<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tanker Industry's Recovery Is Set Back
   By Disruptions and Costs of Gulf Crisis
   ----
   By Daniel Machalaba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Mideast crisis is driving up costs and sharply
reducing revenue for tanker owners, setting back the
industry's three-year recovery.
   Shipping executives say Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and the
embargo of Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil has caused ship-fuel costs
to double, curtailed cargoes, led to overcapacity and shaved
tanker rates between 15% and 20%. Deprived of Iraqi and
Kuwaiti cargo, 30 of the world's largest tankers are now
lined up outside the Persian Gulf, compared with five to 10
normally, according to E.A. Gibson Shipbrokers Ltd., London.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tanker owners expect to realize some relief as other
oil-producing nations, notably Saudi Arabia, boost oil
outflow. But they say it would take several months to work
off the current surplus of big tankers idled outside the
Persian Gulf. Shipowners are less than enthusiastic about the
prospect of increased oil shipments from Venezuela and Mexico
to the U.S., which involve substantially less transportation
than is needed to move oil from the Persian Gulf.
   And tanker executives worry that higher energy prices will
lead to slower economic activity and long-term reduced demand
for ocean transportation. "The world will be long on tankers
for some time to come," said Paul Slater, chairman of First
International Group of Cos., a ship finance and leasing
company in Naples, Fla.
   All this is particularly disappointing to tanker
executives, because it threatens to undermine the industry's
recovery from the prolonged shipping depression that lasted
through the mid-1980s. Tanker-charter rates have increased
solidly in recent years, leading shipowners to place orders
for new tankers. But the Mideast crisis "puts the tanker
industry on a nervous alert again just as it had reached a
period of stability," said Mr. Slater.
   The most significant effect is on the largest tankers, the
so-called very large crude carriers and ultralarge crude
carriers designed to take vast amounts of Mideast oil long
distances -- to Europe, Japan and the U.S. Short-term spot
charter rates for the big ships have dropped to about $12,000
a day from between $15,000 and $18,000 a day earlier in the
summer, according to James Winchester, an analyst at Mabon,
Nugent &amp; Co.
   Meanwhile, bunker fuel prices have climbed to about $140 a
metric ton in Rotterdam from about $90 a few weeks ago.
Insurance costs for tankers operating in the Persian Gulf
have climbed as much as tenfold, reflecting war-risk
premiums.
   "You still cover your operating costs, but not by much,"
said Louis Anderson, president of Papachristidis U.S.A.,
agent for Hellespont Group, which controls 24 tankers. Mr.
Anderson said one big Hellespont tanker will later this week
join the vessels lined up outside the Persian Gulf awaiting
cargo.
   Mr. Anderson said the company is slowing the travel speed
of some tankers to save fuel and, in effect, reduce capacity.
Ship brokers said other tanker companies are putting some
ships in yards for repairs and maintenance. But shipowners
said they are unlikely to mothball their surplus tankers as
long as there is hope that demand for the vessels may
increase.
   The embargo of Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil that has idled
supertankers may prove a boon for medium-sized tankers of
80,000 to 90,000 deadweight tons. Such vessels would be in
greater demand if the flow of oil to the U.S. from Venezuela
and Mexico increases, said one tanker-company executive.
   Harry Wheeler, a director of E.A. Gibson Shipbrokers, said
that historically the tanker market has benefited from world
conflicts. For example, the 1967 closing of the Suez Canal
following the Arab-Israeli war lengthened tanker voyages from
the Mideast to Europe and the U.S., creating a greater demand
for the ships. "For tanker owners, some disasters are
beneficial and others are detrimental," Mr. Wheeler said.
"This one is detrimental because it decreases the supply of
oil and potentially shortens the length of tanker voyages."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A Liberal's Last Thoughts
   ----
   By John H. Fund
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   They were known as the "Watergate babies." The 75
Democrats elected to the House in their party's 1974
landslide represented the arrival of a generation of
idealistic post-New Deal liberals in Congress. They led a
mini-revolution in the House by ousting three powerful
Southern committee chairmen and giving the Democratic Caucus
the power to enforce party discipline. To a remarkable
extent, today's Congress is run by the 50 or so members of
the Class of '74 who haven't been defeated or gone on to
other offices.
   Last week, one of those who lost his seat, Edward Pattison
of New York, became, at age 58, the first Watergate baby to
die of natural causes. Mr. Pattison remained a civil
libertarian and social liberal until his death. But unlike
his colleagues who stayed in office, Mr. Pattison became
increasingly suspicious of governmental intervention in the
economy and appalled at the "bloated beast" he felt Congress
had become.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I first spoke with him in February, when he was already
ill with cancer. I knew he was one of several former
Democratic members backing term limits on Congress. I
expected a pro forma chat when I called him at his home near
Troy, N.Y. Instead, I had the first of several long talks
with a man who had thought deeply about why government no
longer was capable of doing the things he had wanted it to do
while he was in Congress.
   "There are simply a lot of things the government will
never do well," he told me. "The problem neo-liberals have
today is while they want to oppose special-interests, they
are committed to voting more money for some of the most
rigid, unresponsive bureaucracies ever created."
   Ned Pattison was the first Democrat to represent his
upstate New York district since the Civil War. Unlike many of
his Class of '74 colleagues who trimmed their liberal sails,
Mr. Pattison voted a strict liberal line in Congress. That
record, coupled with an admission that he had smoked
marijuana, cost him his seat in 1978. Mr. Pattison didn't
follow the usual course by staying in Washington and lobbying
his former colleagues. He served as a fellow at Harvard's
Kennedy School of Government and then returned home to
practice law.
   Over time he abandoned liberalism and became interested in
Jeffersonian ideas. He found the work of the libertarian Cato
Institute "fascinating." He remained skeptical of
conservatives because he said they had their own ideological
blind spots, namely blank-check spending on dubious military
programs: "They couldn't see the Pentagon was like any other
bureaucracy, the post office with guns."
   A former county official, Mr. Pattison felt the federal
government had grown beyond "human scale" and could
accomplish few of its purported goals. To him, federalism was
an idea to be rescued from dusty history books. He admired
Charles Murray's 1988 book, "In Pursuit of Happiness," which
argues that "little platoons" of communities and voluntary
associations can best handle most social problems.
   Mr. Pattison frequently returned to Washington as chairman
of the Congressional Institute on the Future and to visit the
now-graying Watergate babies. He found friends who were
finally wielding the levers of power, but enjoying it less
and less. "I'd never thought I'd see the House gym so well
used," he said. "A lot of members realize they're engaged in
playacting, merely managing a bureaucratic empire they came
to Washington to change."
   He came to regret the role he played in building up
Congress's power to micromanage the federal government. He
was especially critical of how he and his fellow Watergate
babies perfected the skills of incumbency protection and
constituency service. "There is no justification for
constituency service the way it's done today," he said.
"Members don't act as ombudsmen waiting for people to come to
them; they're out soliciting business. It's a bureaucracy
within a bureaucracy. Over half of the staff works on
constituent service to re-elect their boss."
   Congressional reform was a favorite topic of his. His
1990s version started with limiting members of Congress to 12
years of service. "You wouldn't believe how many members
privately tell me it's a good idea," he said during a
luncheon meeting earlier this year. Other reforms would
include limiting members to one district office, cutting
current staff levels in half and sharply limiting the amount
of franked mail propaganda a member could send out. "I'd
finish up by doing something about the dirty secret of
American politics: gerrymandering," he said with a smile.
   Inspired to enter politics by John F. Kennedy, Mr.
Pattison ended up having little use for his party's leaders.
"I couldn't believe Dick Gephardt and his Japan-bashing," he
said, shaking his head. "Even the White House isn't worth
doing things like that." As for 1988 nominee Michael Dukakis:
"Michael always confused governmental process with progress."
   As we left the country restaurant where we had lunched, I
asked him why he had been so candid. "It's said that a
statesman is a politician who is no longer in office," he
said. "Well, the definition of someone who tells it like it
is could be someone who is soon checking out of life."
   ---
   Mr. Fund is a Journal editorial writer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Jefferson Bankshares Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS JBNK
</CO>
<LP>
   JEFFERSON BANKSHARES Inc. (Charlottesville, Va.) -- John
T. Casteen III, president of the University of Virginia, was
named a director of this bank holding company, succeeding J.
William Price Jr., who died last month at age 73.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manville Acquires
   Assets of Australian
   Carton Manufacturer
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   MVL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Manville Corp. said it acquired the assets of Visypack
Pty., a producer of lithographic folding cartons in
Australia, from Pratt Group, Melbourne, Australia. Manville
Forest Products Corp., a unit of Manville, will operate the
unit.
   A spokeswoman declined to give terms or details. Visypack
had 1989 sales of about US$140 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Manville said its debt covenants required that the company
reinvest proceeds from the sale of its refractory ceramic
fiber business in foreign operations. Manville sold the
refractory fiber business to Morgan Crucible Co. in June.
Terms weren't disclosed, but the company reported a
second-quarter gain of about $20 million from the sale.
   Visypack is the first major acquisition Manville has made
since the company became embroiled in debate over the funding
of the Manville Personal Injury Trust. It indicates that the
company will proceed with its plans to grow by acquisition
and capital improvements.
   The trust, which was set up to pay the company's
asbestos-related health claims after Manville emerged from
bankruptcy-law protection in 1988, has run short of cash.
Some plaintiffs' attorneys have suggested that instead of
employing its $1 billion of cash and unused credit lines to
expand its businesses, Manville should give some of the money
to the trust as a prepayment of its obligations.
   Company officials have argued that the company's growth
and vitality are in the long-term interest of the trust --
which owns about 80% of Manville's stock on a fully diluted
basis -- and its beneficiaries. That growth would be stymied,
Manville executives argue, if the company's assets are used
to pay off trust obligations early rather than build
operating units.
   Visypack, a dominant carton maker in Australia, adds to
the company's growing portfolio of overseas paper products
operations. Manville acquired DRG Cartons Ltd. of Bristol,
England, in April and Fiskeby Board AB of Norrkoping, Sweden,
in June. The company also owns two paper mills and three
container plants in Brazil.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Cargo, Payments Caught in U.S. Freeze on Iraqi Assets
   ---
   Extent Is Unknown, but Firms Tie Up
   Government Phones Seeking Relief
   ----
   By Eugene Carlson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   The U.S. freeze of Iraqi assets has put some small
companies on a roller coaster.
   On Aug. 1, as Iraqi soldiers were massing on Kuwait's
border, a Greek freighter slipped its moorings in
Philadelphia, sailed down the Delaware River and into the
Atlantic. In the freighter's cargo holds was $12.1 million of
tire-making equipment from an Akron, Ohio, company,
NRM-Steelastic Inc., destined for Iraq.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The next day Iraq's troops invaded Kuwait, and President
Bush imposed a trade embargo and asset freeze on Iraq. But
NRM-Steelastic's shipment, then on the high seas, narrowly
escaped the freeze. That's because the company held an
irrevocable letter of credit with the Bank of New York
guaranteeing payment of $12.1 million as soon as the company
received a shipboard bill of lading and the vessel was under
way.
   Had the Iraq-bound ship been scheduled to sail 24 hours
later, after the invasion had begun, NRM-Steelastic doubts it
would have left port. The company's equipment and the $12.1
million payment would have been frozen. "It truly was good
luck," says NRM-Steelastic's Chairman John Vazzana.
   That's the good news.
   The company also has $19 million of additional machinery
pending under the same contract with Iraq's Ministry of Heavy
Industry. Much of this equipment has already been produced,
but it can't be shipped because of the asset freeze. The
remaining order accounts for nearly one-sixth of
NRM-Steelastic's $120 million backlog. "I think it's safe to
say that this is going to hurt our earnings by 15% to 20% for
the year. That's very painful," says Mr. Vazzana, adding: "We
have no employees in Iraq, thank God."
   War can play havoc with large and small companies trying
to earn a profit on foreign trade. Diversified big companies
can often absorb a trade-related loss that might cripple
smaller companies.
   It's unclear how many companies have been burned by
sanctions stemming from the Persian Gulf crisis. But the buzz
of activity around the Treasury Department's office of
foreign assets control, which is reviewing requests from U.S.
companies for relief from effects of the asset freeze,
indicates that a number of U.S. companies are being affected.
   "Their lines are busy every time I call," says Ronald
Soberay, executive vice president of Cleveland-based Soberay
Machine Equipment Co. "We finally sent them a letter." His
company, a supplier along with NRM-Steelastic to a nearly
completed Iraqi truck-tire factory, had crates full of
controls for rubber-mixing machinery sitting on a pier in
Newport News, Va., when the freeze was imposed. The machinery
is still there.
   Counting the Aug. 1 shipment, NRM-Steelastic has so far
sent $30 million of tire-building machines and curing presses
to the factory near Najaf, 100 miles south of Baghdad. The
assembly plant, engineered by Britain's Dunlop Holdings PLC
and under construction for two years, will have a capacity of
167,000 tires a month, nearly doubling Iraq's
tire-manufacturing potential.
   Meanwhile, NRM-Steelastic is holding the bag for the
undelivered part of the Iraqi order. "The entire $19 million
is in limbo," says Mr. Vazzana. "We're diverting some of the
equipment to other companies and basically trying to deal
with the situation."
   The Iraqi crisis also puts a cloud over NRM-Steelastic's
first public stock offering. The company has been counting on
raising about $40 million through a 3.3 million-share
offering in September. Mr. Vazzana's assessment after a
telephone conference this week with the company's investment
adviser, Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette: "We haven't given up
hope. We're going to look at where we stand after Labor Day."
   Privately held NRM-Steelastic had sales of $117 million in
the fiscal year ended March 31, up from $100 million and $62
million in the previous two years. Nearly 90% of its business
is related to tire manufacturing and about half of its sales
are exports. Foreign trade is "the heartbeat of our company,"
Mr. Vazzana says.
   In Cleveland, Mr. Soberay and his brother, Thaddeus,
co-owners of the small Soberay rubber processing equipment
company, say they are amazed to be getting daily telex
messages from Iraq inquiring: "When are your people going to
be here? When is the shipment going to arrive?"
   Ronald Soberay adds: "We just look at each other and shrug
our shoulders." The frozen shipment, valued at about
$600,000, was the final component of Soberay's $10.5 million
contract with the Najaf factory. "We're not happy about it,
but it could be worse," says Thaddeus Soberay.
   Asked for his advice to small companies exporting to
politically volatile regions, NRM-Steelastic's Mr. Vazzana
says, "You always do business on an irrevocable letter of
credit confirmed on a U.S. bank. It surely saved us from a
very bad debt situation."
   In hindsight, Mr. Vazzana says even safer would be tying
export financing to a truck bill of lading, meaning payment
is guaranteed when a shipment leaves a plant's loading dock.
   As for the tire-making machinery in the Greek freighter,
Mr. Vazzana says, "My understanding is they're pulling into a
Greek port and they're going to sit there until they figure
out what to do."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Michael Baker Unit in Germany
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   BKR
</CO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Michael Baker Corp. said it established a
subsidiary in Frankfurt am Main, West Germany, to serve
Baker's interests in Europe for architectural, engineering
and other services. The architectural engineering company
said it is experiencing a growing market in Europe for its
services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Energy Tax Credit
   For Alternatives
   Weighed by U.S.
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld and Alan Murray
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A tax credit for alternative energy
investments is on a list of proposals being considered at the
White House for reducing the nation's dependence on imported
oil.
   The administration hasn't yet decided whether to endorse
this or other proposals on the list, which was produced by
the Energy Department and is circulating among other
agencies. A package could be unveiled as early as next week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposals are more substantive -- and controversial --
than a set of steps the department announced earlier this
month following the disruption of Mideast oil imports. That
plan, which called for such measures as putting more air in
automobile tires and increasing car-pooling, was essentially
ignored by the White House and roundly dismissed as
inadequate by conservation groups.
   The latest proposals include renewing the administration's
push to persuade Congress to open up the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge in Alaska for oil exploration and urging
consumers to use gasoline with lower octane ratings. The
administration also apparently plans to report progress in
mediating a California environmental dispute that is blocking
the production of 200 million to 300 million barrels of oil.
   In addition, the administration has said it will repropose
various tax incentives for oil drilling that were included in
its budget proposal last January. These include changes that
would reduce the burden of the alternative minimum tax on
producers.
   Such incentives, while strongly supported in the oil
industry, would face an uphill battle in this time of
swelling budget deficits. The tax changes aimed at the
industry in the budget were estimated to cost $300 million in
the fiscal year starting Oct. 1.
   And while an alternative-energy tax credit could help make
any package more acceptable to environmental groups, it's
certain to draw fire from tax experts who contend that such
measures typically don't spur enough additional investment to
warrant their steep budgetary cost.
   Meanwhile, fears that the Mideast situation would lead to
a renewed push on the Alaska wilderness have already touched
off vigorous lobbying by environmental groups. The oil
industry, for its part, is likely to oppose steps to reduce
sales of its lucrative high-octane fuels, although Ed
Rothschild, head of a Washington lobbying group on consumer
and labor issues, contended that reducing the average octane
level of all U.S. gasoline by a single point would save
140,000 barrels of oil a day. Octane measures the anti-knock
capacity of gasoline.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Travellers Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   ATVC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN TRAVELLERS Corp. (Warrington, Pa.) -- John T.
Riordan, formerly a senior manager with Arthur Andersen &amp;
Co., was named president and chief operating officer of this
insurance concern. Mr. Riordan, 45 years old, takes on some
of the responsibilities of John A. Powell, who remains
chairman and chief executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Tultex Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   TTX WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   TULTEX Corp. (Martinsville, Va.) -- John M. Franck,
37-year-old president of this apparel maker, was elected
chairman and chief executive officer, effective Jan. 1,
succeeding H. Richard Hunnicut, 51, who is to retire. Charles
W. Davies Jr., 42, executive vice president, will succeed Mr.
Franck as president, also Jan. 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada's Pig Herd Declines
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada's pig herd declined 2.1% to 10,532,000 at
July 1 from 10,763,000 a year earlier, Statistics Canada, a
federal agency, said.
   Cattle and calves totaled 12,286,800 head at July 1, a
0.7% increase from 12,199,100 a year earlier. Beef cows
totaled 3,590,900, a 2.9% increase from 3,488,500 a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   New Magazines Offer `Real' Guy Stuff
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB NWS
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   The New Age, '80s-something, salad-eating, sensitive guy
is dead. Long live the bimbo, male and female.
   The proof? Take a look at two new magazines for men
hitting the newsstands next week. They are part of this
summer's dizzying Invasion of the Men's Magazines. Think
ESPN, guns, bikinis and high-priced stereo equipment. Guy
stuff.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Magazine publishers couldn't have picked a worse time to
bring to life their visions of magazines for men. Magazine
circulation is eroding, and national advertisers are being
stingy with already constricted ad budgets. Advertisers
didn't ask for new magazines for men; many feel men get what
they need from skin, car and sports books. Some cynics think
the new men's magazines are simply a way of whistling past
the graveyard.
   From Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. comes Men's Life, billed
as a "one-stop read for men leading real lives," says Barry
Golson, editor of Men's Life and a former editor at Playboy
magazine. "Magazines have been generally edited in a very
highfalutin way. There's a universe of regular guys out there
who will relate to a magazine that is friendly and
accessible."
   In the premier issue that hits newsstands nationwide Sept.
4, Men's Life wastes no time getting "real." There's a look
inside the terrorist gang of Abu Nidal, a profile of major
league baseball pitcher Dennis Eckersley, a story on why men
love blondes, a photo essay on five sultry TV actresses and
an "investigative report" on whether bikinis are getting too
small. There's even a broadside aimed at the "Sensitive Man."
"It's a fraud," writes contributing editor Mike Kelly. "I
don't even know any women who want to know New {read:
Sensitive} Men." Now they tell us.
   From Fairchild Publications Inc., a unit of Capital
Cities/ABC Inc., comes M Inc. Not strictly a new magazine, M
Inc. is the product of grafting together the defunct
Manhattan inc. with Fairchild's M magazine.
   Manhattan inc. loved power people and heralded the
boom-time 1980s of New York; M loved submarine commanders,
jet pilots, Kennedy Democrats, Bush Republicans and blood
sports. Reconstituted as a fashion/business/life style
magazine, M Inc. is still not for salad-eaters, and it may be
the unexpected hit.
   Combining the long, thorough journalism of Manhattan inc.
and the playful spirit of the old M, M Inc. casts an
upperclass eye on the hearty appetites of men. There's a
story on the joys of sporting clays (the European version of
skeet shooting) and the super-fast Callaway Corvette. M
Inc.'s list of the "Power Brokers" includes the usual
suspects, but has some fun, referring to S.I. Newhouse as
"Lord High Executioner" and including New York political
provocateur Al Sharpton.
   Advertisers may not have clamored for the Invasion of
Men's Magazines, but they're getting it anyway. Conde Nast
Publications Inc. has unveiled a jazzy remake of the night
club magazine Details for young men, Norris Publishing is
planning to publish Men magazine beginning in early 1991, and
an as-yet-unnamed title from Rolling Stone publisher Jan
Wenner is on the drawing board. Don't forget launches of
recent years, Rodale Press's Men's Health and New American
Magazine Co.'s Smart.
   Despite the rush, the advertising outlook couldn't be more
dismal. Core advertisers in men's magazines, primarily
automobiles, tobacco, liquor, menswear and consumer
electronics, have slashed or restricted their ad budgets for
magazines. Ad pages are down for the first half of 1990 at
Sports Illustrated, Gentlemen's Quarterly, Playboy, even
Popular Mechanics and Sports Afield.
   Both Men's Life and M Inc. have had some good news on this
front. Men's Life had an unimpressive 30 ad pages in the
first issue -- especially since new magazines regularly offer
advertisers bargain rates -- but it has snagged hard-to-get
ad commitments from the three major tobacco companies. M Inc.
did have an impressive start, a 316-page issue with 155 ad
pages, and while entertaining, its hybrid style could be
confusing to advertisers.
   The most important hurdle will be finding and keeping
readers, a difficult task in any climate. Magazines must now
spend millions they often don't recover to build a subscriber
base. As for single-copy sales, the thinking goes that men
buy disposable razors at checkout stands and newspapers at
newsstands, but never enough magazines. Statistics prove
women are still the heaviest buyers of magazines.
   An Audit Bureau of Circulations report released earlier
this month made clear that single-copy sales -- mostly made
at supermarket checkouts, newsstands, convenience and drug
stores -- were falling steadily. Excluding Playboy and
Penthouse, all of the 20 top-selling magazines on newsstands
in 1989 were women's fashion or service magazines, or ones
that could claim a heavy female readership.
   "I don't see anything that shows men are buying more
magazines at newsstands," says Dan Capell, publisher of
Capell's Circulation Report, an industry newsletter. "Go into
any supermarket, I defy you to find a male title in any of
those checkout racks."
   Whether or not the new crop of men's magazines survives,
the category itself has taken a new turn. Lee Eisenberg, as
editor of Hearst Corp.'s Esquire, helped define the New Man
of the 1980s. Now, as he leaves to edit the British Esquire,
he sees another change.
   "The man we gave voice to {in the 1980s} was one who was
still working things out," says Mr. Eisenberg. "What's
happened now is not that we have become throwbacks to our
father's generation, but that the questions have been
answered. We know how to express our masculinity."
   ---
   Vacation Viewers
                                                                                                       

   In its latest attempt to show that more people watch
television than A.C. Nielsen counts, ABC yesterday said a
survey it commissioned shows most Americans watch TV while on
vacation.
   ABC said the study, conducted by Bruskin Associates, found
that nearly eight out of 10 vacationers, or an estimated 62
million adults, watch TV. Some watch as much as three hours a
day on vacation, the network said.
   The study is the latest in a series of network surveys
showing that large numbers of people watch TV away from home,
in such settings as bars and college campuses. Figures from
Nielsen, which only tracks viewing at home, indicate viewers
have been leaving network TV in droves.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Fans Haunt U.S. Singer's French Grave
   ----
   By Andrew Blum and Patricia Crisafulli
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<LP>
   Paris -- In the dingy Belleville section of Paris, several
miles from the Champs Elysees, a young blond American knelt
at the simple gravesite of Jim Morrison. She wrote something
in black felt-tip pen on the singer's graffiti-covered
headstone, took a sip from a can of beer and passed the pen
to a fellow groupie, asking if he, too, wanted to leave a
message. With virtually no room left on Morrison's grave, his
fans, over the years, have taken to writing their tributes to
the lead singer of The Doors on nearby tombs, many of which
look like tiny stone houses with pitched roofs and stained
glass windows.
   Such reverence for their idol, or irreverence for the
dead, if you will, has not met with approval from the
families of those buried nearby, whose graves have been
marked with epitaphs such as "Jim, we love you" and "Jim, we
are near."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the observer stumbling upon this scene, it is an
enigma. It seems straight out of a Vincent Price horror movie
and is, well, at the least, unsettling. But it's also an
amazing phenomenon surrounding a 27-year-old musician from
Los Angeles who died in 1971 of uncertain causes that have
been linked, unofficially, to his alcohol and drug use.
Through his words and music, which obviously have appeal
beyond his time, Morrison has taken on a near cult status,
even to the point of being the subject of an upcoming film by
Academy Award-winning director Oliver Stone.
   His movie, "The Doors," which a spokeswoman for the
director said is about Morrison's era, as well as his life,
is due out next spring. Val Kilmer, who co-starred in "Top
Gun" with Tom Cruise, plays Morrison, and Meg Ryan, star of
"When Harry Met Sally," plays Morrison's late wife, Pamela.
The group's drummer, John Densmore, a consultant to the film,
also has just published "Rider in the Storm: My Life With Jim
Morrison and The Doors" (Delacorte), a memoir that begins
with his unhappy visit to the grave.
   But in Pere Lachaise cemetery, named for Louis XIV's
confessor, one thing is sure: This is not Graceland and the
people who come to see Morrison's grave aren't Elvis fans.
   Jim Morrison is not the only notable in this cemetery. It
also is the final resting place for composer Frederic Chopin,
Honore de Balzac, Oscar Wilde, Edith Piaf, Marcel Proust and
Sarah Bernhardt. But there aren't any groupies at their
graves. As far as the Morrison fans are concerned, Jim is the
only star in this 110-acre stairway to heaven.
   Throughout this quiet, leafy cemetery, crisscrossed by
cobblestone paths and filled with huge sepulchers, one day
this summer were homemade signs pointing the way to
Morrison's grave; no matter that some had been scratched in
the side of somebody else's tomb.
   Although many of the fans at his grave were barely born
when Morrison was in his musical heyday -- with songs such as
"Touch Me," "Light My Fire," "Love Me Two Times" and "Riders
on the Storm" -- and though he was found guilty in 1970 of
indecent exposure and profanity after a concert in Miami, his
legend just keeps growing.
   Not everyone has been thrilled with Morrison's popularity,
even though his gravesite is hardly a secret. (Cemetery maps,
marking the graves of the famous, which are intermingled with
the tombs of the not-so-notable, are sold for about $2 at a
flower shop next door.)
   Morrison's grave is the "most visited at Pere Lachaise,"
according to administrator Jean-Jacques Le Forestier. Asked
about attempts by families of those buried nearby to have
Morrison's body moved elsewhere, Mr. Le Forestier quickly
dismisses this as something that happened "in the past." Now,
Morrison's final resting place is secured, perhaps aided by
an agreement with the singer's family to help purchase a
machine, for an undisclosed sum, to clean the graffiti off
neighboring graves. The machine, just recently arrived, "is
working very well," Mr. Le Forestier noted.
   "It was Mr. Morrison's wish to stay in Paris. His family
is going to honor that wish and so is the City of Paris," he
added.
   Although the hoopla surrounding Morrison and The Doors
might seem hard for some to grasp, it is no surprise to New
York City DJ Dave Herman, who said he was one of the first
people to announce the death of the rock star in 1971.
   "The Doors are unique in the fact that their popularity
never waned," said Mr. Herman, who hosts the Dave Herman Rock
'n' Roll Morning Show on WNEW-FM. "It's ongoing," he noted,
adding their music is played as much on the radio now as it
was in their heyday.
   The Doors' records sales continue to be "amazing,"
according to an Elektra Records spokeswoman. This year alone,
The Doors are expected to sell 650,000 records. The group's
"Best of The Doors" album, released in 1973, has sold 10
million copies.
   Listening again to the music of The Doors, these songs,
with sexual innuendos that bothered the likes of Ed Sullivan
when the band once performed on his show, are tame by today's
standards. But even an inexpert listener can find in
Morrison's lyrics the voices of those turbulent times.
   And in Pere Lachaise cemetery, it's as if Morrison is
alive again and his fans have picked up on his poetry. One
message, scrawled across a neighboring tomb, was written in
Russian; other messages were like notes to an old friend:
"Jim, see you. Don't know where"; "We live in Morrison
Hotel"; "God bless Jim and The Doors"; "Mr. Mo-Jo Rising";
"Jim Morrison, Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin, forever"; "Come
Back"; "Thanks for your music"; and "Seasoned Sleeper, sleep
well."
   When Morrison died of a heart attack in a bathtub in
Paris, his death was kept secret for nearly a week, according
to Rolling Stone Rock Almanac, in an attempt to avoid "the
circus-like atmosphere that surrounded the deaths of Janis
Joplin and Jimi Hendrix." But Morrison's fans, it seems,
wouldn't be robbed of a chance to pay their own special kind
of grave tributes, and no graffiti-cleaning machine is likely
to take that away from them.
   ---
   Mr. Blum is a reporter for the National Law Journal. Ms.
Crisafulli is an associate editor at McGraw-Hill Publications
Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Johnston Treads Warily in Trying to Defuse
   Opponent's Populist Movement in Louisiana...
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   THIBODAUX, La. -- Sometimes Sen. Bennett Johnston can't
contain himself anymore. Sometimes he just can't keep from
talking about his chief Republican opponent, David Duke.
   "The forces of lightness and darkness are so juxtaposed,"
the three-term conservative Democrat blurts out at the end of
his sleepy stump speech here. "I may not be much," he says,
"but the other side is pretty bad."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Duke is certainly no ordinary adversary. A former
grand wizard of the Knights of Ku Klux Klan and founder of
the National Association for the Advancement of White People,
the telegenic young state legislator probably commands a
quarter of the vote in the state -- and maybe more.
   Sen. Johnston is clearly torn about how to deal with Mr.
Duke. He wants to avoid lending credibility and recognition
to him by attacking him by name. On the other hand,
disclosing facts about Mr. Duke's extremist activities could
well be the only effective way to defuse what some here see
as the most potent populist movement in the state since Huey
Long.
   "It's risky either way," says Paul Lewis, a
political-science professor at Tulane University.
   No one thinks the 40-year-old Mr. Duke will defeat Sen.
Johnston, at 58 one of the Senate's most powerful members, in
the Oct. 6 open primary. The issue is whether Mr. Duke can
finish second while he and state Sen. Ben Bagert, the other,
lesser-known Republican candidate, hold Sen. Johnston to less
than 50% of the vote. That would set up a Johnston-Duke race
in November -- and raise the challenger's political profile
to national scope.
   "This race," Sen. Johnston concludes, "is about the
legitimization of David Duke."
   In most public appearances and in his television
commercials, Sen. Johnston all but ignores Mr. Duke. Like
many incumbents, Sen. Johnston and his backers assert that
his seniority wins many benefits -- jobs in particular -- for
the folks back home.
   Sometimes, though, Mr. Johnston deviates from this
kid-glove strategy to disparage his rival, at least
indirectly. In his basic stump speech, for example, he talks
obliquely about his "crusade" for "unity" and "opportunity,"
and warns that businesses will shun the state if it votes
wrong in this race.
   In interviews, Sen. Johnston can be more blunt. Mr. Duke
has "a very dangerous message for the United States," he
says. "His campaign is Johnny one-note, it's all about race."
Nazism, Mr. Johnston adds, "is the lens through which you can
interpret his whole life."
   In a state famous for colorful politicians and spicy food,
Sen. Johnston is as bland as oatmeal. To enliven his
appearances, he campaigns for a while alongside the Cajun
firecracker of Louisiana politics these days, John Breaux,
the junior senator. At Avery Island, Sen. Johnston is
presented with a gallon of Tabasco sauce. "It's a six-month
supply," he exclaims. "A six-week supply," Sen. Breaux
quickly corrects him.
   The sandy-haired, handsome Mr. Duke could hardly be less
like Sen. Johnston. As soft-spoken and well-spoken in person
and on television as he is electrifying in front of a crowd,
Mr. Duke has attracted an energetic and loyal following.
   "We just love him; we're almost like groupies," says Betty
Whitehead, a retired Shreveport schoolteacher at a Duke rally
in Mansfield. Adds Frank Wamble, another Shreveport
supporter: "He says what we're all scared to death to say."
   Mr. Duke's message is geared to appeal to the economically
frustrated, a category of people who are numerous in this
long-depressed state. He rages against government and what he
characterizes as its elitist insiders like Sen. Johnston. He
doesn't specifically talk about blacks or Jews, but glorifies
"Christian values" and takes special aim at
"affirmative-action programs" and "the welfare state" --
terms his enemies charge he uses as racist code words.
   Mr. Duke disclaims as youthful indiscretion much of his
past, including the time he wore a Nazi uniform at a college
demonstration. But evidence of his leanings linger. In a
taped interview with a student last November, he said he
believed that "nationality comes from genes," that whites
have higher IQs and that the U.S. shouldn't have entered
World War II.
   Just last year, Beth Rickey, a member of the state GOP
central committee, publicized her purchase of several
neo-Nazi books and videotapes from the book business Mr. Duke
runs out of his home. Of the 91 titles listed in a 1988
advertisement for the company in the NAAWP's newsletter, 25
appear to be about Jews, Hitler or Germany.
   Some of Mr. Duke's own pseudonymous writings also haunt
his campaign. There was "African Atto," a tome that purports
to be a street-fighting manual for black militants that Mr.
Duke wrote under the name Mohammed X in the early 1970s.
Using another alias, Mr. Duke also wrote "Finders-Keepers:
Finding and Keeping the Man You Want," a how-to manual
offering women tips on everything from how to dress
attractively to how to perform oral sex. "It was a little
racy," Mr. Duke concedes, quickly adding, "I'd better not use
that word."
   His own Republican Party has "excommunicated" him,
according to Wendy DeMocker, spokeswoman for the Republican
Senatorial Campaign Committee. "We will not speak to him,"
she says. "We will not take his phone calls. He is the
ultimate snake-oil salesman. He is attempting to fool people
with his disguised message."
   Still, Sen. Johnston is taking him seriously -- a tack
that is considered wise across the state. In St. Charles
Parish, 79-year-old Blanche Kugler hands the senator what she
calls a lucky bean to keep in his pocket. "He's going to need
it," she says. "Duke is getting up."
   (See related story: "Politics &amp; Policy: ...While Foe,
Duke, May Be Aiming To Fund National Right-Wing Machine" --
WSJ Aug. 29, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Media Stock Investors Looking for Profits
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX PCI TCOMA LINB MCAWA VIA CMCSA ATCMA CCN CCB MCA DIS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Just because some of Wall Street's media
wizards persist in valuing Time Warner stock at around 200,
skeptics say, that doesn't mean it's a screaming buy at 79
3/8.
   Nowadays investors want to see good old-fashioned
corporate profits, and that's a big shift on the media scene.
Many stocks being touted today as cheap asset plays are
overpriced as ordinary investments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   During the 1980s merger frenzy, investors bought shares
such as Time Warner, Paramount Communications and
Tele-Communications for their "asset values." They bet that
acquirers would soon pay crazy prices for media companies and
make shareholders very rich. But now it's a new ball game.
   "The market is shifting toward earnings as a benchmark of
value," says Mario Gabelli, unofficial leader of what he
calls the "media mafia," a group of hot money managers who
made a fortune in the 1980s by betting on buy-outs of movie
and cable television companies.
   In the past year, as deal mania subsided, media stocks
have fallen by roughly 25%, and some people think they could
go lower. The go-go media investors of the 1980s are hurting,
including Mr. Gabelli, Morris Mark and Harvey Sandler.
   "If I catch lightning in a bottle, that's great," says
analyst Emanuel Gerard of Gerard Klauer Mattison in New York,
referring to the outside chance of more media deals at high
prices. But "I wouldn't pay a nickel for assets."
   What's more, Mr. Gerard says, the most he would pay today
for any movie stock is an average market multiple of, say, 14
times the company's estimated 1991 profit. That sounds
heretical to some, because movie stocks are glamorous and
used to sell at premium multiples. But Mr. Gerard, who worked
many years for Time Warner, thinks the industry will remain
in "a crunch period" for the next year or two. Revenue is
growing more slowly, he says, while costs for films such as
Walt Disney's "Dick Tracy" and Paramount's "The Two Jakes"
have rocketed.
   Earlier this year, Mr. Gerard rightly told clients to dump
media stocks. Now, he thinks MCA might be "worth a shot"
below 40; it was at 41 3/4 yesterday. Common shares of Time
Warner, which has loads of debt and no earnings, aren't
compelling yet, he says, though "there's some price where
your gut says buy the thing." Nor is he tempted by Paramount,
at 35 5/8.
   Shares of cable and some cellular phone companies, also
slaughtered in the recent sell-off, are a roll of the dice,
some investors say. Like Time Warner, many other cable
concerns have tons of debt and no earnings. They also are
facing regulation and more competition, so investors aren't
sure how much cash their operations will throw off in coming
years.
   This sea change in the way investors value media shares
caught many hot money managers off guard. Investors who buy
stocks on margin, using credit, have been hardest hit.
   Harvey Sandler of Sandler Associates in New York says his
clients this year basically gave back all the profits he made
for them in 1989. Accounts he manages are down 25% to 45%
this year, thanks to big holdings of Tele-Communications, LIN
Broadcasting, McCaw Cellular Communications, Viacom and
Comcast.
   Mr. Sandler, who runs about $400 million, says 1990 is
only his second down year in 10 years; in 1987, a rough year
for the market, his clients were up 30% to 70%. He is
sticking with his shares of cable and cellular companies
because their businesses are doing well, even if their stocks
aren't, he says; "I have never tried to guess the stock
market."
   The Gabelli Value Fund has fallen 9% in the past four
weeks, and 13% this year. This fund raked in more than $1
billion from investors last September when it was launched
with fanfare and a 5.5% load charge. It has mega-stakes in
Paramount, MCA and other media stocks. The smaller, no-load
Gabelli Asset Fund is off 11% this year; by comparison,
growth-stock funds measured by the Lipper Growth Fund Index
have fallen about 7%.
   After a string of good years from 1977 through 1989, Mr.
Gabelli says, "This year is my first down year." Through
Gamco Investors, Mr. Gabelli runs about $6 billion.
   At Mark Partners, another once-hot manager, Mr. Mark, who
runs about $400 million, says his accounts this year are down
about as much as the overall market. He holds a lot of Walt
Disney and also cellular and cable stocks. "I'm not having
fun this quarter," Mr. Mark says, though he insists he never
bought stocks solely on asset values. In 1989, he says his
investment partners were up about 70%.
   In the 1980s, "these managers were in the right place at
the right time," says analyst Mr. Gerard. Now they're in the
wrong place, he says, but "the hardest thing is to recognize
a sea change in values."
   At Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette, analyst Dennis Leibowitz
won a huge following for his research on media assets. But in
the past year, he touted Time Warner, Capital Cities/ABC and
cable stocks all the way down as they cratered.
   Last October, Mr. Leibowitz, like many analysts, told
clients to buy Time Warner, then trading at 40% of estimated
asset value. The stock then was at 134 7/8, 55 points higher
than it is now.
   In April, Mr. Leibowitz recommended Tele-Communications,
then selling at 56% of "private market value," or the price
an acquirer might pay for the company. The stock then was at
13 3/4; after sinking as low as 9 1/2, it was at 10 3/8
yesterday. In May, Mr. Leibowitz said Comcast, at 41% of
asset value, was a buy. Since then, the stock has slid to 11
from 14 1/8.
   Mr. Leibowitz concedes that investors now "are looking for
something else" to value cable stocks by, not just assets.
"I'm going to start putting cash flows on the front of every
cable report," he says.
   Cable shares now are real bargains, Mr. Leibowitz adds.
Cash flow in the cable business is building and will allow
many companies to start paying their big debts, he says;
American Television &amp; Communications should even report a
profit in 1991.
   Many analysts still are singing the old tune about assets.
Barry Kaplan of Goldman Sachs earlier this month recommended
Tele-Communications and Comcast, which he said were trading
at "large discounts to conservative private market values."
   Money manager Mr. Gabelli takes credit for coining the
term, "private market value." He says he first used it when,
as an analyst in the 1970s, he wrote a report on Houdaille,
later taken private by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts.
   Recently, he has raised his stakes in Chris-Craft
Industries and Paramount though, despite the rumors, "I don't
think Herb Siegel {who runs Chris-Craft} will buy Paramount."
He also has been buying MCA, below 40, and Time Warner. "I'm
convinced that a war {in the Middle East} would make these
companies even more attractive," Mr. Gabelli says;
export-oriented entertainment concerns would benefit by
translating foreign earnings into more dollars as the
currency weakened.
   Last week, analyst David Londoner of Wertheim Schroder
recommended Time Warner common. He has been rightly bearish
on the stock till now. Based on average cash flow multiples
for movie stocks in the 1980s, he says Time Warner looks
cheap and "deserves" to trade at 110 or more.
   But are the 1980s a good guide? Not unless movie companies
quickly find a new formula for coining money, say, selling
films to consumers on video disks, says analyst Mr. Gerard.
He thinks it could be time for the industry to rein in costs.
In 1980, making and marketing the average film cost less than
$14 million, Mr. Gerard says; now, it's more like $40
million.
   Mr. Gabelli says that last year he foresaw the end of the
deal era. Asked why he didn't unload media shares, he says he
sometimes holds big stakes in companies for five or 10 years.
"My approach to investing is, you stick with your husband
even if he has problems."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Everex Systems Buys Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   EVRX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FREMONT, Calif. -- Everex Systems Inc. said it agreed to
purchase the assets of Integrated Office Systems Corp., a
computer reseller in Gaithersburg, Md.
   Terms of the transaction weren't disclosed. Everex said
the assets of Integrated Office included contracts to sell
government agencies about $200 million of computers and
related equipment over the next five years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   How the Europeans Do It
   ----
   By Angus Sibley
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   To Americans who have enjoyed the protection of federal
deposit insurance since the 1930s, it may seem strange that,
until quite recently, such explicit guarantees were rare in
Europe. As recently as 1987, only six of the 12 European
Community countries specifically promised to reimburse
depositors of insolvent commercial banks. Today three EC
members (Ireland, Greece and Portugal) still lack this cover,
but an enabling act is before the Irish parliament, and the
others will follow, under pressure from the European
Commission.
   Germany's is the oldest of the EC's existing schemes. It
was set up in 1966, then strengthened and extended after the
Herstatt failure of 1974. But the principle of bank
protection is, of course, far older. In Germany, more than
500 local Sparkassen (savings banks) have historically been
backed by city or county authorities, which have legal
obligations to ensure that their associated banks remain
viable.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Britain, where there have been no large-scale bank
failures in more than a century, the Bank of England relied
until 1982 on careful supervision of a not very competitive
oligopoly, combined with willingness to act in extremis as
lender of last resort.
   In France it was official policy for many years, up till
the middle 1960s, to restrain competition between banks, with
a view to avoiding erosion of their profits and consequent
enfeeblement. National deposit insurance was introduced in
1980.
   Traditionally, guarantees by European governments, central
banks or banking associations have been implicit and
unspecific. It was widely felt that explicit guarantees were
unnecessary, and possibly harmful since they could encourage
imprudence -- an argument championed by Franklin Roosevelt
and, some would say, vindicated by the recent history of U.S.
thrifts.
   The arrival in Europe of explicit though limited
guarantees thus marks a retreat from traditional practice.
However, formal guarantees can have a very helpful influence
on depositors' behavior. They discourage panic withdrawals,
which could be based on baseless rumor, or on pessimism
unjustified unless self-fulfilling.
   Europe's guarantee schemes provide limited cover for each
depositor, generally excluding interbank and other wholesale
deposits. But the German commercial bank scheme is
exceptional in that each depositor is covered for up to 30%
of a bank's equity capital, as shown in its latest published
accounts. Maximum cover per depositor thus exceeds 1.5% of
the bank's total loan book, which is restricted to 18 times
equity. Few customers would hold deposits bigger than this in
any one bank; in practice, therefore, cover is virtually
unlimited.
   Elsewhere, guarantees are more or less tightly restricted.
In most countries, a large customer thus stands to lose
heavily from a bank's failure, unless the government or
central bank sees fit to supplement the guaranteed indemnity.
When Herstatt failed, the German banking association set up
an emergency fund to reimburse small depositors, but bigger
creditors lost up to 55% of their money. It remains prudent
for corporate customers to observe the caveat emptor rule: To
help them, specialist rating agencies are consequently
becoming more widespread in Europe.
   In the U.S., the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was
set up in 1934. Comparable bodies in other OECD countries
date from the 1960s or later. America's early conversion to
the practice of deposit insurance reflects its banks' extreme
trauma in the early 1930s, but also the fact that insurance
schemes are inherently best suited to a fragmented banking
system.
   Paradoxically, large banks are the biggest contributors to
guarantee schemes by which they themselves could not hope to
be rescued if it came to the crunch. While U.S. banks
contribute around $2 billion a year to the FDIC, some leading
money center banks have domestic deposits of $25 billion or
more. Annual contributions by German commercial banks to the
Deposit Security Fund are estimated at less than $65 million;
each of the "big three" has deposits of more than $50
billion. The French scheme, designed to cover claims of up to
about $77,000, clearly aims only to rescue customers of the
smallest banks.
   In fact, deposit-protection schemes are not set up to cope
with the insolvency of a major bank, for which other remedies
would be needed. In several European countries this is
recognized by capping scheme contributions, so that the
biggest banks do not pay in full proportion to their size.
   One beneficial effect of deposit protection is achieved
even when a country's banking system stays trouble-free.
Guarantees are of abiding value to small banks that might
otherwise be considered less secure than the big names. This
appearance may be deceptive. A tiny bank may well have better
control over its affairs than a sprawling giant. Nevertheless
the fact remains that it has limited asset diversity, and the
perception remains that it could conceivably be allowed to
evaporate, while the giant could not.
   In Spain the Deposit Guarantee Fund, established in 1977,
not only insures deposits but also has powers to acquire
troubled banks for liquidation or resale. Many foreign
banking groups have gained a foothold in Spain by buying
rescued banks from the fund. In Germany the private
commercial banking sector embraces more than 200 independent
banks and, according to one senior official, "the Deposit
Security Fund is designed to up hold the diversity of the
private banking system."
   Why is Europe, increasingly a continent of few but large
banks, adopting habits that seem more apt for the U.S.?
Clearly one reason is the desire of consumers for fuller
protection and indemnity across the board. Another is that
for various reasons, including consumer pressure, European
banks now live in a much more competitive environment than
they did a quarter-century ago. These tougher conditions
erode the margins of safety in banking operations. Today the
banker's temptation is to enhance profits through riskier
activities. Many argue that guarantees strengthen this
temptation by insulating customers from the risks. Could
Europe's new safeguards facilitate debacles like those of the
U.S. thrifts?
   It seems unlikely. From 1934 until the recent disasters,
FSLIC insured thrift deposits with few untoward effects. It
was only after 1980 that passengers slipped between the
unmoored boat of deposit rates and the dock of fixed-rate
mortgages; while 1980s supervisory procedures could not
handle far-reaching changes in the thrifts' business methods.
   Across Europe, banking like other business sectors has
tended to coalesce into fewer bigger companies. Within the
Community, cross-border integration seems likely to carry
this trend further. But a directive on its way from Brussels
will soon require all 12 countries to maintain deposit
protection schemes. These will offer reassurance and enhance
confidence in an age of volatility. They should also
encourage the independent survival of small local banks, even
as their bigger brethren continue to merge.
   ---
   Mr. Sibley is a member of the International Stock Exchange
and the Society of Investment Analysts in London.
   ---
                    Sound as a Krone...
                                                                                                       

        Deposit Insurance in the European Community
                                                                                                       

  UPPER LIMIT                                 APPROXIMATE
  PER DEPOSITOR                           U.S. EQUIVALENT
                                                                                                       

  Belgium         500,000 Francs                $15,000
                                                                                                       

  Britain         75% first 20,000 Pounds        29,000
                                                                                                       

  Denmark         250,000 Krone                  42,000
                                                                                                       

  France          400,000 Francs                 77,000
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

  Greece          No plan yet
                                                                                                       

  Ireland         80% first 5,000 punts          13,000
   proposed:      70% next 5,000 punts
                  50% next 5,000 punts
                                                                                                       

  Italy           100% first 200m Lire          696,000
                  75% next 800m Lire
                                                                                                       

  Luxembourg      500,000 Francs                 15,000
                                                                                                       

  Netherlands     40,000 Guilders                23,000
                                                                                                       

  Portugal        No plan yet
                                                                                                       

  Spain           1,500,000 Pesetas              15,000
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Citizens &amp; Southern Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CTZ
</CO>
<LP>
   CITIZENS &amp; SOUTHERN Corp. (Atlanta) -- Robert V. Royall
Jr., 55 years old, will retire as a vice chairman of this
banking company, effective Dec. 31. He also is head of the
C&amp;S Community &amp; Corporate Banking Group, and chairman of C&amp;S
National Bank of South Carolina. No successor has been named
for any of the positions that Mr. Royall holds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Experts Caution Against a Big Leap Into Small Stocks
   ----
   By Barbara Donnelly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Investors looking for bargains in the wake of the stock
market's August sell-off may be drawn to small stocks by
their attractive fundamentals.
   But no matter how alluring small stocks may look right
now, there are good reasons investors should probably resist
their siren song -- at least for the time being.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Small stocks have been breaking investors' hearts for more
than seven years, shattering the great expectations they
engendered during their heyday in the late 1970s and early
1980s. Despite a brief return to favor in 1988 and early this
year, when they smartly outpaced the big-stock-dominated
Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index, they are languishing again.
   Just since the beginning of August, small stocks have
plunged about 13.2%, according to Wilshire Associates Inc.
The drop, measured on a total-return basis that includes
price changes plus dividends, compares with a 9.4% fall for
the S&amp;P 500. It brings small stocks' losses since January to
about 16.4% -- more than twice the 6.9% year-to-date setback
of the S&amp;P 500.
   While many investment professionals say small stocks are
so cheap now that they're bound to do well in the long run,
many of these pros add that small stocks aren't yet as cheap
as they could get, especially if the stock market resumes its
downward slide.
   "This probably isn't the time to jump in to small stocks,"
says Richard Bernstein, senior quantitative analyst at
Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. In the short term, he reasons, these
stocks have to grapple not only with the market's continuing
love affair with large, "quality" growth stocks -- but also
with tough competition from top-quality fixed-income
investments offering yields approaching 9% or even more.
   True, small stocks do look appealing on classic valuation
measures -- which compare stock prices to corporate earnings,
cash flow, dividends, debt and other fundamentals. But
"they're not back at the valuation levels {they hit in the
mid-1970s} that would argue for a tremendous surge in small
stocks," Mr. Bernstein says.
   Indeed, when small stocks were selling at rock-bottom
prices in the '70s, "we were at the end of the type of period
it appears we may be just entering now -- namely, a
recession," says Paul Ferri, managing general partner at
Matrix Partners, a Boston-based venture capital firm. These
stocks "may be relatively cheap now, but they're going to be
beaten down more" if the economy weakens, he says.
   A struggling economy is generally bad news for all types
of stocks, but there is a special risk with small stocks
because they can be relatively "illiquid." That is, because
they are more thinly traded than large stocks, it can be
difficult to find a willing buyer when times get tough.
   "In a bad recession, the bids for small stocks could dry
up," says John Hagler, of Boston-based investment advisers
Hagler, Mastrovita &amp; Hewitt. "They may do well in the long
run, but you could probably die waiting for them to turn up
-- we've seen that before in 1973-74, when these stocks just
got cheaper and cheaper."
   The difference in liquidity between small stocks and large
stocks helps explain why small stocks tend to be especially
hard hit by bear markets. "They almost always fall farther
and faster than big stocks in significant market declines,"
says Laurence B. Siegel, managing director of Ibbotson
Associates Inc.
   An analysis by the Chicago research and consulting firm
found that small stocks dropped more than large stocks in all
but one of the six recession-related bear markets since 1929.
The exception was at the height of small stocks'
inflation-induced popularity in 1980-82, when they gained
3.3% while big stocks lost 16.9%.
   Although the recent hammering of small stocks' prices may
have discounted a portion of investors' jitters about their
extra risk, it's probably not enough to make them a haven if
the August sell-off turns into a genuine bear market.
   Before the August slide, for instance, some pros were
saying that prices of small stocks were so low they were
already reflecting investors' worst fears. "I made the
argument that small {stocks} would hold up better in a market
decline because they had done so poorly recently," says
Thomas Stevens, chief investment officer at Wilshire Asset
Management. "Then," he adds, a touch ruefully, "they took it
on the chin."
   Such disappointments may make investors slow to revise
their long-held bias that blue-chip growth stocks are the
place to be -- to the extent one wants stocks at all. That
bias was strongly reinforced in the late 1980s, as brilliant
earnings among blue-chip shares continually overshadowed
small stocks.
   As long as investors believe that safer, established
companies can continue to turn out profits at a rate as high
as or higher than most emerging companies, they aren't going
to be easily enticed to run the risks of owning small stocks,
many investment professionals say. "The longer we see this
growth-oriented large-capitalization market, the more likely
it is that small-capitalization stocks will be beaten up,"
says Merrill's Mr. Bernstein.
   As a simple way to gauge the small stocks' prospects, Mr.
Bernstein uses what he calls "the ankle biter index," which
essentially tracks the price of the S&amp;P 500 index relative to
its average per-share earnings. Historically, when the
market's current price earnings ratio is high relative to it
average level over the previous five years, small stocks
suffer "because they can't compete with the expectations for
large growth companies," he says.
   At today's levels, he recommends that investors "wait for
the market's {P/E} multiple to drop and long-term growth
forecasts to be cut for larger stocks" before loading up on
small stocks. Another positive sign for would-be small-stock
investors, he adds, "would be for interest rates to fall or
inflation to pick up so real {or inflation-adjusted} interest
rates are less competitive."
   Such vigilance could be richly rewarding for long-term
investors who can stomach the risks of buying such stocks in
a bear market. That's because the bear-market coin eventually
has a flip side: "When the market does start to recover,"
says Ibbotson's Mr. Siegel, "small stocks boom."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   First Licensed Product Using
   Monsanto Fake Fat Nears Market
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MTC RLM
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Eskimo Pies are going on a diet.
   The maker of the popular 70-year-old ice cream bars this
fall will launch fat-free ice cream sandwiches made with
Monsanto Co.'s Simplesse, the first licensed product using
the fat substitute to reach the market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fat Freedom Eskimo Pie Sandwich is to be introduced in six
Midwestern states by October and nationally by next year. The
only other product containing the fake fat is Monsanto's
Simple Pleasures frozen dairy dessert.
   Food industry analysts said the move should help bolster
Simplesse, which hasn't taken off as quickly as some had
expected when the Food and Drug Administration approved the
fat substitute earlier this year. "Its performance has been
mixed at best," said John McMillin, a food-industry analyst
at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
   Monsanto has split its efforts with Simplesse between
developing its own frozen dessert and licensing the fat
substitute to other food companies. One market that Monsanto
wants to control is so-called hard-pack ice cream, where its
Simple Pleasures frozen dessert competes. It won't license
Simplesse for use in other bulk frozen desserts.
   In some cases, Monsanto is willing to sell exclusive
rights to Simplesse. For instance, Philip Morris Cos.' Kraft
General Foods unit has purchased exclusive rights for use of
Simplesse in the mayonnaise category, once the FDA grants
approval for that use.
   This month, the FDA accepted Monsanto's second filing
seeking approval to use Simplesse in mayonnaise, salad
dressings and other products.
   For Eskimo Pie, a subsidiary of Reynolds Metals Co.,
Richmond, Va., the agreement with Monsanto should be a boon.
David Clark, Eskimo Pie president, predicted that sandwich
sales will quickly top sales of its sugar-free sandwich,
which accounts for 15% of Eskimo Pie's $70 million in annual
sales. "It's a golden opportunity for us," he said.
   Each Fat Freedom sandwich contains no fat and 130
calories, compared with six grams of fat and 180 calories in
a typical ice cream sandwich, according to Eskimo Pie
officials.
   Eskimo Pie has tried to develop its own fat-free product,
but the product made with Simplesse tasted better: "Consumers
are demanding reduced fat foods, but they are unwilling to
sacrifice taste," Mr. Clark said.
   Eskimo Pie's sandwich will soon face competition, though,
because Monsanto said it is negotiating with several other
makers of ice cream novelty products. Company officials won't
disclose terms of their pact with Eskimo Pie or name the
other companies that are interested in using the fat
substitute.
   Moreover, the frozen dessert market has been crowded in
recent years as food companies from H.J. Heinz Co. to Kraft
General Foods launched low-calorie products.
   Food analysts said Monsanto should emphasize licensing the
fake fat rather than focusing on its own product development.
"It could give them the position as a core ingredient for the
entire industry," said David Braff, president of Braff &amp; Co.,
a New York marketing and product consulting firm. He expects
Monsanto will eventually license Simplesse to other hardpack
ice cream makers instead of focusing only on Simple
Pleasures.
   "The taste {of Simple Pleasures} isn't winning a
tremendous amount of support," said Mr. McMillin. "When
people want to eat ice cream, they want ice cream. You can't
call this ice cream."
   And marketing Simplesse and Simple Pleasures is a
challenge because they are new products that are unfamiliar
to consumers. Fake fat is "a hard issue to market," Mr.
McMillin said.
   But Monsanto officials maintain that sales of the frozen
dessert have been better than expected. The Chicago area
plant that produces the dessert had to double its capacity to
keep up with demand.
   And its advertising campaigns, which began in June and
July, have increased sales, company officials said. "Consumer
reaction has been outstanding," said David Morley, president
of Simplesse Co., a subsidiary of Monsanto Co.'s NutraSweet
unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Santa Fe Pacific
   Amends Swap Offer
   On Debentures, Stock
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   SFX
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Santa Fe Pacific Corp., in response to the
market's recent decline, amended an earlier debt-for-equity
exchange offer for some of its high-yielding debt.
   The railroad, real estate and natural-resources concern
last month announced a refinancing plan for its $780 million
of 16% pay-in-kind senior subordinated debentures, due in
2003.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As part of that plan, the company said it would offer
debenture holders a chance to swap $1,000 face value of the
debentures for Santa Fe Pacific common stock valued at
$1,060, up to a maximum of $200 million face value of the
debentures. Santa Fe shares closed at $19.625 on July 30, the
day the swap offer was publicly announced; the company said
the exchange would be made based on a minimum price of $18 a
share.
   But Santa Fe shares -- hammered by the market's downturn
-- have declined sharply to a price below the earlier
minimum.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Santa Fe shares closed at $15.625, down 75 cents.
   The company said that about $145 million principal amount
of debentures had been tendered before the original
expiration date of 12:01 a.m. yesterday. "Rather than proceed
with the exchange of those debentures," the company said, "we
felt that in fairness to our investors we should modify the
offer."
   In addition to reducing the exchange value to reflect a
minimum share price of $15 each, the company extended the
offer to 12:01 a.m. Sept. 12. As in the earlier offer, the
actual exchange value will be based on the average of the
share's closing price for the 10 trading days prior to the
offer's expiration.
   Yesterday's moves suggest that unless the company's stock
shows a sharp upturn, Santa Fe will issue more common shares
in the swap than it had originally anticipated.
   In composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday,
Santa Fe's 16% senior subordinated debentures closed
$103.625, up $1.50.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   InBancshares-Comerica Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   INBA CMCA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CITY OF INDUSTRY, Calif. -- InBancshares Inc., the holding
company for Bank of Industry with three branches in Los
Angeles and one in San Francisco, said shareholders approved
its merger with Comerica Inc., a Detroit-based multibank
holding company, for $40 million.
   InBanshares holders will receive $20.25 for each common
share. The merger, which also has regulatory approval, is
scheduled to close early next year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM's Hughes Air Gets Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GMH
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Hughes Aircraft Co., a unit of General
Motors Corp., received a $24.4 million Navy contract for
oceanographic equipment.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Management Consulting &amp; Research Inc. was given a $13.3
million Air Force contract for cost analysis.
                                                                                                       

   Bozell, Jacobs, Kenyon &amp; Eckhardt Inc. won a $13.1 million
Air Force contract for advertising services.
                                                                                                       

   Tecolote Research Inc. got a $10.6 million Air Force
contract for cost analysis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Will Offer
   $18.4 Billion of Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $1.68 billion in
new cash with the sale Tuesday of about $18.4 billion in
short-term bills to redeem $16.72 billion in maturing bills.
   The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and
26-week bills maturing on Dec. 6, 1990, and March 7, 1991,
respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bills will be available in minimum $10,000
denominations. Tenders must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Tuesday
at the Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Hongkong Bank
   Posts 21% Decline
   In First-Half Profit
   ----
   By Cynthia Owens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   H.HKS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- The British colony's biggest bank, Hongkong &amp;
Shanghai Banking Corp., posted a 21% decline in first-half
profit and said it expected conditions to remain difficult
during the current half.
   Losses in Australia, the U.S. and at two of the
capital-markets divisions eroded earnings from the bank's
traditionally strong markets in Asia and Canada. Analysts
said they weren't surprised that the bank's poor-performing
areas incurred losses, but they hadn't expected the impact of
the deficits to be so great. The analysts had expected the
bank to report profit growth of between 5% and 13%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's pretty bad. The problem areas are a lot worse than
we thought," said David Kowitz, a bank analyst at Jardine
Fleming &amp; Co.
   The bank said after-tax profit fell in the first half to
1.53 billion Hong Kong dollars (US$196 million), or 23.87
Hong Kong cents a share, from HK$1.93 billion, or 30.38 cents
a share, a year earlier. Despite the decline, the proposed
interim dividend was raised to 13 Hong Kong cents a share
from an adjusted 12.7 cents a share. Full-year earnings are
likely to be below last year's record HK$4.77 billion, the
bank said. That would mark its first full-year profit decline
since 1967.
   John Gray, the bank's deputy chairman, called the results
disappointing and noted that the bank earlier had warned
shareholders that it faced a difficult year. The possibility
of higher interest rates in many countries and the conflict
in the Middle East has increased the uncertainty, he added.
   The bank said that it took "significantly higher
provisions" against losses at two of its units, Marine
Midland Banks Inc. of the U.S. and Hongkong Bank of Australia
Ltd., and that the two are expected to post losses for the
full year.
   In the U.S., Marine Midland swung to a first-half loss of
US$19.8 million from net income of US$81.6 million a year
earlier, largely because of increased provisions for its real
estate exposure.
   Hongkong Bank said that its business relationship with
Midland Bank PLC of Britain has been strengthened and that
discussions on a closer association continue. The profit
decline at Hongkong Bank and weak profit at Midland probably
mean that the widely expected combination of the two may be
farther away than many people have predicted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   GROW GROUP Inc. plans to buy back 250,000 of its shares.
The number of shares was overstated in yesterday's edition.
   (See: "Economy: Buy-Backs Begun, Extended Amid Market
Decline" -- WSJ Aug. 28, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   MEDICAL MANAGEMENT OF AMERICA Inc., based in Chicago,
manages and markets ophthalmology practices and ambulatory
surgery centers. Its business was incorrectly described in
Monday's edition.
   (See: "New Stock Listings" -- WSJ Aug. 27, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Flagship Financial Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FLGF
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   JENKINTOWN, Pa. -- Flagship Financial Corp. said its board
authorized the purchase of as many as 345,000, or about 10%,
of the thrift's shares outstanding, in transactions to begin
"in the near future" and continue for the next 12 months.
   Flagship said its current stock price doesn't adequately
reflect its long-term prospects, especially since the company
adopted a plan to reorganize its business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GTI to Sell Shares to Telemetrix
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GTI U.TMX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN DIEGO -- GTI Corp. said shareholders approved the sale
of 2.5 million new shares of GTI common stock for $7.5
million to London-based Telemetrix PLC, its largest holder.
   GTI, a maker of electronic circuit boards, will use the
sale proceeds to help finance its purchase of about 90% of
Valor Electronics Co. for about $8.5 million in cash and
debt. Valor is a San Diego maker of electronic parts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Foreigners Rule the Podium
   ----
   By Barrymore Laurence Scherer
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<LP>
   America has come a long way since the days when our
performing arts (and artists) were mainly imported luxuries.
These days American musicians share equal footing with all
comers, from Isaac Stern and Kathleen Battle to Murray
Perahia and the Emerson String Quartet.
   Yet despite our presence in the international arena, one
field still is dominated by foreign influence at home:
conducting. Leonard Bernstein may have paved the path for
native supremacy on domestic podiums, but foreign conductors
still occupy most of the top positions on these shores. The
big five orchestras -- Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, New York
and Philadelphia -- are headed, respectively, by Seiji Ozawa,
Sir Georg Solti, Christoph von Dohnanyi, Zubin Mehta and
Riccardo Muti, all foreign-born and primarily
foreign-trained, as are Daniel Barenboim and Kurt Masur,
chosen to succeed Mr. Solti and Mr. Mehta.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The generalization holds beyond the magic circle: Mtsislav
Rostropovich heads the National Symphony in Washington;
Raymond Leppard, a Briton, the Indianapolis Symphony; and
Roger Norrington, another Briton, is about to take over New
York's Orchestra of St. Luke's. There are exceptions, notable
among them the Metropolitan Opera's James Levine and the St.
Louis Symphony's music director, Leonard Slatkin, but
exceptions just the same.
   Given the acknowledged quality of musical training in the
U.S., one wonders if this situation isn't a matter of
snobbistic attachment to foreign names -- which appears not
to afflict Europeans. Foreign influence in America is by no
means balanced by American influence abroad. American
conductors make guest appearances and recordings with
European orchestras -- some, such as Messrs. Bernstein and
Levine and Lorin Maazel, enjoy close relationships with the
orchestras at Berlin, Vienna, Paris and Salzburg.
Nonetheless, barely a handful have actually been engaged as
permanent music directors in Europe. The chosen include
Michael Tilson Thomas, recently appointed to lead the London
Symphony, and Laurence Foster, who has just completed a
10-year tenure as music director of the Monte-Carlo Opera.
   Somewhat younger are James Conlon, 40, music director of
the Rotterdam Philharmonic since 1973, recently named chief
conductor of the Cologne Opera and music director of the City
of Cologne; and Andrew Litton, 31, who has been principal
conductor and artistic adviser of the Bournemouth (England)
Symphony since 1988. Both are native New Yorkers; both
established their regular European positions relatively early
in their careers.
   To be sure, Mr. Conlon also has celebrated his 11th season
as music director of the Cincinnati May Festival, and has
appeared at the Met since 1976, where he is scheduled to
conduct "Salome" and "Le Nozze di Figaro" this season, as
well as the new production of Rossini's "Semiramide." But he
says that from the start he wanted to live and work in
Europe. Thus while he maintains a New York apartment, his
primary home is in Cologne.
   Mr. Litton, on the other hand, has an apartment in
Bournemouth, an attractive spa town on England's south coast,
but lives outside Washington, D.C. He made his Met debut in
1989, conducting a fluent if rushed performance of
Tchaikovsky's "Eugene Onegin." It transpired, however, that
his brisk tempos that night were due to the agony of acute
appendicitis that necessitated surgery immediately afterward.
   I finally got the chance to hear Mr. Litton hale and
hearty when he bowed last month at the Caramoor Festival in
Westchester, N.Y., conducting an all-Mozart program with the
Orchestra of St. Luke's. He proved adept at exploiting color
as an expressive device, playing the various instrumental
choirs against one another while maintaining the homogeneous
texture of the whole fabric. Accompanying Garrick Ohlsson in
the Piano Concerto No. 17, K. 453, he chose rather
four-square orchestral playing in the finale, but in context
this proved a firm yet pliant framework for Mr. Ohlsson's
elastic piano part.
   Regardless of numerous American appearances, Messrs.
Conlon and Litton are best known here through their
recordings, which reveal their respective affinities for late
Romantic repertoire. Conlon's Liszt symphonic series with the
Rotterdam Philharmonic (Erato) is of particular importance,
and his new recording with the orchestra of early works by
Bela Bartok (Two Portraits for Violin and Orchestra, Op. 5;
Two Images, Op. 10; Four Pieces, Op. 12) is another worth
having -- bracing, acerbic performances, and, in the
Portraits, surprisingly sweet. The precision and balance of
the playing also bespeaks Mr. Conlon's ability as an
orchestra builder.
   Mr. Litton's newest release is a three-disk series of
Rachmaninoff symphonies played by the Royal Philharmonic
(Virgin Classics) that stands as a serious revisionist
statement. Rachmaninoff's emotional idiom worked against his
reputation in the decades after his death, and certainly the
port-wine chromaticism of the Third Symphony (premiered in
1939) is hardly characteristic of modern music in the age of
Arnold Schoenberg. It was, however, a hallmark of
contemporaneous screen music.
   Those highly colored themes for massed cellos or solo
horn, those towering crescendos emphasized with sustained
rolls on the cymbals, are the very metaphors for what we now
regard as "classic" film scores by composers such as Max
Steiner, Erich Korngold and Dimitri Tiomkin. Yet they
borrowed from Rachmaninoff, not the other way around. Mr.
Litton approaches the style without apology. He yields to the
sweep of these melodies, shaping them with subtle gradations
of tempo rubato. Most important, he has the strings play with
an emphatic portamento -- sliding up and down the fingerboard
to important notes of a phrase.
   Such articulation was as natural to string players of the
late 19th and early 20th centuries as trills were to players
of Mozart's day, but it has long been avoided by modern
players. Though modern ears might find such playing
surprising in more standard repertoire like Mahler or even
Tchaikovsky, the technique proves intensely expressive here.
   ---
   Mr. Scherer writes a monthly column from New York for
Gramophone magazine in London.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Farr Co. to Buy Back Common
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FARC
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -- Farr Co., a producer of filtration
systems, said it may purchase as many as 300,000, or 11%, of
its 2,846,402 common shares outstanding, from time to time in
open-market or negotiated transactions. It didn't specify
when the buy-back program is to be completed.
   The shares acquired will either be held as treasury shares
or allocated to Farr's employee stock option plans. The funds
required for the buy-backs will be obtained through bank
borrowings, Farr said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Met-Coil Systems Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   METS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MET-COIL SYSTEMS Corp. (Cedar Rapids, Iowa) -- H. Arthur
Link, 43 years old, formerly president of the Standard
Products Group, was named president and to the new post of
chief operating officer of this maker of metal-working
machinery and automated equipment. As president and a
director, he succeeds Martin J. Huebschman, who resigned last
June.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merrill Lynch Junk Pioneers Quit
   In Latest Wall Street Reshuffling
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MER WNEWS PWJ
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The superstars of Wall Street's junk-bond
departments are steadily falling by the wayside.
   Yesterday, Raymond Minella and Jeffrey Berenson -- the two
senior executives who led Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.'s push into
high-risk, high-yield junk bonds in the 1980s -- resigned two
months after being relieved of their management duties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Their departures follow recent shakeups at several other
Wall Street securities firms amid the collapse of the $200
billion public junk-bond market. The junk-department heads at
First Boston Corp. and Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. have
been reassigned. Two senior managing directors in Bear
Stearns Cos.' junk-sales department quit this past week, and
PaineWebber Group Inc. is expected shortly to integrate its
junk department into the rest of the firm's bond sales and
trading division.
   In their heyday, Messrs. Minella and Berenson made
millions of dollars for Merrill, and for themselves, as
Merrill tried to dethrone junk-bond king Drexel Burnham
Lambert Inc. But their stars faded with the collapse of the
junk-bond market, which toppled Drexel into bankruptcy-law
proceedings and forced Merrill to rethink its commitment to
junk.
   The two "were part of something big and exciting, but the
world's changed over the last year," said Barry S. Friedberg,
Merrill's head of investment banking, in an interview.
   The changes in the market "necessitated quite a different
role for them in the firm, and we understand why they would
use this opportunity to attempt to do something else," Mr.
Friedberg said.
   Mr. Minella, 41 years old, and Mr. Berenson, 40, would
have left immediately after their duties were cut in June,
say people familiar with their plans. But the two men stayed
to finish their last major project for Merrill: the vast $6.9
billion refinancing package for RJR Nabisco Inc., which is
needed to retire many troublesome junk bonds that were issued
as part of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co.'s record $26 billion
buy-out of the company in February 1989.
   In an interview, Mr. Minella said: "It would have been bad
for everyone to leave RJR in the lurch." He added that the
two wanted to leave on a high note, "like Ted Williams's last
at bat." (Mr. Williams hit a home run in his last at bat for
the Boston Red Sox.)
   For his part, KKR partner Henry Kravis said Messrs.
Minella and Berenson "did as professional a job as I have
ever seen on Wall Street." He called their work "diligent"
and "thorough."
   Messrs. Minella and Berenson -- who discussed their future
this past week while fishing near Mr. Minella's Jackson Hole,
Wyo., home -- both termed their long-term plans "uncertain."
But people with knowledge of their plans said they are
considering, among other things, starting a firm to invest in
restructuring over-leveraged companies.
   On Monday, the two men told their bosses they planned to
leave. Their resignations are effective Friday, Merrill said.
Both men were careful not to burn their bridges with Merrill;
the two men were once the firm's highest-paid executives,
earning a reported $5 million each in 1988. Said Mr. Berenson
in an interview: "I view it as a long and fruitful
association, but it's time to move on."
   After helping bankroll Wall Street in the late 1980s, junk
bonds have slowed to a virtual standstill. Just eight new
issues have been brought to market this year. Wall Street has
made just $16.2 million in junk-bond underwriting fees this
year, compared with $592.5 million through August of last
year, Securities Data Co. says.
   The merchant banking machinery that had been run by
Messrs. Minella and Berenson was absorbed into a new finance
and restructuring department run by Thomas Davis, 37, and
Nate Thorne, 36. Messrs. Davis and Thorne will take over as
co-chairmen of Merrill's merchant banking commitment
committee, posts that had been held by Messrs. Minella and
Berenson.
   Merrill has pared its junk-bond inventory to below $350
million; takeover-related "bridge" loans to corporate clients
have been slashed to about $185 million from $530 million in
June; that takes into account the expected payment soon of a
$230 million loan to Caterair International, formerly
Marriott Corp.'s airline catering division.
   Merrill says it doesn't rule out "additional commitments"
in bridge loans, but only those that are relatively small and
to existing clients.
   ---
   George Anders contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Geo. A. Hormel &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   HRL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GEO. A. HORMEL &amp; Co. (Austin, Minn.) -- James W. Cole,
formerly chairman, president and chief executive officer of
this meat and food processing concern's FDL Marketing Inc.
subsidiary, was named group vice president of the newly
created Foodservice Group; David N. Dickson, formerly senior
vice president, strategic planning and corporate development,
was named group vice president of the newly formed
International, Frozen Foods and Planning &amp; Development Group;
and Gary J. Ray, senior vice president of the operations
group, was named a group vice president of Hormel.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Micron Technology Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   MCRN WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MICRON TECHNOLOGY Inc. (Boise, Idaho) -- Tyler A. Lowrey,
37 years old, was named a member of Micron's board. Mr.
Lowrey, who fills a vacancy, is Micron's vice president,
research and development.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bow Valley Awaits
   Approval to Work
   North Sea Field
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   BVI T.BVI BRG X CANDA RD SC NVA T.NVA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   CALGARY, Alberta -- A group including Bow Valley
Industries Ltd. expects to soon win regulatory approval to
start developing the big East Brae oil and gas field in the
North Sea, at a total cost of about 1.5 billion Canadian
dollars (US$1.31 billion).
   "It's currently in the {U.K.} Department of Energy's
review process, and we should have approval within about a
month," to start work on the field, said Daryl Seaman, Bow
Valley's chairman and chief executive officer, in an
interview.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bow Valley, controlled by British Gas PLC, owns 13.3% of
East Brae and 14% of each of four adjacent fields, three of
which have been put into production since 1983. East Brae is
the largest of the group, accounting for 40% of the Brae
area's estimated 716 million barrels of oil reserves, and 54%
of its natural gas reserves, which total about 2.79 trillion
cubic feet.
   Bow Valley's share of East Brae's development costs,
including related pipeline expenditures, will total about
C$275 million, Mr. Seaman said. Marathon Oil UK Ltd., a unit
of Pittsburgh-based USX Corp., will operate the field.
   Pending approval, production at East Brae is slated to
begin in late 1993, peaking in 1995 at a total expected daily
volume of 155,000 barrels of oil or its equivalent. The
figure includes natural gas volume of 300 million cubic feet
a day, converted to barrels at a six-to-one ratio.
   Bow Valley's share of East Brae's output is expected to
boost the company's oil output by 33%, to 45,000 barrels a
day by 1994, said Keith Lazelle, vice president, investor
relations. Bow Valley's natural gas production is expected to
rise by more than 40% during the same period, to 260 million
cubic feet a day, largely reflecting the impact of East Brae.
   "We did a study comparing the size and impact of East Brae
to Caroline," said Mr. Seaman, referring to a large sour gas
field at Caroline, Alberta, that is 62%-owned by
Calgary-based Shell Canada Ltd. The Caroline field, generally
regarded as Canada's largest gas find in recent years, has
won much industry attention in Canada. "We found that East
Brae is at least as large a project, and will throw off more
revenue, than Caroline," he said.
   Regulators in Alberta are expected to announce as early as
Friday which of two competing development plans for the
Caroline field has been approved. A C$825 million development
proposal by Shell Canada, a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group,
an Anglo-Dutch concern, is competing with a rival plan by
Husky Oil Ltd. Husky, which owns 12% of Caroline, is an
affiliate of Nova Corp. of Alberta.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Midway Airlines
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   MDW WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MIDWAY AIRLINES (Chicago) -- Alfred S. Altschul, 50 years
old, was named senior vice president, finance, and chief
financial officer. David B. Armstrong, 50, was named senior
vice president, corporate affairs, general counsel and
secretary. John P. Tague, 28, was named senior vice
president, marketing and planning. Lois A. Gallo, 41, was
named senior vice president, customer services. They were
previously vice presidents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   DeSoto Sells Thickener Business
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DSO UK T.UCC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DES PLAINES, Ill. -- DeSoto Inc. said it sold its
thickener business to a unit of Union Carbide Corp. Terms
weren't disclosed.
   DeSoto, a maker of paints, chemicals and detergents,
announced plans in July to sell operations accounting for
more than 80% of its sales in response to a court order to
"maximize shareholder value."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sale of the business, which modifies the flow
characteristics of water-based products such as paint and
adhesives, is the latest in a series of agreements that
represent a near-total liquidation, with proceeds to be
distributed to shareholders. DeSoto plans to retain only its
detergent business.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sony Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SNE
</CO>
<LP>
   SONY Corp. (Tokyo) -- Masayuki Nozoe was named president
of Sony Consumer Video Products Co., a unit of Sony Corp. of
America, Park Ridge, N.J. Mr. Nozoe, who is filling a vacancy
at Sony's consumer video products unit, was previously senior
vice president of Sony's personal video division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alcoa, Akzo Joint Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AA AKZOY
</CO>
<IN>
ALUMINUM (ALU)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Aluminum Co. of America and Akzo, a
Netherlands-based chemical company, signed a memorandum of
understanding to cooperate in production and marketing of
fiber-metal laminates for the aerospace industry.
   Both companies have developed materials using alternating
layers of sheet metal and high-strength fiber-reinforced
resins. However, Alcoa uses aramid fibers, such as Du Pont
Co.'s Kevlar, while Akzo uses glass fibers, Alcoa said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Alcoa, a major aluminum producer, would contribute its
expertise in use of aluminum alloys to the joint venture and
would have a majority interest in the joint venture, if a
final agreement is reached. Akzo would contribute its
knowledge of advanced fibers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Holnam Buys United Cement
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HLN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DUNDEE, Mich. -- Holnam Inc. said it completed the
purchase of United Cement Co., Artesia, Miss., for $61
million.
   Holnam, a maker of cement, said the transaction included
seven distribution terminals in Tennessee, South Carolina,
Mississippi, Alabama and Georgia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The acquisition was first announced by Holnam in June
following a preliminary agreement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New York MTA Job to AT&amp;T
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T UT
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. will
provide long-distance service for pay phones at all
facilities operated by New York state's Metropolitan Transit
Authority under a three-year contract valued at about $25.2
million.
   The telecommunications giant said that US Sprint
Communications Co., an 80%-owned subsidiary of United
Telecommunications Inc., Westwood, Kan., previously had
provided such service for most pay phones under a one-year
deal with the agency.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MTA oversees the New York City Transit Authority's subways
and buses, the Long Island Rail Road, the Metro-North
commuter railroad, the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel
Authority, and the Metropolitan Suburban Bus Authority, which
operates buses in Nassau County on Long Island.
   A spokesman for US Sprint said, "The public-phone market
is an extremely competitive environment. While we were
unsuccessful in this particular case, we have enjoyed
tremendous success in that marketplace and will continue to
bid for business such as the MTA's."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Dominion Realty Trust
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   UDR
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   RICHMOND, Va. -- United Dominion Realty Trust Inc. said
its board authorized the repurchase of up to 581,000 common
shares outstanding. The repurchased shares will be used in
the trust's dividend reinvestment plan or stock option plan,
or to convert subordinated debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   RMI's Board Clears Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RTI
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NILES, Ohio -- RMI Titanium Co. said directors authorized
the purchase of as much as $10 million of its common stock.
The titanium products concern has 15.1 million shares
outstanding.
   At its current price, the buy-back would represent a total
of about 1.2 million shares, or 8% of the common outstanding.
RMI shares closed at $8.25, down 12.5 cents, in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. The stock has
traded as high as $13 since the company went public last
April 20.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While product orders have declined recently, "This
wouldn't appear to justify our stock price decline," L.
Frederick Gieg Jr., president and chief executive officer,
said. Because of a large backlog of orders for commercial
aircraft, he said, "We feel RMI's titanium mill product
shipments in 1991 will approach the levels of 1990."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Window or Aisle?
   Smoking or Non?
   First Class or Pod?
   ---
   Egg-Shaped Titanium Capsule
   Is Getting the Hard Sell
   As Airliner Safety Seat
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPNY MD BA HXL
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
AIRLINES (AIR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   LONG BEACH, Calif. -- Life Protecting Systems Inc. wants
to "take the terror out of aviation." But some believe it
puts the fear into investing, instead.
   Promoted by a former computer-equipment salesman named
Landon Tinder, the small start-up company is trying to market
the ultimate in safe airliner seating: egg-shaped titanium
pods, each containing two to eight passenger seats, that
would fit into an airplane fuselage.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Should the plane start to go down, the door of each pod
would close to seal the passengers against a sudden loss of
cabin pressure, flames, smoke, flying objects and even
impact. The way Mr. Tinder sees it, the pods -- collectively
called the aeronautical life-preserving security system, or
ALPS -- are about to take his company soaring into a $20
billion market.
   A lot of folks take him seriously. The science magazine
Omni said in an article on "Accessing the Future" that ALPS
"could become standard on commercial airplanes by 1991." The
national television show "Hard Copy" and a number of West
Coast radio and TV stations and newspapers have publicized
him. More than 130 stockholders and other investors have
risked $1.5 million on the privately held company.
   And why not? After all, says Mr. Tinder, Boeing Co. has
"indicated a lot of interest in the project." McDonnell
Douglas Corp. "has indicated to us completely that they are
considering the concept of the closure cell," perhaps on the
MD-12X, a version of its popular wide-body tri-jet now under
study. In all, according to a business plan developed last
year, Life Protecting Systems anticipated having orders for
more than $24 million of ALPS by now.
   But so far, all the company has sold is securities.
   Boeing officials say they can't recall having ever spoken
to Mr. Tinder or his colleagues. McDonnell Douglas says it
wants nothing to do with Mr. Tinder, even though Lawrence
Skantze, a retired Air Force general, wrote to Robert Hood,
president of McDonnell Douglas's commercial aircraft
division, on ALPS's behalf.
   "Frankly," says Gen. Skantze, who was enlisted by Mr.
Tinder through a friend of a friend, "Bob wrote me back and
told me he was very skeptical. And he was angry that Tinder
was pushing so hard without having enough engineering
detail."
   Though one of Mr. Tinder's many press releases asserts
that Japan Air Lines intends to install the ALPS system in
its fleet within three years, a JAL spokesman says the
airline isn't remotely interested. And while Mr. Tinder says
Federal Aviation Administration chief scientist Albert
Lupinetti is "supporting this product," Mr. Lupinetti
responds: "You can't help but get the feeling there is more
hype than engineering work at play here."
   Most recently, Mr. Tinder suggested that Hexcel Corp., a
major aerospace supplier, "might offer us the option to be
bought by them, or, of course, they might invest." But Andy
Hegedus, who handles technology acquisition at Hexcel, says
that after briefly reviewing ALPS, "let me put it to you this
way: I'm not exactly jumping up and down about the idea."
   Airlines and aircraft makers are reluctant to attack any
safety proposal publicly. But an airline design specialist
says Mr. Tinder's 234-pound pods, even if perfected, would
turn a jetliner into "a lead sled." She suggests that adding
such weight, which would require reducing passenger loads,
runs counter to industry efforts to cut weight and increase
capacity.
   Mr. Tinder dismisses the nay-saying. "It's all very
political," he says. "It's like the automobile. Look how hard
it was to get seat belts in them."
   So Life Protecting Systems presses ahead. Mr. Tinder aims
to raise $5 million, partly from the public sale of stock
within California, and eventually to get the shares listed
nationally over-the-counter. When an airline accident occurs,
his publicity machine steps up its barrage of press releases.
"We would have even saved lives over Lockerbie," Mr. Tinder
says, referring to the terrorist bombing over Scotland that
killed all aboard.
   "They may raise public money, but in the end they're just
going to raise public ire," asserts Jim Greene, a science
consultant for the House subcommittee on transportation,
aviation and materials. Mr. Tinder appeared before the panel
last March, but disappointed lawmakers when he acknowledged
that ALPS wasn't as fire-resistant as they'd been led to
believe, according to Mr. Greene.
   "What's really a shame is that Tinder may actually have an
abstract concept that should be looked at seriously," he
says. "He's cutting his own throat needlessly." Mr. Tinder's
contention that his system would have saved lives at
Lockerbie particularly irritates the congressional adviser.
"That sort of claim defies physics," says Mr. Greene, a Ph.D.
who has taught the subject in college.
   Mr. Tinder has his own Ph.D.s to call on. Several years
ago, his father, an engineering professor at Washington State
University, asked colleagues to help with the pod design.
"It'll do what it's advertised to do," contends Jack
Kimbrell, who taught there for 32 years and developed the
pod's retracting door.
   "Besides being a life-saver, this is a good business to be
in," adds George Fukuda, a staff engineer at TRW Inc.'s
aerospace division. He says he has invested "well into six
figures" in Life Protecting Systems and is acting on his own
time as its chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Tinder
is president.
   Mr. Tinder's success in winning seed capital and converts
may stem from a very real public concern about air safety. A
Gallup poll last year found that 63% of Americans had "lost
confidence" in the safety of airlines. Nearly a quarter of
travelers, according to an earlier Boeing study, are anxious
when flying.
   Mr. Tinder, born in Berkeley, Calif., says he attended
Orange Coast College in Costa Mesa for three years but didn't
graduate. He sold computer hardware for a number of companies
before he began developing the pod idea five years ago.
   He says other investors include technicians from TRW,
General Motors Corp.'s Hughes Aircraft division and McDonnell
Douglas. In addition to money, he says, this talent has given
the company about 10,000 hours of engineering work, worth
$2.5 million, in exchange for 1.86 million shares of Life
Protecting Systems stock.
   Mr. Tinder, who earns $100,000 a year in salary, owns
41.3% of the company's 3.66 million shares. Life Protecting
Systems claims 11 employees, including part-timers. With
additional financing, Mr. Tinder maintains, it could produce
250 ALPS systems a year by 1991 and 3,000 a year by 1994,
when it would have two factories.
   Today, a half-scale ALPS mockup sits in the lobby of the
company's plush offices here. Computers fill other rooms,
with monitors displaying 900 engineering drawings of the
system. Copies of articles about air accidents plaster the
walls of a conference room, where blueprints for a factory
lie rolled up on the table.
   Mr. Tinder, 30, is tanned, well-coifed, dresses in
double-breasted suits and sports a gold bracelet and rings.
He exudes confidence, even when discussing his invention's
apparent shortcomings. He concedes that an airline would have
to pay $25,000 a seat with an ALPS system, twice the cost of
conventional seats, and seating capacity would drop as much
as 30%.
   Says John Enders, president of the nonprofit Flight Safety
Foundation in Washington, D.C.: "If you wanted to design a
cubicle that would guarantee survival for human beings in
almost any situation, you could do it. But you're going to do
it at a great cost."
   But Mr. Tinder purports to have all the answers. He says
cutting deaths and injuries from crashes would also cut
airlines' legal bills and insurance costs, and, in the end,
increase their profits. And, he asks, won't the public clamor
for a system that has a breathe-through air bag and its own
oxygen supply, can withstand heat up to 2,800 degrees
Fahrenheit and has a seat that's more than three times as
shock-resistant as current standards -- all while providing
the comfort of a La-Z-Boy?
   "We want to be very careful and very conservative," Mr.
Tinder says. "We're not trying to hype things. It's just a
matter of when it will happen."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, August 28, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/16% high, 8% low, 8% near closing bid,
8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for
overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.85% 30 to 34 days; 7.95% 35 to 44 days;
7.90% 45 to 59 days; 7.85% 60 to 89 days; 7.80% 90 to 149
days; 7.75% 150 to 179 days; 7.625% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.04%
30 days; 8.02% 60 days; 7.98% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.65% one month; 7.67% two
months; 7.69% three months; 7.91% six months; 8.05% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.05% one month; 8.05% three months;
8.125% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.94% 30 days; 7.87% 60 days; 7.83%
90 days; 7.76% 120 days; 7.79% 150 days; 7.75% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/8% - 8% one month; 8 3/16% -
8 1/16% two months; 8 3/16% - 8 1/16% three months; 8 3/16% -
8 1/16% four months; 8 1/4% 8 1/8% five months; 8 1/4% - 8
1/8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/8% one month;
8 3/16% three months; 8 1/4% six months; 8 5/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.25%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, August 27, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.49% 13 weeks; 7.48% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.24%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.125%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.18%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.55%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.60%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board Seat Is Sold
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange said a seat was
sold for $309,000, up $8,000 from the last previous sale last
Thursday. Seats currently are quoted at $301,000 bid and
$350,000 asked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Spain's Electricity Consumption
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MADRID -- Spain's electricity consumption in July
increased 3.8% to 11.5 million kilowatt-hours from 11.1
million kwh a year earlier, Unesa, the association of
electricity producers, said. Consumption in the first seven
months of this year grew 2.7%.
   Electricity production in July climbed 1.3% to 12.1
million kwh from 11.9 million kwh a year earlier. A
kilowatt-hour is the amount of electrical energy consumed
when 1,000 watts are used for one hour. Hydroelectric
production in July increased 11% from a year earlier, and
thermal energy production jumped 18%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Managing Director
   Of Enimont, Cragnotti,
   Planning to Step Aside
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   I.EMT WNEWS MNT EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MILAN, Italy -- Enimont S.p.A.'s managing director, Sergio
Cragnotti, in a surprise move, announced plans to resign,
saying soaring oil costs were exacerbating serious problems
the company already faces because of the long standoff
between its two major shareholders.
   The move came as Italy's new minister for state holdings,
Franco Piga, continued his attempt to mediate in the dispute
between Raul Gardini's Montedison S.p.A. chemical group and
state energy conglomerate Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi over
control of the Enimont venture.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Cragnotti, a close aide of Mr. Gardini, has been
managing director since Enimont was set up in January last
year. He assumed full executive powers in May following the
resignation of the ENI-nominated president Lorenzo Necci.
   Mr. Cragnotti said his resignation, both as managing
director and as a member of the board, would take effect
Sept. 7, when an Enimont shareholders' meeting has been
scheduled.
   He explained his decision by saying that the continued
deadlock over control of the company, in the context of the
oil crisis, "has dramatically illustrated the impossibly
difficult conditions in which the management of the group is
working."
   Separately, Enimont said it was temporarily laying off
2,000 workers over a six-month period because of difficult
chemical-market conditions, higher oil prices and scarce
supplies of some primary materials.
   While Montedison and ENI each holds a 40% stake, most of
the remaining 20% has been in the hands of allies of Mr.
Gardini since early this year, giving him increased, but not
total, control of Enimont.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Belgian Firm's Unit Buys Mine
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   B.ACC B.SGL LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED MINING (MNG)
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Acec-Union-Miniere, a Belgian nonferrous
metals and mining unit of Societe Generale de Belgique, said
it and a Mexican partner bought the Cananea copper mine from
the Mexican government for $475 million.
   A spokesman said the purchase is Acec's first venture in
South America. Acec holds slightly more than 21% of the mine,
which was bought through a joint venture, Mexicana de Cananea
S.A., formed with a mining affiliate of Grupo Mexico. Acec
has spent $85 million on the mine; Grupo Mexico, which holds
the remaining 79%, has spent $390 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The venture also is investing $30 million in expanding
Cananea output, now 150,000 tons of copper a year, which the
spokesman said the company hopes to increase to 250,000 tons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Continental Air to Build Facility
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CTA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Continental Airlines Holdings Corp. said it
will build an aircraft maintenance center on 150 acres at
Intercontinental Airport here at a cost of about $190
million, with completion scheduled for about 1993.
   The carrier said the city agreed to finance the project
with airport revenue bonds and that debt service on the bonds
will be paid by a long-term lease with Continental.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Continental said about 4,000 workers will be required to
manage the facility, including new employees and Continental
workers who choose to transfer from the company's Denver
maintenance facility, which is to close soon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Former Guinness Chairman Sentenced to Five Years
   ----
   By Craig Forman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   U.GUI EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- A former chairman of Guinness PLC was sentenced
to five years in prison for what the judge called "dishonesty
on a massive scale" in the biggest British financial scandal
of the 1980s.
   By British standards, the sentences given to Ernest
Saunders, 55 years old, and two of his co-defendants were
unusually stiff and signaled tougher policing of London's
financial community, legal specialists said. The trial judge,
Justice Sir Denis Henry, said the sentence sends "a clear
message that those who seek commercial advantage by acting
dishonestly can expect little leniency from the court."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sentencing of Mr. Saunders and the two others closed a
chapter in the longest-running British financial scandal of
the 1980s. The case, with its three-year investigation and
113-day trial, helped prompt new laws to regulate practices
in British boardrooms and brokerage houses.
   Mr. Saunders' crime, according to the verdict Monday,
occurred during the British spirits company's #2.53 billion
($4.92 billion) takeover in 1986 of Scottish rival Distillers
Co. To win the takeover battle, Mr. Saunders allegedly
conspired to inflate his company's stock price. Prosecutors
said he authorized payments to three co-defendants, one of
whom bought #25 million worth of Guinness stock. Supporting
the stock's price was important to Guinness's takeover
victory because the value of its offer for Distillers was
tied to the price of Guinness's shares.
   During yesterday's sentencing, one of the defendants,
Anthony Parnes, a 45-year-old stockbroker, collapsed. But he
later returned to the dock to hear himself sentenced to 2 1/2
years in prison and ordered to pay #440,000 in court costs.
   Prosecutors said Mr. Parnes had received #3.4 million in
"success" fees from Guinness for his help in the
stock-support scheme. He has already repaid about #2 million
to Guinness.
   A third defendant, Gerald Ronson, 50, chairman of Heron
International PLC, was sentenced to one year in prison, fined
#5 million and ordered to pay #440,000 in court costs.
   Companies controlled by Mr. Ronson, the jury found,
received #5.8 million for help in supporting Guinness stock.
But after the scandal broke Mr. Ronson repaid most of the
money.
   A fourth defendant, financier Sir Jack Lyons, 74, is
scheduled to be sentenced Sept. 25. Sir Jack, the jury found,
illegally received a #3 million fee for his help in the
takeover battle. A second trial is expected to begin this
autumn of Mr. Saunders and three other defendants on other
charges arising from the Guinness affair.
   In London's financial district, one brokerage house
chairman, who declined to be named, called the penalties
"very severe" and said they represent "a dramatic change of
{police} tactics in the City." Andrew Hugh Smith, chairman of
the Stock Exchange, called the case "a salutary and highly
visible warning of the innate risks in activity of this
kind." But he added that he doesn't think the Guinness
defendants' conduct "is or ever was widespread" in the City.
   Justice Henry, on the other hand, called the crimes an
outgrowth of the competitive, aggressive atmosphere of the
British mergers and acquisitions game during the 1980s bull
market. He called Mr. Saunders "at the center of the
dishonest conduct that occurred" at Guinness. While Mr.
Saunders didn't invent the illegal stock-support scheme, the
judge said, it couldn't have occurred without his "knowledge
and approval."
   "When men are hell-bent for victory, greed is in the
saddle, and ordinary probity and the law are thrust aside,"
the judge said.
   Mr. Saunders, who says he is impoverished and on legal
aid, stood silently as the judge passed sentence. Mr.
Saunders' defense had been that the payments he authorized to
his co-defendants were normal business expenses during a
takeover. His son says he will appeal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bishop Chief, Theiss,
   Succeeded by Schwartz
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS BISH
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Bishop Inc., which provides design and
other support services for engineers and architects, said its
board elected James R. Schwartz president and chief executive
officer.
   He succeeds John J. Theiss, who the company said resigned
"to pursue other business endeavors." Mr. Theiss, who joined
Bishop last February, couldn't be reached to comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Schwartz, 56 years old, had been a Bishop consultant
for four months. He was president of Terminal Data Corp.,
Moorpark, Calif., for two years until 1988. He left Varian
Associates, based in Palo Alto, Calif., in 1979, after
serving in various posts for more than 20 years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   ...While Foe, Duke, May Be Aiming
   To Fund National Right-Wing Machine
   ----
   By Jill Abramson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   MANSFIELD, La. -- In this rural hamlet where Confederate
forces scored one of their last Civil War victories, neither
the August heat nor the fact it's church night has deterred
300 David Duke supporters from packing the local Veterans of
Foreign Wars hall.
   "This is the greatest grass-roots campaign ever," gushes
Mr. Duke, the boyish-looking former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard
whose campaign for the U.S. Senate has attracted wide
attention.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rally-goers eagerly fork over $10 and $20 bills for Duke
T-shirts and other campaign paraphernalia, while almost
everyone stuffs a few bills into the plastic buckets that are
passed around following Mr. Duke's one-hour stump speech. No
one here doubts that Mr. Duke will achieve his fund-raising
goal of $2 million by the Oct. 6 primary.
   Indeed, some political observers in the state believe that
Mr. Duke's real purpose isn't to win, but to establish a
national right-wing political fund-raising machine. "I don't
think he really wants to get elected," says former Louisiana
Gov. Edwin Edwards, adding: "It's more fun being a candidate
and building a national image and movement."
   Already, there is speculation that if Mr. Duke fails to
unseat incumbent Sen. Bennett Johnston this year, he will
turn around and run for governor next year. And Mr. Duke's
aides openly discuss a 1992 presidential race.
   Behind its populist facade, the Duke campaign is a
high-tech money machine. At his campaign headquarters in
Metairie, computers store detailed information on 90,000
supporters nationwide. Those names have spawned a
sophisticated direct-mail effort that has paid off
handsomely. He has so far netted almost $1.5 million, more
than 15 times what he raised for his 1989 state legislative
race and far more than the $575,000 he drew for a fringe 1988
presidential bid.
   Mr. Duke's campaign also has inspired a well-funded
backlash. Sen. Johnston is using clips from Mr. Duke's own
campaign commercial to raise out-of-state money for his
hoped-for $4 million war chest. Religious leaders in the
state have organized a political-action committee to defeat
Mr. Duke and have already raised $250,000 toward a $1 million
media effort. Mr. Duke also is being opposed by a number of
conservative activists, many of whom see working against him
as a way to demonstrate that they themselves aren't racist.
   Only a small portion of Mr. Duke's campaign donations are
itemized on federal disclosure forms, since the law requires
that individual names be disclosed only for contributions of
more than $200 -- a fact that makes Mr. Duke's fund-raising
controversial.
   Linda Melton, a former Duke campaign volunteer, says she
helped collect nearly $10,000 from 1,500 Duke supporters at a
rally in Bossier City last winter. "They {Mr. Duke and his
aides} just stuffed all that money into a garbage bag at the
end of the night and it was never properly counted," charges
Ms. Melton, who left the campaign after a month because she
says she became disenchanted. "David took the money upstairs
himself. Then he chewed us out for missing some people."
   James McPherson, a New Orleans attorney who serves as
spokesman for the campaign, confirms that the campaign often
transports large amounts of cash back to campaign
headquarters in Metairie in garbage bags or suitcases. "I was
always concerned that the money was handled by so many
people," he concedes. "But we do the best we can to collect
and account for it."
   The candidate himself says he doesn't profit personally
from running for office. But it's difficult to untangle Mr.
Duke's campaign finances from his personal endeavors. His
Metairie home, which was purchased in the 1970s for $20,000,
also serves as his campaign headquarters, his legislative
office and the headquarters for the National Association for
the Advancement of White People -- as well as a business that
sells what Mr. Duke terms "suppressed books" and a consulting
firm that he owns.
   Everything is linked. For example, the consulting firm,
BC&amp;E, received $21,900 for rental and other expenses from Mr.
Duke's unsuccessful 1988 presidential campaign. The NAAWP has
paid BC&amp;E $119,000. BC&amp;E, in turn, lent Mr. Duke's Senate
campaign $3,200, which has since been repaid. Several of Mr.
Duke's aides are hazy about what BC&amp;E does, although Mr. Duke
says it owns and leases the computers used in his campaigns.
(He defends all payments to the firm as proper.) The NAAWP,
meanwhile, is reported to be under investigation by the
Internal Revenue Service for allegedly abusing its tax-exempt
status.
   None of these problems appears to have put a serious
damper on Mr. Duke's efforts. Neither has an effort to get
political consultants to boycott the Duke campaign. Rusty
Cantelli, a media consultant who has also worked for
Mississippi GOP Sens. Trent Lott and Thad Cochran, shocked
the political establishment here when he signed on to help
write and produce a 30-minute TV show featuring Mr. Duke.
   After the program aired last month, more than $90,000
poured into a 900 telephone line that flashed on the screen,
even though some callers were mistakenly routed to a
soft-porn message.
   (See related story: "Politics &amp; Policy: Johnston Treads
Warily in Trying to Defuse Opponent's Populist Movement in
Louisiana..." -- WSJ Aug. 29, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Australian Manufacturing Index
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   CANBERRA, Australia -- A price index of articles produced
by Australian manufacturing industry rose 0.1% in May from
April and increased 5.3% from May 1989, the Bureau of
Statistics said.
   The May gain narrowed from a rise of 0.6% in April and
represents the narrowest month-to-month advance since August
1989 and the smallest annual increase since August 1986. The
year-to-year increase narrowed from April's 6.6% rise from a
year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Prices for petroleum products, fabricated metal products
and other industrial machinery and equipment fell in May.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Citizens First Bancorp
   Elects Alford Chairman
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CFB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GLEN ROCK, N.J. -- Citizens First Bancorp said George E.
Alford, 63 years old, a director of the banking company, was
elected chairman, succeeding Richard G. Kelley, 58, who is
taking early retirement.
   The parent of Citizens First National Bank is searching
for a new chief executive officer, also to succeed Mr.
Kelley, who will remain a director of and a consultant to the
banking company. Meanwhile, the Citizens board appointed
Rodney T. Verblaauw, 52-year-old president of the bank, to
act as chief executive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Alford, a Citizens director since 1985, formerly was
chairman of Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Advance Amid Firmness in Bonds
   And Plunge in Oil Prices; London Also Climbs
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks finished higher for the third consecutive
trading day Tuesday. Buying was encouraged by bond market
firmness and oil price plunges linked to the prospect that an
immediate break-out of war will be averted in the Persian
Gulf, traders said.
   Share prices at London also increased.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a strong overnight advance on the New York Stock
Exchange lifted sentiment, Tokyo stock prices advanced
solidly from early in the morning session. But prices
fluctuated widely in the plus side for the rest of the day as
broad gains led by dealer buying prompted profit-taking by
institutions, traders said.
   The Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was up 569 points
at 25710.76. The index surged 976 Monday.
   In Tokyo Wednesday, the Nikkei index retreated 206.76
points to 25504.
   Tuesday's volume on the first section was estimated at 480
million shares, up from 352 million Monday.
   Advancing issues outnumbered decliners, 923 to 93, and 56
remained unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index (Topix) of all issues listed
in the first section, which gained 58.87 points Monday, was
up 42.92 points, or 2.25%, at 1947.51.
   The second section index, which advanced 49.05 points
Monday, was up 88.55 points, or 2.46%, to 3692.34. Volume in
the second section was estimated at 10 million shares, up
from 7.2 million Monday.
   The Nikkei index advanced as high as 25913 at midmorning,
helped by active arbitrage buying by a foreign brokerage
house and by dealers buying for their own accounts. Some
investment trust funds and individual investors also helped
push up prices of blue chips, traders said.
   The Nikkei index ended the morning session at 25660.28,
reflecting investors' caution against a fast-paced advance,
traders said.
   Stock prices rebounded to a level near the intraday high
at midafternoon, helped by heavy buying by foreign investors,
centered on such blue-chip shares as Hitachi, Toshiba and
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries. But again, the advances prompted
profit-taking by institutions, traders said.
   Rumors that some U.S. hostages had been killed by Iraq
affected the market in the afternoon, putting it in a nervous
mood. Although the rumors were later said to be unfounded and
the impact on trading was minor, observers said the market
remains in a position in which it can be easily swayed in
either direction.
   The recent development of political and diplomatic
negotiations has reduced fear of a confrontation in the
Middle East. But "a solution that can satisfy both Iraq and
the U.S. is unlikely to be reached soon," said Hiroyuki
Murai, general manager of stock trading at Nikko Securities.
   Haruo Ueno, manager of stock trading at Wako Securities,
said, "Unless some clear direction becomes visible, as far as
the Middle East problem is concerned, institutions will not
buy stocks."
   Helped by a sharp plunge of petroleum prices, whose recent
surge fueled fears of inflation, "the market mood became
slightly improved from total pessimism," said Shigeru Akiba,
of UBS Phillips &amp; Drew International.
   But even if the Middle East tension were eased quickly,
observers said, a further market recovery isn't easy.
   The disappearance of the Iraqi problem would only make
investors shift their attention to high domestic interest
rates and the slowdown of the U.S. economy, said Mr. Murai of
Nikko Securities.
   Winners Tuesday included shipbuilding companies such as
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, which was up 26 yen (18 cents)
to 840 yen, and IHI, which gained 20 to 760.
   Aluminum-related metals companies rose sharply, with
Nippon Light Metal up 100 to 1,350.
   Among other big gainers were Misawa Homes, which advanced
240 to 2,200, and construction companies such as Kajima,
which ended at 1,500, up 50.
   London Shares lost some of their sharp early gains Tuesday
but managed to end higher following strong rallies overseas
Monday.
   The market, which was closed for a holiday Monday, reached
its highest point in the first half hour of trading.
   "We were looking for a new attitude for the market this
morning following Tokyo," which rose strongly both Monday and
Tuesday, said one trader. But he added that the initial boom
proved a difficult level to sustain throughout the day.
   Caution over the Middle East outcome continues to restrict
trading. Although the market was looking "better than
expected," one trader said, the trading level for the day was
"abysmal."
   Another trader said "there is simply no supply or demand."
   At the close, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share
index was up 39.7 points on the day at 2126.1, below the
day's best of 2133.2 but up from the low of 2113.6.
   The narrower FT 30-share index was up 40.6 points at
1657.4. Volume of 281.6 million shares was down from Friday's
figure of 347.7 million.
   In the futures markets, the September FT-SE 100 index
contract was trading at 2149.0, unchanged from Friday's
close.
   International stocks remained firm, supported by rumors of
an imminent drop in interest rates, which led the pound to
soften against some of its European counterparts. Sterling
firmed to $1.9475 from $1.9445 late Friday but fell to 3.0245
marks from 3.0277.
   Glaxo shares jumped to 727 pence ($14.13) from 692 pence.
Unilever rose to 632 from 624.
   Also benefiting from the interest rate speculation were
construction-related stocks. RMC firmed to 601 from 579.
Tarmac rose to 243 from 234.
   Share prices of companies due to announce interim
statements today performed well. Ladbrokes rose 8 to 279,
Cadbury Schweppes climbed 11 to 318 and Pearson rose 9 to
694.
   Elsewhere, stock prices closed higher in Sydney, Hong
Kong, Singapore, Wellington, Seoul, Taipei and Manila.
   Share prices closed higher in Amsterdam, Madrid, Milan and
Stockholm and lower in Paris, Frankfurt, Zurich and Brussels.
South African gold stocks closed marginally lower.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                    % This
                                Aug 27     Aug 24     Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .......................  297.5      288.1   -  8.5
   Britain ....................  620.5      620.5   - 13.9
   Canada .....................  373.9      373.3   - 13.5
   Japan ...................... 1071.5     1035.3   - 35.3
   France .....................  474.2      454.9   - 16.4
   Germany ....................  261.5      247.3   -  8.3
   Hong Kong .................. 2131.8     2131.8   +  1.7
   Switzerland ................  189.4      182.1   - 14.2
   Australia ..................  302.3      298.4   -  8.7
   World index ................  469.2      454.3   - 17.3
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   H.J. Heinz Bond Redemption
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HNZ
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- H.J. Heinz Co. said it will redeem $10
million principal amount of the 11.8% industrial revenue
bonds due April 1, 1992, issued by the Puerto Rico
Industrial, Medical and Environmental Pollution Control
Facilities Financing Authority and guaranteed by Heinz.
   The bonds will be redeemed at par on Oct. 1, Heinz said,
and will be selected by lot from the $34 million principal
amount of the bonds outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mellon's Corporate Trust Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   MEL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Mellon Bank Corp. said it is considering the
sale of its corporate trust business, but will continue to
serve as trustee for municipal debt issues.
   Mellon said a number of prospective buyers have indicated
an interest in the corporate trust business, which has annual
revenue of about $5 million. The bank holding company said it
expects to complete a bidding process and reach an agreement
on the sale in this year's fourth quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The unit acts as administrator, record keeper and paying
agent for corporate debt issues.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   Kay Jewelers
   Chairman Sells
   Shares in Firm
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers and Vindu P. Goel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   KJI KO BAC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Financially troubled Kay Jewelers Inc. agreed
last month to be bought by Ratners Group PLC for securities
that Ratners values at $17 a share. Earlier this month, Kay
Jewelers' chairman sold 17% of his family's stake for
substantially less, $13.13 a share, filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission show.
   The share price of the Alexandria, Va., jewelry-store
chain has dropped even further since the sale, closing
yesterday at $11.375 a share, down 25 cents, in New York
Stock Exchange trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Money managers and analysts say the share price has been
falling not only on the stock market's overall weakness, but
also on the belief that Ratners overstated the value of the
new convertible preferred shares it is offering in the swap.
   On Aug. 1, Kay Jewelers chairman Anthonie van Ekris sold
60,000 shares for about $787,800, the filings show. And Harry
Braverman, a vice president of the company, sold his total
stake of 15,165 shares last month for $13.75 a share,
according to SEC filings. Mr. van Ekris and Mr. Braverman
could not be reached for comment. A company spokeswoman said
Mr. van Ekris's wife sold the shares, and that Mr. Braverman
is retiring.
   Robert M. Winer, analyst with Johnston, Lemon &amp; Co., puts
the value of Ratners' offer at $14 to $15 a share. But "there
is always some discount {in a share price} until the deal is
signed on the dotted line," he said. He also blamed the stock
market's overall decline for the drop in Kay Jewelers' share
price.
   William Whyte, analyst at Stephens Inc., said that even if
the securities offered by Ratners "were worth $17 at the time
of the offer {in early July}, recessions aren't good for the
jewelry business." Moreover, he said, if the deal goes
through, "Ratners is going to be a more highly leveraged"
company.
   Kay Jewelers is the nation's second-biggest seller of fine
jewelry, including diamonds, gold jewelry and watches. But
the company has been grappling for several months with
slackening demand, problems arising from its liberal credit
policies and a contraction of its bank credit lines.
   There is some concern that, since some of Kay Jewelers'
junk-bond holders are refusing to sell to Ratners, that the
merger won't go through. Under the terms of the acquisition
agreement, Ratners conditioned the deal on acquiring more
than half of each of Kay's two issues of junk bonds.
   Bondholders balked at Ratners's original offer of 75% of
face value, so the company recently increased the tender
offer to 90%. After Ratners did so, holders tendered about
91.5% of the $100 million issue of the company's notes due in
1999 but only 12.4% of the $50 million issue of notes due
1996.
   Technically, the deal could still be called off. But a
Ratners spokeswoman said that failure to get 50% of the
second bond issue "is not going to wreck the deal."
   Randy Hale, senior portfolio manager of Cincinnati
Financial Corp., which holds $1.5 million in Kay bonds, was
also confident the acquisition will take place. "Ratners has
committed large amounts of capital now," Mr. Hale said. "They
have bought those bonds. They didn't do that to become a
bond-portfolio manager."
   ---
   A GOOD SPORT: Peter Ueberroth, former commissioner of
major league baseball, recently increased his holdings in
Coca-Cola Co. by 40%, according to SEC filings.
   Mr. Ueberroth, a director of the Atlanta beverage giant,
paid $178,640, or an average price of $44.66 a share, for
4,000 Coca-Cola shares on Aug. 2. In New York Stock Exchange
trading Coca-Cola shares closed at $41.75 yesterday, up 12.5
cents.
   While Mr. Ueberroth serves as a director of 11 companies,
according to SEC filings, this was his first insider purchase
of stock this year. Mr. Ueberroth couldn't be reached for
comment.
   ---
   BANKING OUT WEST: Peter B. Bedford, real estate developer
and director of BankAmerica Corp., increased his holdings in
the San Francisco bank holding company by 40% with a recent
purchase of shares. SEC filings show he spent $397,500 on
20,000 shares in August.
   Mr. Bedford paid $19.875 a share for his new holdings. In
New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday, BankAmerica shares
closed at $22.125, up 75 cents.
   Mr. Bedford declined to comment. But his purchase comes at
a time of relatively good earnings and strong improvement in
BankAmerica's asset quality. For the second quarter, it
reported net income of $267 million, or $1.17 a share, down
from year-earlier earnings of $304 million, or $1.50 a share.
Analysts considered the results to be a slight improvement
over year-earlier figures, which were boosted by $44 million
from cash interest payments from Brazil that didn't recur in
the latest quarter. The bank holding company also said it
reduced its nonaccrual assets during the quarter by 21%, to
$3.1 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Computer Sciences Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   CSC
</CO>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -- Computer Sciences Corp. said it
received a $22.3 million contract to modernize the computer
systems of the Financial Management Service, a bureau of the
U.S. Treasury Department.
   The one-year contract includes options for nine annual
renewals, bringing the 10-year value of the contract to about
$48.8 million, Computer Sciences said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Leading Indicator Slips
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The leading indicator for June slipped to 54.5
from a revised 58.3 in May but remained above the so-called
boom-or-bust line of 50 for the fourth consecutive month, the
Economic Planning Agency said.
   The indicator shows the Japanese economy remains strong
after 45 months of continued expansion and should sustain
growth in the future, the agency said. A reading exceeding 50
signals economic expansion and a reading below that level
indicates possible contraction ahead.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rising construction activity is fueling continued strong
personal consumption and capital investment expenditures,
keeping the economy humming, an agency official said.
Meanwhile, prices remain in a stable range.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   NBC's TV Stations
   Testing a Revamp
   Of Evening News
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The NBC-owned television-stations division is
experimenting with some radical changes in the format of its
early-evening newscasts.
   The revamped newscast may lead to longer videotaped
reports -- perhaps as long as five minutes, compared with the
current average of two minutes -- and more live interviews of
newsmakers by the news anchor, not unlike ABC News's
"Nightline."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Staffers within the division said, however, they fear that
the changes, if implemented, may cause staff cuts because the
stations might not need as many reporters. National
Broadcasting Co., a unit of General Electric Co., owns six
stations and holds 49% of a station in Cleveland.
   Although NBC's stations operate independently, Al Jerome,
the division's president, has summoned general managers and
news directors of all the stations to a meeting Sept. 25 in
San Jose, Calif., to review audience research and a prototype
of an experimental newscast.
   The project, referred to internally as "Newscast for the
Nineties," has been under way since April and is headed by
Lee Hanna, a former news executive of the NBC-owned stations
division and former TV editor of the trade newspaper Variety.
   In an interview, Mr. Hanna confirmed the project but said,
"We're a year away from anything concrete. This is a yearlong
project to develop a new technique to deliver the news."
   Last night, WNBC, the NBC station in New York, was
scheduled to air about five reports on its 6 p.m. newscast
that could fit the mold of the project. For instance, a
report about crack-addicted infants who are now youngsters
and are entering schools was scheduled to run more than four
minutes, an eternity for broadcast journalism. The report
focused on whether New York's Board of Education is prepared
to teach these children.
   Mr. Hanna denies that NBC would need fewer reporters if
the experiment is implemented. "If anything we'll need more
because it takes longer to produce a five-minute piece," he
said.
   Most of the reports videotaped for the experimental
newscast recently were previewed by six focus groups. "We
wanted to get a feel of things that were of interest to
people," Mr. Hanna said.
   The moves come as ratings for several of the NBC stations
are declining, although the NBC network has enjoyed five
consecutive years as No. 1, according to the audience-rating
company A.C. Nielsen Co. For example, ratings for WNBC's 6
p.m. newscast fell 14% in May from the previous year, and the
11 p.m. newcast's ratings dropped 6%.
   Newscasts are vital to local stations because they provide
most of the stations' revenues.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   After Iraq's `Betrayal,' Moscow Treads Lightly
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- Shortly before Iraqi troops swept into Kuwait
early this month, Saddam Hussein sent a message of assurance
to Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev that Iraq wasn't about
to invade its Gulf neighbor, according to Arab diplomats in
Moscow.
   It was an outright lie that has caused deep consternation
in Moscow. Speaking to Soviet military officers last week,
Mr. Gorbachev sharply denounced Saddam Hussein's "betrayal of
trust" -- a charge frequently repeated by Soviet officials
and the media in their condemnation of the Iraqi attack.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The feeling of being grossly deceived by one of its
foremost Middle East allies has played an important role in
shaping Moscow's reaction to the crisis, particularly its
sanctioning of military force to implement the economic
embargo against Iraq. At the same time, Arab and Western
diplomats here say that Soviet indignation is tempered by a
strong desire to forge new alliances in the Middle East
without abandoning old friends.
   Thus, as the U.S. uses its military muscle in an attempt
to drive Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait, the Soviets have
adopted a more cautious, even-handed position.
   While happy to be cooperating with the U.S. in this
post-Cold War conflict, Moscow is also eager to be viewed in
the Middle East as an independent player. Rather than turning
its back on diplomacy, it is strongly encouraging efforts to
find a political solution to the crisis. And all the while,
it is looking to use the Iraqi invasion to boost its
influence in the Arab world.
   "In a sense, they are trying to have good relations with
everyone," says one Arab ambassador in Moscow. "They're
keeping the door open."
   Given such a policy, the Soviets are deeply reluctant to
become involved militarily in the Persian Gulf. Foreign
Minister Eduard Shevardnadze has said Moscow doesn't plan on
sending forces to implement the embargo. But he didn't rule
out joining a multilateral military force if the United
Nations agreed to dispatch one.
   Some Westerners believe Moscow is so angry with Saddam
Hussein that it could be nudged into taking such action.
After meeting Messrs. Gorbachev and Shevardnadze over the
weekend, France's Foreign Minister Roland Dumas described
Soviet policy as one of taking "a few steps at a time." While
the Soviet president wants a peaceful settlement through firm
execution of U.N. resolutions and good coordination with Arab
nations, "he didn't rule out measures of coercion against
Iraq," Mr. Dumas told reporters.
   The Iraqi invasion came at a critical time for Soviet
policy makers. For months, Moscow has made strenuous efforts
to improve its ties with moderate Arab nations such as Egypt
and Saudi Arabia. At the same time, it has been treating its
traditional, radical allies in the region -- Iraq, Libya,
Syria and the Palestine Liberation Organization -- more
coolly.
   The latest Gulf crisis has brought this nascent policy
shift clearly into the open, and seems likely to give it a
big impetus. In the past few days, Moscow has hosted the
Egyptian foreign minister and a special envoy of Saudi
Arabia, with whom the Soviets don't have diplomatic
relations. The Saudi visit came only weeks after Moscow for
the first time allowed Soviet Moslem pilgrims to travel to
the holy city of Mecca.
   Moreover, following the Iraqi invasion, the Soviet media
have resounded with strong criticism of past Kremlin policy
in the Middle East, particularly the practice of arming
unreliable dictators.
   "Didn't we bind our hands by declaring `friendship and
cooperation'? Haven't we been too unscrupulous in the choice
of our friends?" asked Alexander Bovin, a foreign-policy
commentator in the government daily Izvestia last week. "In
general it would be sensible to review the list of countries
and people with whom the U.S.S.R. maintains privileged
relations."
   Mr. Bovin said the Soviet leadership has long had
misgivings about Iraq's Mr. Hussein, particularly regarding
the rationale for his war with Iran. Nonetheless it continued
to provide Baghdad with huge amounts of military hardware.
Thanks to glasnost, or the policy of openness, the Soviets
have for the first time given the public -- and the Pentagon
-- a list of the weapons supplied.
   According to a senior military official, Lt. Gen. Vladimir
Nikityuk, they include T-72 tanks, infantry fighting
vehicles, self-propelled 122mm and 152mm howitzers,
anti-aircraft missile systems, MiG-23 and MiG-29 fighter
planes, helicopters and equipment such as gas masks and
protective suits for use in chemical warfare. All this was
provided to the Iraqis under a 1972 treaty of friendship and
cooperation between the two nations.
   With the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, these weapons weigh
heavily on the Soviet conscience. In explaining his support
for the U.N.-backed embargo, Mr. Gorbachev said that "it
would be unacceptable for us to react in any other way
because this aggression has been committed with the use of
arms that we agreed to sell to Iraq solely for the purposes
of defense, and not for the seizure of others' territory or
of entire countries."
   Arab diplomats in Moscow say the Soviet leader's evident
embarrassment is likely to have an impact on Moscow's
relations with Libya, and possibly the Palestine Liberation
Organization. "Under perestroika, the Soviets don't want Arab
radicals jeopardizing their relations with the U.S.," says
one senior Arab official. "They're looking at their
traditional allies and asking what the support gets them
apart from a bad reputation."
   Mr. Gorbachev is certainly acting as a man with a
grievance. Last Friday he gave Saddam Hussein just 90 minutes
to respond to a message ordering Iraq to respect U.N.
resolutions and pull out of Kuwait. When no reply came, the
Soviets voted in the U.N. Security Council to enforce the
embargo with military means.
   Yet at the same time, Moscow seems unwilling to sever the
ties to Iraq and other allies. Mr. Shevardnadze gave Iraq's
deputy prime minister a careful hearing when he visited the
Soviet Union, though officials subsequently denied that there
had been a change of Soviet position. And even Mr. Gorbachev
is careful to say that his wrath is aimed at Saddam Hussein,
and not the Iraqi people.
   "My colleagues and I are concerned that it is more
difficult to build a relationship with a country than to try
to break it up," Col. Valentin Ogurtsov, a senior Defense
Ministry official, told reporters. "It isn't easy for us to
move from full-fledged relations to zero."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Maytag Corp. Agrees
   To Pay Partial Refunds
   On Repaired Ovens
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   MYG
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Maytag Corp. has agreed to distribute partial
refunds to customers who bought reconditioned Magic Chef
microwave ovens thinking they were new.
   Since 1987, as many as 50,000 people throughout the U.S.
have bought repackaged and reconditioned Magic Chef ovens
returned by other customers, at prices ranging from $80 to
$160. In a proposed settlement of three lawsuits against
Maytag, the manufacturer agreed to give each such customer
$25 in cash and a $10 certificate toward purchase of other
Magic Chef products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the settlement proposal, which was tentatively approved
by a U.S. District Court judge in Birmingham, Ala., Maytag
denied the reconditioned ovens posed any health or safety
hazard to buyers, a company spokeswoman said. The company
also has agreed to halt the practice of reconditioning ovens,
she said. Not all Magic Chef microwave ovens the company sold
were reconditioned, and no reconditioned ovens were sold
under the company's other brand names, the spokeswoman said.
   Maytag agreed to pay as much as $300,000 to the Alabama
attorney general's office and a Birmingham law firm, which
filed the suits against the company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Retail Sales Rose in July
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Maintaining a steady trend upward, sales at
Japan's department stores and other major retail stores in
July rose 9% from a year earlier to 2.059 trillion yen
($14.29 billion), the Ministry of International Trade and
Industry said.
   Though the pace of growth slowed from rises of 11.9% in
June and 10.4% in May, ministry officials said the latest
statistics indicate Japan's personal consumption remains
strong and continues to support economic growth.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Personal spending is a key to Japan's economic expansion,
accounting for nearly 60% of its gross national product, or
the total output of goods and services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hoechst, GE Units End Dispute
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   G.HFA GE
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOMERVILLE, N.J. -- The Hoechst Celanese Corp. unit of
Hoechst AG of West Germany and the General Electric Plastics
unit of General Electric Co., Fairfield, Conn., said they
agreed to end patent infringement lawsuits that the companies
had filed against each other in a three-year dispute about
rights to certain formulations of polyester-based plastics.
   The companies also granted each other rights to market
certain polyester materials under applicable patents. Other
settlement terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fluor Daniel Unit Gets 2 Jobs
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   FLR VLO
</CO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Fluor Daniel Inc., the principal
engineering and construction unit of Fluor Corp., said it was
awarded two contracts, one valued at more than $200 million
from a unit of Valero Energy Co., San Antonio, Texas, and the
other valued at $50 million from Chilean Los Pelambres
Copper.
   The contract from Valero Refining Co. is for a
20,000-barrel-a-day hydrotreater, 27,000-barrel-a-day
catalytic reformer and 25,000-barrel-a-day hydrocracker at
Valero's Corpus Christi, Texas, refinery, with completion
scheduled for early 1992. The Chilean job is for a molybdenum
processing plant near Santiago, a 4,500-ton-a-day facility
scheduled for late 1991 completion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Retailers Begin Belt-Tightening Early
   As Christmas Forecast Is Mostly Cloudy
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MZ
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   With a recession looming, retailers are scrambling to trim
holiday buying plans.
   Many are ordering later than usual. They want to avoid
getting caught with too much merchandise if already-cautious
consumers start tightening up. They also hope to wring lower
prices out of jittery suppliers -- and pass the savings along
to holiday shoppers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consider ClothesTime Inc. The off-price clothing chain,
based in Anaheim, Calif., gave its troops new marching orders
a week after Saddam Hussein sent his troops into Kuwait: Wait
until mid-September to start making commitments for most
Christmas merchandise.
   "We're going to hold, hold, hold back," says Norman
Abramson, president.
   Industry executives say some chains are canceling orders
for everything from apparel to televisions. Others are
considering trimming staff. But most retail executives say
they're making contingency plans to slash prices and hype
holiday bargains.
   For shoppers, this is good news. "Manufacturers and
retailers are going to absorb any price increases," predicts
Kurt Barnard, who publishes a retail industry newsletter. "If
there's any indication that the public is staying home," he
adds, "you'll see an avalanche of sales."
   Some retailers, in fact, are bracing for a repeat of last
fall's bloody price wars. At the time, cash-starved Campeau
Corp. units such as Bloomingdale's and Abraham &amp; Straus
triggered a wave of discounting that buoyed sales but hurt
industry profits. Store executives fear debt-laden R.H. Macy
&amp; Co. could be the culprit this year. Already, they note,
Macy's is discounting heavily in an apparent attempt to
pre-empt competitors with sales of fall merchandise.
   "It's going to be a very tough Christmas," predicts retail
consultant Walter K. Levy.
   It's already been a tough year. Sales have been sluggish
for months, especially in New York and New England. The
Campeau chains and Ames Department Stores Inc., a big
discounter, sought bankruptcy court protection. So did
Garfinckel's, an old-line department store in Washington,
D.C.
   Some industry executives had hoped consumers would spend
more freely in the second half of the year, but that seems
unlikely now. Fears of a war in the Middle East and a
recession at home can only damp consumers' spirits at a time
when retailers can least afford it: The Christmas season
typically accounts for a third of a store's annual sales and
half of profits.
   For small chains and independent retailers, "it will be a
make-or-break Christmas," says Thomas Tashjian, an analyst at
Seidler Amdec Securities Inc.
   It's difficult to assess whether the Persian Gulf crisis
has hurt retailers because the chains aren't scheduled to
report August sales figures until after Labor Day. But the
Conference Board, a nonprofit research organization, says its
consumer confidence index dropped sharply in August to its
lowest level in more than seven years, suggesting that a
falloff in spending is imminent. Confidence plunged more in
August than in the period following the 1987 stock market
crash, the Conference Board says.
   Richard L. Sharp, chief executive of Circuit City Stores
Inc., contends that some retailers are overreacting to the
crisis. But he acknowledges, "We're taking a somewhat more
conservative view."
   J.C. Penney Co. Chairman William R. Howell's is also
circumspect. Penney, he says, is keeping "a tight rein on
costs and a close watch on inventory levels." A spokesman
acknowledges that "we're obviously going to have to be
promotional if the economy does turn softer."
   Mr. Barnard, the newsletter publisher, sees a more ominous
trend. He says executives at more than a dozen chains have
told him privately that they're considering "the strong
likelihood" of canceling orders. Manufacturers surveyed by
Mr. Barnard also fear order cancellations, he says.
   Bernard Brennan, chairman of Montgomery Ward &amp; Co., says
some chains are already canceling orders. And he should know.
His holiday strategy? "Playing it very tight so we can buy
opportunistically" and offer more special deals, he says.
"There is more merchandise readily available today than there
has been in the past," he adds.
   Some stores are tightening more than inventories. One
industry executive who requested anonymity said his chain
expects to fire 8% to 10% of its employees in the next few
weeks. "We have A, B and C plans," the executive added. "If
sales don't materialize, the next step will be another 8% to
10%."
   For now, though, most chains are concentrating on pricing
and promotional plans. Chicago-based Montgomery Ward, which
says sales so far this month exceed last year's by 9%,
nonetheless started hyping special buys called "chairman's
choice" items four months ago. The prices are low, Mr.
Brennan says, because Montgomery Ward agrees to buy large
quantities from manufacturers at special prices. Current
chairman's choice items include sapphire rings, which the
company claims it is offering at 60% off until Sept. 19.
   A Ward's advertising circular in this past Sunday's paper
also blasted the off-price message on every page, including
those pages devoted to back-to-school items such as jeans,
sneakers and kids' underwear that aren't usually marked down
so early.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Family Slide Show
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   There we are at Mount Rushmore
   (That's where Billy's back got sore).
   And this was our trip to Disneyland
   (While changing a tire, Dad cut his hand).
   That's Anne on the roof of the Alamo
   (Just before she fell and broke her toe).
   Here's the Statue of Liberty, from the ferry
   (On which Mom got seasick, very).
   Our vacation slide show commentary
   Reads like a medical dictionary.
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   ---
   Role Reversals
                                                                                                       

   As age barriers show signs of ending,
   Folks engage in some quite odd pursuits,
   With young whiz kids now running corporations --
   While retirees take newspaper routes.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   Daffynition
                                                                                                       

   Gossips: belittle leaguers.
   -- John Dromey.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LAB NOTES
   ----
   By Amal Kumar Naj
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TX
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tree Chemicals May
   Help Root Out Oil
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   CERTAIN CHEMICALS in trees may slash the cost of
recovering untapped oil from the ground.
   Texaco researchers say tree chemicals known as lignins can
be converted into "surfactants" to flush oil from hard-to-get
pockets in oil reservoirs. Surfactants used in chemical
flooding are similar to household detergents that attach
themselves to oil.
   Petroleum-based surfactants currently used are economical
only when oil costs $35 or more a barrel, says Douglas Naae,
one of the researchers. But lignin-derived surfactants are
40% cheaper and would be economical with oil as low as $25,
he says. (West Texas intermediate crude traded yesterday at
$27.90.)
   Lignins, a plentiful byproduct of the paper industry, are
usually burned to generate energy for that industry. The
Texaco researchers say they've developed two types of
chemicals from lignins for use in oil recovery. One combines
lignins with a nitrogen-containing chemical produced from
animal tallow; the other is made by having lignins react with
hydrogen or carbon monoxide.
   The researchers say more than 300 billion barrels of crude
oil in the U.S., or more than 100 years of domestic supply,
could be extracted if economical methods were developed for
their recovery. About half of this could be recovered using
lignins, they say.
                                                                                                       

   Rain Stops the Radon --
   But Only Temporarily
                                                                                                       

   RAIN CAN sharply increase the level of indoor radon,
according to a study.
   A group of researchers from George Mason University in
Fairfax, Va., found that moisture can be the biggest
determinant of the radon level in a house. The moisture traps
radon in the soil, so the radioactive gas accumulates below
the house. When the moisture evaporates, the soil releases
the gas in heavy concentrations. The higher the saturation of
moisture in the ground, the heavier the subsequent emission
of radon.
   Douglas Mose, one of the researchers, says the findings
cast doubt on the validity of federal and state guidelines
for taking radon measurements. He says the guidelines advise
homeowners and potential home buyers who want to check radon
levels in the summer to close the windows of the house
beforehand. The assumption is that radon levels are higher in
winter than in summer, when windows are often open.
   But the readings may also be skewed by the level of
precipitation, Mr. Mose says. To be meaningful, he says, the
measurements should be taken in times of relatively normal
weather.
   Mr. Mose and George Mushrush, both at the university's
Center of Basic and Applied Science, took radon measurements
in 1,500 homes in northern Virginia and southern Maryland in
the summers of 1987 and 1988. In 1987, when rainfall was low,
radon levels in the basements of the homes averaged three
picoCuries per liter of air; the next summer, when rainfall
had been heavier, the average was four picoCuries.
   Mr. Mose says a similar pattern was found in winter. Under
federal health standards, a level below four picoCuries is
considered safe. Radon gas, the result of soil radiation,
irritates the lungs as it decays and has been associated with
lung cancer.
                                                                                                       

   Electronic Circuits
   Made Quick 'n' Easy
                                                                                                       

   PRODUCTION of microelectronic circuits is simplified by a
new polymer.
   A group of researchers at the University of California,
Berkeley, says it has developed a plastic film on which tiny
circuits can be printed directly. Now, circuits are etched on
silicon wafers, a process involving six to 10 steps.
   "The polymer does away with this laborious process," says
Bruce Novak, one of the researchers. When a laser beam hits
the polymer, the lines it draws become permanently conducting
circuit "wires," leaving unexposed areas as insulators.
   Mr. Novak says the polymer was developed by modifying the
chemical structure of an existing polymer. He says it was the
first time a polymer has been made electrically conductive by
light. Previously, that had been done only chemically, he
says. "Polymers have been thought of as only insulating and
encapsulating materials, but a new class of polymers is
emerging," he says.
                                                                                                       

   Getting Fish to Spawn
   In Captive Waters
                                                                                                       

   RESEARCHERS have developed hormonelike compounds that
stimulate fish to spawn in captivity.
   Though fish farming is growing rapidly, several
commercially important species have been left out because
they don't spawn in captivity or do so unpredictably. Without
proper water depth, temperature, salinity and other factors
from the wild, the pituitary gland doesn't release
gonadotropin, the main hormone controlling the development of
eggs.
   Yonathan Zohar of Israel's National Center for Mariculture
and Robert Langer of the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology recently synthesized "analogs" of a compound that
triggers the release of gonadotropin. The analogs resist
kidney and liver degradation, they say, in contrast to
injected gonadotropin.
   When the analogs were first used, however, they were only
partly effective. So, the researchers developed time-release
systems: The analogs are either molded into tiny spheres to
be injected into the fish, or packaged in small biodegradable
polymer rods or disks that are inserted under the fish's
skin.
   The method has induced spawning in Atlantic and Pacific
salmon, rainbow trout, sea bream, sea bass and gray mullet.
The researchers say the technique could also be used to
induce out-of-season spawning.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Video Jukebox Network Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS JUKE
</CO>
<LP>
   VIDEO JUKEBOX NETWORK Inc. (Miami) -- This interactive
television company named as directors Trygve E. Myhren,
former chairman and chief executive officer of American
Television &amp; Communications Corp.; Jules Haimovitz, president
and chief operating officer of Spelling Entertainment Inc.;
and David O. Deutch, assistant vice president, corporate
banking, at the Southeast Bank unit of Southeast Banking
Corp., increasing board membership to seven. Two of the board
posts are new; the third appointment fills a vacancy created
by the resignation of Michael J. Cooper.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Donnelley's $487.5 Million Acquisition
   Of Meredith/Burda Is Cleared by Judge
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MDP DNY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   R.R. Donnelley &amp; Sons Co. planned $487.5 million
acquisition of a commercial-printing venture got clearance
from a federal judge, who brushed aside Federal Trade
Commission arguments that the combination would violate
antitrust law.
   Donnelley, the U.S.'s biggest commercial printer, agreed
in December to acquire Meredith/Burda Cos., a joint venture
owned by Meredith Corp. and members of West Germany's Burda
family.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After a lengthy review, the FTC last month asked the
federal court for the District of Columbia to bar the
purchase. The agency said it had "reason to believe" the
acquisition "could substantially reduce competition in
high-volume publication rotogravure printing" in the U.S. The
so-called gravure printing process represents only about 16%
of all U.S. printing and is overshadowed by a different
technology known as offset printing.
   Judge Stanley S. Harris declined to issue the injunction,
writing that "any anti-competitive consequences arising out
of the proposed acquisition (are) highly unlikely."
   The FTC said it plans to appeal the ruling, Donnelley
said. FTC officials couldn't be reached for comment.
   If the deal had been blocked, neither Meredith nor
Donnelley would have suffered serious damage. While the
Meredith/Burda agreement would mark the largest acquisition
ever for Donnelley, the growth-minded Chicago company is
considered well positioned to make other purchases.
   Meredith, the Des Moines, Iowa, publisher of magazines
including Ladies' Home Journal and Better Homes and Gardens,
said when the agreement was reached that it would consider a
share-repurchase plan with proceeds from the planned sale, as
well as possible acquisitions and new magazines.
   In composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday,
Meredith shares climbed $1.50 to close at $24.50; Donnelley
shares slipped 37.5 cents to close at $39.
   The FTC's challenge of the acquisition had been seen as a
further sign of the commission's recent tougher stand on
proposed mergers, compared with the relatively passive
posture it took when dominated by appointees of former
President Reagan.
   The FTC's position "might have had considerable validity
10 or even five years ago," Judge Harris wrote. But
technological developments have permitted printers to use the
offset method for printing magazines, catalogs and
advertising inserts that are "indistinguishable" from those
printed by the gravure method.
   Judge Harris also said customers of commercial-printing
operations are sophisticated and possess substantial
bargaining power, even in markets where competition is
limited.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Why Is Author
   Down on the Farm?
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   James Bovard's `Apologists for the Farm Lobby" (editorial
page, July 24) left this farmer guessing again. Who is this
James Bovard? What is the Cato Institute? Why does he get to
express his views about U.S. agriculture all the time?
   Mr. Bovard enjoys telling how much the American consumer
is paying in higher food costs. Yet the efficiencies of the
U.S. farm sector have allowed people to leave the farm and
pursue other professions -- such as being an "analyst."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Jack Dailey
   Boeuf Prairie Farm
   Extension, Louisiana
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Suburban Hocus-Pocus; Teen Lovemaking
   ----
   By Bruce Bawer
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<LP>
   It's the summer of 1959, and Nora Silk, the divorced
heroine of Alice Hoffman's "Seventh Heaven" (Putnam, 256
pages, $19.95), has decided to turn in her modest Manhattan
flat for a fixer-upper on Long Island's south shore. There
she hopes to make friends and to start a new life for
herself, her two small sons, and her cat.
   But Nora's mundane, convention-bound neighbors on Hemlock
Street -- yes, Hemlock Street -- don't exactly roll out the
red carpet. To them, Nora's marital status, funky
beauty-parlor job and lack of homemaking skills are major
turnoffs. Seven-year-old Billy gets even worse treatment: His
classmates torment him, and, noting Nora's fondness for
unorthodox black garb, brand her a witch.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And guess what? She is a witch. When a kid beats up Billy,
Nora molds a wax doll and melts off a bit of its legs; the
next morning, the bully is a head shorter. Other neighbors --
apparently under Nora's mystical influence, or inspired by
her iconoclasm -- behave unexpectedly. A fat housewife slims
down and deserts her family; a high-school valedictorian runs
off to Florida to try out for the Yankees.
   Through all this, there's hardly a ripple in Ms. Hoffman's
placid tone. Nor is there much in the way of plot
development. The magical events happen in isolation, without
payoff. Inexplicably, nobody but the bully realizes that he's
shrunk, and though he's devastated he keeps it to himself.
   What's Ms. Hoffman's point -- that suburbanites don't
communicate? Manifestly, she means to say something about the
suburbs, and about what Robert Lowell called the
"tranquillized Fifties." But what? It's never clear. If on
one page Ms. Hoffman waxes rhapsodic about suburbia, on the
next she sneers at it. Time and again she works against her
own strengths, undermining a fresh portrait of middle-class
life with cheap, familiar sarcasm and subverting potentially
credible characters with occult poppycock.
   Which brings us to the $64,000 question: Why all the
hocus-pocus? Reviewers have lauded Ms. Hoffman for perceiving
"the magic in the mundane." But it's one thing to perceive
magic in the mundane, another to graft it on. At times Nora
appears to be intended as a harbinger of post-'50s womanhood
-- with witchcraft, naturally, as an emblem of female
empowerment. But this reading doesn't really work, for Nora
sells Tupperware and has, after all, moved to the suburbs.
Ultimately, try as one might, one can't make the commonplace
and supernatural elements of "Seventh Heaven" cohere.
   ---
   Like "Seventh Heaven," Matthew Stadler's "Landscape:
Memory" (Scribners, 301 pages, $19.95) tells a fantastic
story about an extraordinary protagonist. Set in northern
California in 1914-16, this remarkable first novel takes the
form of a diary kept by Max Kosegarten, a brilliant
16-year-old whose affluent, progressive-minded parents have
given him a first-rate humanistic education.
   Max, who conceives of his diary as a "book about memory,"
is fascinated by the mutability of his recollections and
eager to fix his experiences in words. He is the
quintessential adolescent prodigy-ardent, conceited,
heartbreakingly earnest, at once charmingly naive and
unsettlingly smart, intense in his responsiveness both to
abstract ideas and to the world's physicality, avid in his
desire to embrace life and to conquer its mysteries.
   Among those mysteries, of course, is sex, which Max
discovers during an idyllic summer at the Bolinas shore. It
is there that Max and his friend Duncan become lovers -- a
development that the boys' friends and parents curiously
don't even blink at. Roughly translated, Kosegarten means
"garden of lovemaking," and Mr. Stadler describes both the
affair and its setting in utterly Edenic terms.
   Objectively, these happenings strain credulity. But
"Landscape: Memory" doesn't pretend to be realistic. Like the
intellectually and erotically charged fiction of Guy
Davenport, it takes place on a more symbolic plane than your
typical coming-of-age novel. The Bolinas section is
particularly indebted to Mr. Davenport's recent stories,
among them "Apples and Pears," set in a utopian community of
love-happy young Danes. Both writers in turn derive many of
their ideas from the French philosopher Charles Fourier
(1772-1837), who argued that sexual freedom (preferably
against an idyllic backdrop) was the key to social harmony.
   Yet Mr. Stadler depicts Fourieristic bliss only to
underscore its impossibility. His aim is not merely to
proffer romantic fantasies but to reflect upon some of life's
harder facts: that youth is a time of unattainable ideals,
adulthood a time of grim realities, and memory and art
forever imperfectible.
   Mr. Stadler does this with a level of artistry and
assurance rarely seen in so unseasoned a writer. To be sure,
his novel has its failings: The exuberant prose is often too
lush; Duncan's sketchy post-Bolinas motives lend a touch of
contrivance to the final pages. Yet these are minor cavils
about a passionate and intelligent novel that, in an era of
tame, arid Brat Pack fictions, is cause for celebration.
   ---
   Mr. Bawer is a literary critic living in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Saudi Leaders
   Seeking to Buy
   Arms From U.S.
   ---
   Long-Term Security Cited;
   Permanent World Force
   To Keep Peace Debated
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   RIYADH, Saudi Arabia -- Confident that threats of imminent
Iraqi invasions have been neutralized, Saudi leaders want to
purchase about $9 billion of U.S. arms as part of a plan to
ensure their country's long-term security.
   Another element of the plan that is taking shape,
according to U.S. and Saudi officials, is to possibly create
a permanent international peace-keeping force in order to
deter Iraqi aggression in the future.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Details of the new strategy are still being debated among
top military and government officials here, though a senior
Saudi general described the broad goals of the initiative
during a news conference yesterday.
   Lt. Gen. Khalid bin Sultan, commander of the Saudi-Arab
forces deployed nearest the Kuwaiti border, said the
long-term priority is "to make sure the security of Saudi
Arabia will be guaranteed now and into the future."
   While he played down the likelihood of a permanent,
large-scale U.S. military presence in Saudi Arabia, Gen.
Khalid stressed that his country "will have to have more
weapons to use" to avoid another such crisis. "There's lots
of discussion with the U.S. and other countries . . . about
how to strengthen our forces," he said, adding pointedly:
"The lesson is learned."
   No matter how the crisis is resolved, some Saudi leaders
believe it is important to have at least a small tripwire of
Arab forces remaining in Saudi Arabia to ensure against Iraqi
aggression. But the size of such a proposed force and who
would command it are still under review, and the final
proposal may not be made for some time.
   The Saudi wish list for weapons includes F-15 Eagle jet
fighters, M-1 tanks and Bradley armored vehicles, all
equipment that U.S. forces brought with them to defend the
kingdom. In fact, one Saudi official said, the U.S. probably
will be asked to sell a portion of the equipment already on
the ground here to avoid the cost and delay of shipping new
weapons from the U.S. to Saudi Arabia.
   Saudi officials have been quietly urging Defense Secretary
Dick Cheney and other Bush administration officials to
approve major weapons sales quickly, although it isn't clear
whether the Saudis want the most sophisticated F-15e model
jet fighters or even whether any formal request for arms
sales has been given to the White House.
   Meanwhile, congressional sources told the Associated Press
that the U.S. will sell nearly $3 billion in new weapons to
Saudi Arabia, including 24 F-15 fighter planes and 150 M-60
tanks. The sale is designed to strengthen Saudi defenses, and
further sales are possible, according to the sources.
   The issue is bound to create friction with Israel, which
is concerned about the total size of the Saudi air force and
especially the long-range, precision ground attack
capabilities of the F-15e, which is built by McDonnell
Douglas Corp.
   Without giving specifics, Gen. Khalid told reporters that
Saudi forces "are capable of handling any kind of weapon."
   Before meeting with King Fahd last week, Secretary Cheney
said the U.S. wasn't considering selling F-15e fighters to
Saudi Arabia. But other Pentagon officials have suggested
that policy could change over the next few weeks or months if
the Saudis maintain they need the planes to protect their
country and free some U.S. forces to return home.
   Eventually, the Saudi plan envisions that nearly all U.S.
troops will depart and that the country's 66,000-man armed
forces will increase sharply. Saudi Arabia currently spends
about one-third of its budget on its military.
   Nearly a month after American forces began to arrive, the
U.S. and Saudi governments still haven't agreed on a
detailed, binding agreement spelling out the relationship
between their forces. Soldiers from Morocco, Egypt and
several other Arab and Islamic countries are under the direct
command of Gen. Khalid, but U.S. forces aren't.
   To some extent, however, Saudi leaders such as Gen.
Khalid, a close relative of King Fahd, appear to be a
restraining influence on the U.S. military response to Iraq.
During the news conference, the general stressed that the
buildup of U.S. firepower was intended primarily to protect
Saudi oil reserves. "We are here to prevent war," he said. If
any offensive action against Iraq is launched from Saudi
soil, Gen. Khalid said, "I know for a fact it has to be
consulted between King Fahd and President Bush."
   Even when Saudis step up their rhetoric against Iraq, they
often go out of their way to emphasize that diplomatic
efforts are on the front burner.
   "I believe that Saddam Hussein will be destroyed unless he
comes to his senses," withdraws from Kuwait, and restores the
royal family to power, Gen. Khalid said in his first news
conference with Western reporters. But almost in the same
breath, he added: "We have to give the diplomats' efforts a
chance to work."
   ---
   John J. Fialka contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Immunex Refines Gene-Splicing Method
   To Enable Making of Biological `Cocktail'
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   IMNX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Doctors long have believed that the best way to administer
new disease-fighting biological agents would be to combine
them in "cocktails" that mimic the way the human body uses
them in nature.
   Now, Immunex Corp., a biotechnology company based in
Seattle, has taken that concept one step further. Having used
gene-splicing techniques to produce biologicals in yeast
cells, the company now has refined its gene-splicing
techniques to enable yeast to churn out a sort of pre-mixed
biological cocktail.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The cocktail, named PIXY-321, is what Immunex calls a
fusion molecule. The fusion molecule melds two therapeutic
proteins that stimulate the growth of blood cells in patients
whose bone marrow has been damaged by radiation or
chemotherapy. While the two drugs are being tested as
single-agent drugs, scientists suggest they may work even
better when given in combination. Immunex says its studies
suggest that the benefits of combination may be boosted
tenfold by using the fusion molecule.
   Immunex scientists Douglas Williams and Linda Park are
scheduled to disclose their findings today at a meeting of
the International Society for Experimental Hematology in
Seattle.
   The two drugs that form the fusion protein are:
interleukin-3 (IL-3), which acts upon the bone marrow very
early in the formation of blood cells; and GM-CSF, which acts
much later in the cycle of blood cell development and
maturation. GM-CSF stands for granulocyte-macrophage colony
stimulating factor.
   One outside expert who has conducted tests using the two
drugs together is James O. Armitage, professor and vice
chairman, Department of Internal Medicine at the University
of Nebraska.
   "Results of preliminary studies using GM-CSF in
combination with IL-3 have been very promising. If the fusion
molecule enhances those effects, this could be a discovery
that offers huge advantages over {such} therapies, as we
currently understand them," he said.
   Steven Gillis, Immunex executive vice president and
director of research, said in an interview that the company's
primate studies show the fusion protein can spark a more
rapid increase in blood platelets and white blood cells than
when its two protein components are given in sequence.
   Further, he added, when Immunex bathed human cells in the
test tube with PIXY-321, both red cells and white cells
responded with 10 times more growth than they had when
exposed to the two proteins either singly or in combination.
   Mr. Gillis said he believes the enhanced blossoming of the
blood cells results from a new receptor that Immunex
scientists are studying. Normally, proteins are believed to
trigger activity by attaching to a unique receptor or target
on the surface of cells it wants to grow or become active.
   "We discovered that there are receptors on the surface of
white blood cells that would bind to both IL-3 and GM-CSF --
a sort of dual receptor. We thought if we could make a fusion
molecule that would bind to several receptors at once -- the
IL-3 receptor, the GM-CSF receptor and the dual receptor --
we could generate a stronger signal {prompting blood cells to
grow}, and hence, greater therapeutic activity."
   All of this remains to be proven in patients, of course.
Immunex now is engaged in formal safety analysis of the
fusion protein, and hopes to enter the drug in human clinical
trials sometime next year, Mr. Gillis said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stotler Collapse
   Prompts CFTC
   To Review Rules
   ----
   By Sandra Block and Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   SG
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The recent collapse of Stotler Group Inc.
has prompted the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to
consider new rules governing transfers of accounts within
futures firms, CFTC officials said.
   The Stotler case has raised questions over the regulation
of managed futures funds, which are like mutual funds
invested in the futures markets. An audit of Stotler Funds
Inc. three months ago by regulators revealed a questionable
$5.5 million transfer to Stotler Group, the firm's holding
company, of customer money that was supposed to be invested
in the futures market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But no action was taken against Stotler Funds until after
the cash-hungry parent defaulted on payments to one of the
funds and other lenders July 26. At that point, Stotler Funds
halted customer redemptions from the fund. The CFTC has since
charged that Stotler Funds violated antifraud laws by lending
the $5.5 million.
   Stotler Group was forced to seek bankruptcy-law protection
from its creditors this week after the commodity funds in
which the $5.5 million was invested forced the holding
company into involuntary bankruptcy proceedings.
   CFTC officials didn't elaborate on what kind of rules they
are considering.
   At a CFTC board meeting yesterday, officials also said
they planned to consider new rules governing the transfer of
customer accounts by futures firms that are on the verge of
failing.
   The agency wants to focus on rules for notifying affected
customers, documentation in connection with bulk transfers,
the effect of a futures firm's closing on guarantee
arrangements and requirements for notifying the CFTC.
   "Moving accounts from a firm as large as Stotler is a
Herculean task," Andrea Corcoran, head of the CFTC'S trading
and markets division, said during the meeting.
   The CFTC isn't alone in its quest to obtain more
information from the parent companies of brokerage firms. The
Securities and Exchange Commission is pushing for passage of
a bill that would expand its authority to monitor the
financial situation of holding companies of securities firms.
   CFTC board members voted to approve the staff's plan to
proceed with the rule reviews, which are expected to result
in recommendations for new rules early next year. "This comes
at a very good time, while it {the Stotler collapse} is fresh
in our minds, to go back and search for the weakest link,"
Commissioner Kalo Hineman said.
   Separately, the CFTC approved a rule proposed by the
National Futures Association that will raise the minimum
capital requirement for futures firms to $250,000 from
$50,000.
   A CFTC official said the change probably won't affect
large futures firms but may affect some small "boutique"
firms that enter the futures business without a large amount
of capital.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Real Estate --
   Wintry Northeast Housing Market's Toll:
   Brokers Toil Long, Use Tricks, Give Up
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   For real estate brokers in the Northeast, the mid-'80s
seem a long time gone.
   "I called it the Reebok era, because all you needed was a
pair of Reeboks and a pen," says Richard DeWolfe, a
Lexington, Mass., broker who operates a string of 25 sales
offices in eastern Massachusetts and New Hampshire. "Whoever
got to the customer fastest got the commission."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These days, a pair of good hiking boots with crampons
might do better. The pitfalls of a soft market are testing
brokers' inventiveness and stretching their work hours.
   Thousands of brokers have just given up. In the past year
alone, the membership in the Connecticut Association of
Realtors has dropped 12%; in Massachusetts, 11%; and in New
Jersey, almost 10%. New York membership is off 7% since
January.
   In no other region did the market grow so rapidly or drop
so abruptly. In 1986, at the height of the Northeastern real
estate boom, 703,000 single-family homes were sold in the
region encompassing New England, New York, New Jersey, and
Pennsylvania, double the volume in 1981. But by 1989, the
volume had slipped to 589,000. This year, it has continued to
fall.
   Because real estate agents typically earn half of the 6%
sales commission their concerns charge buyers, a plunge in
sales can be devastating. To survive in today's market,
agents have to reconcile themselves to a new and unassailable
truth: The buyer is king.
   The surviving agents wrestle with multiple listings books
that are thicker than the Manhattan telephone directory. And
the ones who wait for their phones to ring get nowhere.
   "There's a significant change in the work ethic," concedes
Mr. DeWolfe, the Lexington, Mass., broker.
   Deborah Loban of Stratford, Conn., became an agent in 1987
after spending 17 years raising a family. During her first
year, she worked 15 to 20 hours a week and sold 11 houses.
"It did seem very easy, it really did," she says. This year,
she is working two or three times the hours. But she has made
only four sales.
   As part of Ms. Loban's new world, she must deal with
buyers who think not merely that they are kings but emperors.
"The few good buyers we have out there feel that no matter
what the house is marketed at, they can come in with a
low-ball offer," says Ms. Loban. She says she recently
received a $100,000 offer for a property she listed at
$190,000, which she flatly rejected.
   Ms. Loban, like many other brokers, has grown accustomed
to shaving a point or so off her commission to satisfy
hard-bargaining buyers.
   Times are harder in Hillsdale, N.J., too, where broker
Peter Sobeck had to take a new hard line. One agent who
joined his office during the boom made seven sales in six
months, netting her about $20,000. "But it was all stuff that
came to her via my office," he says. "When that dried up, she
wasn't doing any business." Mr. Sobeck says he tried to teach
her to drum up her own business. "But she really fell flat on
her face. So we fired her," he says.
   Placing blind calls isn't entirely futile, insists Mr.
Sobeck, who guesses that one out of 40 or 50 calls turns up a
lead. The object isn't necessarily to reach a potential
buyer, but to hit on a gossipy source who can report on the
comings and goings of the neighborhood.
   Some agents engage in "farming," or targeting a
neighborhood and establishing themselves as its real estate
expert. This can involve such humbling tasks as going
door-to-door-introducing themselves and sometimes handing out
novelty gifts -- and then following up with mailings.
   Micki Rosenbloom mails a quarterly publication titled
"Great Possibilities" to homeowners in the area she farms in
Maplewood, N.J. It includes articles on preparing your home
for the winter and VCR maintenance. "Truthfully, it's just to
get my name out," she concedes. She follows the mailings with
phone calls.
   About a year ago, she also started posting her name on the
"For Sale" signs she stakes in the lawns of her customers.
That way, the sales commission won't go to just anyone who
picks up the phone at Burgdorff Realtors, her brokerage firm.
   Joan Dirken, another agent at Burgdorff's Maplewood
office, has begun posting sales prices on the lawns of homes
that she deems a bargain. The purpose: It answers the first
question that any interested buyer would have, and it
eliminates calls from people "whose eyes are bigger than
their pocketbooks."
   Such an approach is considered a touch uncouth at
Burgdorff's office in the posh community of Short Hills, N.J.
"Our feeling is that the neighborhood people wouldn't like
it," says agent Kathy Adams. "They wouldn't want that kind of
information disseminated. They would look at it as too
commercial."
   In Plymouth, Mass., the search for buyers has led Bay
Colony Realty World to the mecca of community shoppers,
mammoth Independence Mall. Last fall the brokerage opened an
indoor kiosk outside Filene's Basement, a popular off-price
clothing chain. Agents man the desk 12 hours a day, hoping
that buyers might be lured by the kiosk's "Realscope Board,"
a 16-by-24-foot wall papered with 8-by-10-inch glossies of
almost 90 properties.
   The frustration isn't over once an agent gets a potential
buyer into his or her car. "It's brutal. You're driving
people around to house after house," said one suburban Boston
broker who shut his brokerage firm for good this month and
who asked that his name not be used. "You're burning more gas
than ever before. Then they just say, `We're going to wait a
little.'"
   Brokers also mine local newspapers for leads in new
employment announcements, birth notices and even death
notices. The latter must be handled delicately, concedes one
broker, perhaps in the form of a subtle feeler to an
acquaintance of the widow or widower.
   Then there are the sellers who refuse to take off their
rose-colored glasses. Many won't admit how little their
properties are worth now.
   Today, brokers spend more time measuring sellers' motives,
then sternly lecturing them about the new realities. They
refuse to list homes at unrealistically high prices. "I've
never heard brokers say the things I hear them saying now,"
says the Boston-area broker. "Things like: `I won't waste my
time advertising at that price for that turkey.'"
   But some sellers, acutely aware of how the gloomy market
is affecting agents, are offering rewards to the brokers who
can hustle them up a buyer. A homeowner in South Orange,
N.J., is offering two first-class tickets to Europe to the
agent who can move his house at $500,000.
   The good times may be a long time gone, but the song goes
on to say that the darkest hour is just before the dawn, and
some brokers point out that while sales volume continues to
fall, it's not falling as fast as it was.
   "The bright light that we all look to is Houston," says
one broker. "People say, `Gee, Houston's coming back. Maybe
there's hope for us.' But others say, `I can't wait four or
five years,' and get out of the business."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MGM Grand Retains
   Bear Stearns to Sell
   Desert Inn in Nevada
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MGG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CULVER CITY, Calif. -- MGM Grand Inc., the hotel-casino
and luxury airline company controlled by investor Kirk
Kerkorian, said it retained Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. to sell the
Desert Inn hotel and casino in Las Vegas, Nev.
   The Desert Inn, a boutique property that caters to
foreigners, includes an 821-room hotel and an 18-hole
championship golf course. The Strip property also has a
34-acre parcel that has been earmarked for a 2,000-room hotel
and casino.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MGM Grand is planning another major Las Vegas project that
calls for a theme park, 5,000-room hotel and casino. Fred
Benninger, MGM Grand's chairman, said the company is so busy
with the theme park plan that it doesn't have time to develop
the Desert Inn.
   MGM Grand bought the Desert Inn and the Sands hotel-casino
in February 1988 for $167 million. It sold the Sands and 58.7
acres of nearby land to Interface Group for $110 million
later that year, and has invested about $35 million in
refurbishing the Desert Inn.
   Industry executives said MGM Grand had quietly been
shopping for several months before retaining Bear Stearns.
Michael E. Tennenbaum, a Bear Stearns vice chairman, said the
facility draws interest from Pacific Rim investors and other
foreigners because of its strong international business, but
noted that the extra acreage could allow a buyer to transform
the site into a more middle-market casino.
   Analysts speculated that MGM Grand would probably seek
more than $200 million for the property, but said it is
unlikely that it will be sold quickly, or at a premium price.
   To ease prospective buyers' worries about obtaining a
Nevada casino license, Mr. Tennenbaum said, MGM Grand has
agreed to continue running the casino while the buyer is
investigated by state regulators. That process can take
anywhere from several months to more than a year, a factor
that has complicated past efforts to sell other Las Vegas
casinos.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   From an editorial titled "What Price Iraq?" in the Aug. 17
Forward, an English-language Jewish weekly:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   As the Gulf crisis rolls into its third week an increasing
number of Jews are growing quietly concerned at the way the
Bush administration is handling the international politics of
the situation. . . . This feeling stems from the
assiduousness with which Messrs. Bush and Baker are avoiding
any overt reference to the long-standing American-Israeli
friendship. Israel's government has long warned of the threat
from Iraq, sharing intelligence and giving advance warning.
On the eve of the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, Defense Minister
Arens raised the alarm in Washington, albeit in private.
Since then Israel has gamely kept in the background, not
wanting to embarrass a friend and patron. This has seemed all
too pleasing to the Bush administration -- to a degree that
makes it seem a bit cringing. It may be heartening to see
some of the Arab countries step up to their responsibilities.
But what is the worth of this alliance to America if the
price of it is a snub to the one genuinely staunch friend
it's had in the region?
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FDIC Keeps S&amp;Ls
   Chartered by States
   In Rescue Program
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
effectively told state-chartered savings and loan
associations that they can't withdraw from the Federal Home
Loan Bank System for at least 18 months, insuring that the
thrifts will continue contributing to the cost of the S&amp;L
bailout.
   Some government officials feared that the FDIC would allow
the thrifts to pull out and that such a decision could lead
to an exodus from the home loan banks and hurt the system's
ability to help pay for the bailout.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The FDIC action came on a request from a small Wisconsin
thrift, Wauwatosa Savings &amp; Loan Association, which asked the
FDIC if it could maintain its federal deposit insurance if it
pulled out of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago.
   The FDIC, in a closed board meeting yesterday, decided to
tell Wauwatosa Savings that if the thrift left the system,
the FDIC could "make no assurances" that the thrift could
maintain its insurance, agency officials said.
   However, the FDIC's board voted to postpone a final
decision for 18 months to consider the issue in conjunction
with other regulators, including the Office of Thrift
Supervision. FDIC officials said the OTS intends to propose a
regulation that state-chartered thrifts must belong to the
Federal Home Loan Bank System.
   Last year's S&amp;L bailout law made it clear that federally
chartered thrifts must maintain their membership but left the
status of state-chartered thrifts unclear. The home loan
banks are required to contribute as much as $300 million a
year to the bailout, and some thrifts have complained that
those and other costs have made membership unattractive.
   Members must own stock in the home loan banks and receive
dividends on that stock. In addition, all banks and thrifts
must pay premiums for deposit insurance coverage.
   But Treasury Department officials warned the FDIC that if
the agency let the thrifts go, it could become difficult for
the home loan banks to meet their required contribution to
the bailout. Some important members of Congress, such as
House Banking Committee Chairman Henry Gonzalez (D., Texas),
also were concerned that a flight of thrifts from the system
would cripple the affordable-housing programs the home loan
banks must pay for under the bailout law.
   Officials of Wauwatosa Savings couldn't be reached for
comment last night.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credibility Gap:
   UAW and Big Three
   Face Mutual Mistrust
   As Auto Talks Heat Up
   ---
   Despite the Major Threats
   Of Recession and Imports,
   Suspicions Carry the Day
   ---
   Why GM Is the Strike Target
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   GM LABOR C F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   FLINT, Mich. -- In a gesture of trust toward 500 unionized
workers at a gritty factory that stamps out truck body panels
here, General Motors Corp. three years ago told them that
they didn't have to punch a time clock when they left work.
   GM managers allowed workers to leave once they finished
banging out the day's quota of parts. The move sparked a
startling jump in productivity: Employees, many on the job
for more than 20 years, suddenly found ways to do a full
day's work before lunch.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But management, dismayed at paying a full day's wage for a
half day's work, unilaterally increased the quotas to the
point that workers have to put in eight hours even at the
higher production levels they had achieved when they had the
incentive to finish early. The workers feel they have been
tricked into a speedup, and the United Auto Workers union is
threatening a local strike over the issue. A program
promising mutual benefit ended in mutual mistrust, an emotion
all too often present in auto-industry labor relations.
   The mistrust that sabotaged the Flint plant's modest
effort at cooperation illustrates the biggest obstacle UAW
leaders and Big Three executives must overcome as they head
into the final phase of their negotiations for a new national
contract. The UAW yesterday named GM as the target company
for negotiating a pattern-setting agreement to replace the
three-year pact expiring Sept. 14. The UAW said it chose GM
over Ford Motor Co. partly because Ford would have been able
to grant a job-security guarantee that GM would be
hard-pressed to match. More than anything else, the union
wants the contract to be uniform across the industry. Ford
hasn't closed any plants in the past three years, while GM
has closed four.
   Union leaders say the key to the negotiations is for the
companies to treat workers as partners, and guarantee their
jobs. Company officials want more freedom to move workers
from job to job, and a more cooperative, flexible
relationship with the union. Both must overcome suspicion of
the other to achieve their goals.
   "The problem can be summed up in one word: credibility,"
says Harley Shaiken, a labor expert at the University of
California at San Diego. "The union doesn't believe that GM
will provide job security, and GM doesn't believe the union
will provide the flexibility it needs."
   But the UAW and the Big Three -- GM, Ford and Chrysler
Corp. -- need each other now in a way they haven't since
1982. Then, the unifying threats facing the auto industry
were a severe recession and imports of Japanese compact cars.
Now, another recession is near, and Japanese auto makers are
forging into almost every segment of the U.S. car market.
   Japanese companies now account for almost 30% of all U.S.
car sales, up from 25% in 1987, when the previous contract
was negotiated. The Big Three's share of the U.S. car market
fell to 65% from 70% in that period. Japanese firms have
opened five assembly plants in the U.S. since 1987, and now
operate more car plants here than Ford. Productivity is
higher in those plants. GM requires 30.3 man-hours to build a
car, six more than required by Japanese plants in the U.S.,
according to industry consultant James Harbour.
   The UAW, for its part, also has been thwarted by the
Japanese companies, whose plants in the U.S. represent a
major potential source of growth for the union. Last year, it
suffered a humiliating defeat when workers at a Nissan Motor
Corp. plant in Smyrna, Tenn., rejected UAW representation by
a margin of more than 2-1. The Big Three now employs 440,000
UAW members, down from 510,000 in 1987; nonunion workers at
Japanese plants in the U.S. nearly doubled to 13,000 in the
period.
   Just a few years ago, Big Three executives and UAW leaders
alike were clamoring for the Japanese to build more plants in
the U.S., so all the companies would compete on a "level
playing field."
   To an outsider, all this would seem to call for a radical
re-invention of industry-labor relations. But don't bet on
it. Most industry officials expect the national talks to
produce nothing more than evolutionary change. The union will
get a more comfortable safety net for displaced workers, and
the companies will get a little more flexibility. The
Japanese will keep their huge advantages in costs and
efficiency.
   To be sure, the UAW and the Big Three have come a long way
from their constant confrontations of the 1970s. In 1987, in
fact, the UAW continued to negotiate with Ford after the
contract had expired, and a new pact was reached without a
strike. The unprecedented step was possible largely because
Ford really has delivered job security in recent years, in
exchange for more moderate wage demands by workers.
Nonetheless, far too often the Big Three and the UAW still
cross swords instead of joining hands.
   Examples abound. When Chrysler and the union opened
bargaining in July, UAW officials cursorily dismissed a
proposal that would have paid employees some of the money
they save by improving attendance or quality. The UAW, in
addition to its automatic preference for uniform contracts
throughout the industry, mistrusts Chrysler. The union
granted the company big givebacks when Chrysler was in
trouble in the early '80s, and the UAW feels the company
never returned the favor after the concessions helped it back
to health.
   At GM, the union recently drew a line in the sand at a
Flint plant that makes gasoline tanks. GM, despite a pledge
not to close plants, had announced plans to close a portion
of the factory that makes radiator brackets and lay off about
600 workers. The UAW earlier this month sanctioned a six-day
strike that had a ripple effect, forcing the auto maker to
temporarily close part or all of six assembly plants and 10
parts factories. Before that, the union had been satisfied to
seek arbitration over what it considered infractions of the
company's no-closings pledge.
   The union struck to press the job-security worries of
members like Harold Allen, 36 years old, who is currently
laid off from the Flint plant the union struck. In the 17
years since Mr. Allen first went to work for GM, he has spent
about as much time on layoff as he has on the job.
   Mr. Allen has been helped, however, by the big, expensive
safety net the union negotiated with the company during the
1980s. GM is paying him full wages and benefits to take
college classes. But the future is uncertain for him, his
wife and his four children. "I'd like to get out of this
program and back to work," he says.
   GM settled the Flint strike by delaying plans to close the
radiator-bracket operation and promising to bring enough
business back into the facility to keep the workers busy for
the next five years. By that time, presumably, many older
workers will have retired with full pension benefits, making
room for Mr. Allen and others to be recalled to work. GM had
never before offered such terms. But the pattern of strike
followed by compromise is how the industry has long operated.
   The pattern endures because each side has good reason to
be wary of the other. Three years ago, GM included a
plant-closing moratorium in its contract with the UAW. But by
calling closedowns "indefinite idlings" instead of
"closings," GM has closed four car plants and has laid plans
to close three truck plants by 1992. In all, GM has
eliminated one in 10 of its UAW jobs since 1987.
   This year, GM compounded the UAW's outrage by paying top
executives bonuses for 1989 averaging $44,800 a person, and
at the same time telling workers that slim profits would
limit their UAW-negotiated profit-sharing to just $50 apiece.
In the spring, GM nearly doubled the pensions of top
executives. News of the plan hit just as top UAW officials
were trying to convince restive troops that it would be too
costly to demand cost-of-living-adjustments to worker
pensions. Union leaders fumed, but the new executive pension
plan went through. Recently retired Chairman Roger B. Smith
will draw an annual pension of $1.1 million.
   The UAW's relations with Chrysler aren't much better. The
union is smarting over the No. 3 auto maker's decision to
close an aging plant in Detroit earlier this year, and its
plans to close another factory in St. Louis next month.
   Ford's labor relations are in better shape, largely
because Ford made big cuts in its work force during the early
1980s and, with the help of several well-executed products,
has been able to run its plants close to capacity for the
past few years. It has thus avoided permanent layoffs in
recent years. Ford has also kept its work force lean by using
overtime instead of increased hiring to meet heavy demand.
   While the union has legitimate grievances, the companies
have valid gripes of their own. Absenteeism at many Big Three
plants runs as high as 15% a day, and can force factories to
close for several days during Michigan's deer-hunting season.
Generous health-care benefits negotiated in the days when the
Big Three were a virtual oligopoly now add $600 or more to
the cost of each Big Three vehicle.
   The companies and the union have established elaborate
so-called jointness programs designed to improve
productivity, quality and relations between company and
union, but those have become a costly bureaucracy. At GM
alone, more than 17,000 people work in various "jointness"
activities. In all, the companies spent more than $200
million last year on the programs, which include paying
laid-off workers to find more efficient ways to assemble
autos. Despite all this, union-company relations are still
governed by a 500-page contract that has a list of amendments
longer than the document itself.
   What's most striking, perhaps, is that commitment to
cooperation varies widely from plant to plant, and its
chances of success are hurt by longstanding labor-management
acrimony. At GM's big luxury-car assembly plant in Lake
Orion, Mich., for example, more than 120 people work in joint
labor-management programs. But Lake Orion has one of the
worst labor relations records in the company.
   Worker opposition forced the plant management to scrap an
effort to get employees to operate in teams to improve
efficiency and quality. Earlier this year, several Lake Orion
workers touched off an unsanctioned strike in a dispute over
the safety of a machine that mates car bodies to their
engines. The walkout lasted just a few hours, but sparked a
bitter dispute between the union and GM after the auto maker
fired four workers involved in the incident. They were
reinstated by an arbitrator last week.
   Just across the street from the Lake Orion assembly plant,
however, GM has a small plant that makes car seats. Here,
with relatively little fanfare, managers and the 216 UAW
members have worked together to cut by more than 80% the
number of flaws in the seats they make for the Oldsmobiles
and Cadillacs assembled across the street. GM got help from
Harold Masters, a 47-year-old forklift driver, who suggested
and helped win acceptance for a plan to improve the plant's
system for ordering seat cushions.
   While Mr. Masters's suggestion may be an example of the
kind of union cooperation GM needs, his job is of the sort
that illustrates the kind of productivity problems the
company doesn't need. For hauling crates of cushions and
boxes of covers from the receiving docks to the line that
assembles the seats, Mr. Masters earned $59,000 last year,
albeit by working a lot of overtime and by skipping
vacations. He expects to earn just as much this year.
   Even Mr. Masters doesn't believe his job is worth that
much. "It's stupid. I think it's really ridiculous," he says
from the seat of his dingy yellow forklift. But as long as
the UAW can get that kind of money from GM, Mr. Masters says,
"I'll take it."
   The Big Three's rivals have only a few jobs like Mr.
Masters's. At those companies, the work would more likely be
performed by a worker at an independent subcontractor earning
perhaps $10 an hour less than a UAW member. That's because
the Japanese companies in the U.S., while paying virtually
identical wages for assembly workers, use independent parts
companies much more than the Big Three. Union resistance to
such "outsourcing" is the reason.
   For example, a worker at Johnson Controls Inc., the
biggest independent U.S. maker of car seats, earns half of
what Mr. Masters does for the same job. Not surprisingly,
Johnson Controls is snapping up most of the seat-making
business at the U.S. assembly plants of Nissan, Honda Motor
Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. And Johnson Controls' lower-cost
seats are helping those Japanese companies build lower-cost
cars than the Big Three.
   Thus, the Big Three and the UAW face hard choices. "They
ultimately have to build higher-quality products at lower
costs," says Douglas K. Laughlin, an analyst with Bear
Stearns &amp; Co. "If they don't, it's a slow, painful death."
   Union members say they'll fight any assault on their
standard of living. But many are like Ernie Emery, president
of the union local that represents the Lake Orion assembly
plant. His advice to his son speaks volumes about what he
really believes about the future of the U.S. auto industry.
When his son showed interest in mathematics as a high-school
student, Mr. Emery told him to become an accountant, not an
auto engineer. And the young man followed his father's
advice.
   "I'm very happy," says Mr. Emery, "that he found
employment outside the auto industry."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CD Yields Edged Up
   In the Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on certificates of deposit inched up
across the board, reflecting recent increases in interest
rates.
   The average yield on a small-denomination six-month CD,
for instance, rose to 7.40%, from 7.37%, in the week ended
yesterday, according to Banxquote Money Markets, an
information service. On a small-denomination one-year CD, the
average yield rose to 7.55% from 7.52%, Banxquote said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the outlook is uncertain, said Norberto Mehl,
Banxquote chairman. "It's hard to predict until the Persian
Gulf crisis is settled," he said. Interest rates had been
declining steadily for several months before Iraq's invasion
of Kuwait and the resulting jump in oil prices.
   All the increases in CD yields in the latest week were
just a fraction of a percentage point. The biggest increases
were on long-term large-denomination and broker-sold CDs. The
average yield on five-year CDs sold by major brokerage firms
rose to 8.62% from 8.53%, according to Banxquote. Five-year
"jumbo" CDs sold directly by major banks, generally in
denominations of $90,000 and more, posted an average yield of
8.27%, up from 8.19%.
   The only decline in yields was on small money market
deposit accounts. The average at the 18 major banks surveyed
by Banxquote fell to 6.44% from 6.46%. The average yield on
"jumbo" money market deposits remained at 6.89%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Clean Air Revisited
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Clean Air Act, once thought to be a sure thing, may
have a big problem: the bottom line. As Members of Congress
plow through its hundreds of pages, many are becoming worried
over its impact on the economy. When as part of the budget
negotiations, the idea for a 5% energy tax floated out of the
budget summit, Rep. John Dingell, co-chairman of the
conference committee, quickly told negotiators the Clean Air
Act already represented a hefty tax on energy.
   The Bush Administration also has begun to recognize the
costs that the Clean Air Act would impose on the economy.
Last month, Michael Boskin, chairman of President Bush's
Council of Economic Advisers, responded to congressional
questions about claims from the Environmental Protection
Agency that the act would have little adverse job impact.
"The President's support for this proposal was not premised
on the view that its costs would be negligible. He is fully
aware they may result in temporary unemployment," he wrote.
"Rather, the President believes that our nation is able and
should be willing to pay a reasonable price to clean its air.
But the President is not prepared to see American firms,
workers and consumers overcharged or to see economic growth
needlessly slowed."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It is now clear that is precisely what the Clean Air Act
will do. A single provision requiring the use of gasoline and
alcohol blends in 25% of the country will add 15 cents to 25
cents a gallon to the price of gasoline. A study by Tom
Austin, a former executive officer of the California Air
Resources Board, concludes that the reformulated fuel will be
15% less fuel-efficient and could actually increase
nitrogen-oxide emissions. "Motorists would end up paying more
for dirtier air," he says. A study by Resources for the
Future, a leading environmental group, also questions the use
of alternative fuels. It estimates that reducing emissions
through methanol use could cost $31,000 to $66,000 a ton.
   Other provisions of the Clean Air Act make just as little
economic sense. Its crash program of installing limestone
scrubbers on old power plants to reduce acid rain will have
the perverse effect of delaying the installation of clean
coal technology. The bill will divert at least $50 billion in
capital to install a 20-year-old technology and add to
pollution by leaving behind tons of limestone sludge a year.
   After studying what the congressional process did to the
President's proposal to create a system of tradable emissions
permits to reduce acid rain, analysts at Washington
University concluded that "the Senate has created a Rube
Goldberg scheme for distributing emissions allowances." Both
House and Senate versions have eviscerated the intended
savings from a tradable-permits system.
   The Clean Air Act's fast phase-out of chlorofluorocarbons
uses the most tentative of scientific research on ozone
depletion to justify a dramatic increase in air-conditioning
and refrigeration costs. The likely substitute for the most
popular banned refrigerant costs 30 times as much and will
itself be banned by the year 2015. The economy will have to
shoulder at least $10 billion to $15 billion a year in added
refrigeration costs by the year 2000.
   Members of Congress tell us privately that the Clean Air
Act was rushed to passage because no one wanted to publicly
oppose any bill with the words "clean air" in it. The Bush
Administration was then rolled in private negotiations with
environmental extremists, and then backed off from its
threats to veto an outrageous bill. These are hardly excuses
for enacting a public policy that drapes significant
financial weights on an economy trying to compete globally.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan's Contribution in Gulf Crisis Remains Vague
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN MDEST EUROP JAPNY
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AIRLINES (AIR)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Despite pressure from Washington that Japan make
a stronger commitment to U.S.-led efforts to dislodge Iraqi
forces from occupied Kuwait, Tokyo is on the verge of
announcing a package of measures that will leave vague the
full extent of its financial contribution.
   After weeks of deliberation, the government is expected to
unveil the package today. A government official said it would
include the dispatch of a medical team to the region and the
chartering of civilian aircraft to transport nonmilitary
supplies to the multinational force in the Persian Gulf.
There is also a "50-50 chance" the package will include
increased support for U.S. troops stationed in Japan, the
official said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But more weeks of deliberation will be needed before Japan
decides how much aid it will give to Turkey, Egypt and other
Middle Eastern countries whose economies have been hurt by
the crisis. The official said today's measures "will most
likely be announced as a first package, to be followed up
later."
   U.S. pressure on Japan has been intense. The Kyodo news
agency quoted Tokyo officials as saying that U.S. Ambassador
Michael Armacost had warned them that Japan's response will
determine whether it can rise to a position of international
leadership, such as permanent membership in the U.N. Security
Council. Unless Japan upgraded the pace and substance of its
Gulf contribution, Kyodo reported Mr. Armacost as saying,
"`dangerous doubts' could arise among Americans as to who
their true friends really are."
   News reports have indicated that the package announced
today might include as much as $35 million in emergency
grants to Middle Eastern countries, with a promise of greater
sums later. But a senior Finance Ministry official dismissed
the reports as speculative. He said Japan would like to see a
multilateral aid package for the region, with contributions
from the U.S. and other countries as well as Japan, funneled
through such international institutions as the World Bank and
the International Monetary Fund.
   "Japan should make a significant contribution, but there's
a limit to what one country can do," he said.
   But devising such a package could take time. The senior
Finance Ministry official said Japan has just begun talking
to the U.S. and European countries about it. Another Finance
Ministry source said the deliberations might not be concluded
until just before Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu visits five
Mideastern countries in early October.
   "The Foreign Ministry wants to come up with something
faster, but we'd like to study all the options," he said.
   Japanese officials all say they want Japan to make a
noteworthy contribution to the multinational effort. But they
are clearly having difficulty reaching a consensus on how to
do so. Almost every aspect of its deliberations have been
dogged by controversy, from budgetary worries to concerns
about violating Japan's war-renouncing constitution.
   For example, the government's decision to help transport
supplies to U.S. forces in Saudi Arabia had to overcome
strong reservations by cargo companies. The two Japan Air
Lines 747 freighters that the government is expected to
charter represent 20% of JAL's cargo fleet, and the airline
had deep concerns about the safety of its crews and the fate
of 23 of its employees who are currently "guests" in a
Baghdad hotel. The airline also successfully insisted that it
not be required to carry munitions. The Transport Ministry
reportedly asked three airlines, including JAL, and a
shipowner organization to provide cargo planes and ships to
transport nonmilitary items such as water, food and medical
supplies to the multinational forces in the Gulf.
   The difficulties the government has faced are in part the
result of bureaucratic infighting, but may also reflect a
deeper public attitude. Social commentator Kazuhisa Ogawa
said on Japanese television recently that Japan suffers from
"a lack of a sense of being a direct participant" in the Gulf
crisis.
   In the short run, Japan's inability to specify its
financial contribution probably won't hurt Mr. Kaifu's
government domestically. For weeks, Japanese opinion makers
have been saying that it isn't enough for Japan to write a
check; the important thing is for it to participate in the
international effort more directly. So the initial reaction
to the package here is likely to emphasize Japan's direct
contribution of logistical and medical support.
   But if U.S. congressmen and other Americans criticize the
package as inadequate, Mr. Kaifu could eventually feel
political backlash from public perception of worsening
U.S.-Japan relations. Already public-opinion polls in the
U.S. show that large majorities of Americans don't think
Japan is contributing enough in the crisis. Some Japanese
fear that Japan's contributions or lack of them could become
an issue in this fall's U.S. congressional campaign.
   But other Japanese are defiant. Tomomitsu Oba, president
of the Japan Center for International Finance and a former
top Finance Ministry official, says Japan can't spend huge
sums both at home and abroad.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   One Price Clothing Stores Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ONPR
</CO>
<LP>
   ONE PRICE CLOTHING STORES Inc. (Duncan, S.C.) -- Henry D.
Jacobs Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of this
apparel company, assumed the additional post of president. He
succeeds Brian P. Woolf, who left the company to pursue other
interests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Elephantine Builders
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   Public authorities in the West particularly have been on a
building binge the past few years trying to attract big
business and professional meetings. New convention centers
have been erected in Portland, San Jose, San Diego, Seattle,
Palm Springs, Santa Clara and Oakland. Major expansions are
under way in San Francisco, Anaheim, Las Vegas, Los Angeles,
Long Beach and Sacramento. And no wonder: Spending at such
events is estimated to have more than tripled during the
1980s. All of which causes us to wonder whether the local
government officials involved have squared their grand
ambitions with their repeated incantations to lower the
federal budget deficit. If somebody decided to try to do that
by curbing the deductions for doing "business" at those
expensive gatherings, some public-sector party pooh-bahs
might find themselves turning as white as a concrete
elephant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   AT&amp;T Is Talking
   With Marubeni
   About Cooperation
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   T J.MRB MC
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. is poised
once again to use Japanese help to bolster its product line.
   The telecommunications giant, which doesn't make portable
computers or hand-held cellular phone gear, is talking to
Japan's Marubeni Corp. about joint product development.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An AT&amp;T spokesman said the two companies are holding talks
"focused on innovative solutions," including development of a
laptop computer that can communicate via wireless
transmission such as cellular radio.
   The AT&amp;T spokesman said Marubeni, acting as a broker,
could also bring in other Japanese parties, including a major
manufacturer to provide electronic parts and production
support. In Tokyo, a Marubeni spokesman said Matsushita
Electric Industrial Co. may fill that role. But he said that
such matters as the exact form of the joint effort and the
production site have yet to be decided.
   Steve J. Lair, a vice president and analyst at Dataquest
Inc., noted that the laptop field is crowded with U.S. and
Asian manufacturers, including Taiwanese suppliers that are
readying laptop computers with built-in radio communications
devices and facsimile machines.
   "I don't see anything particularly unique about AT&amp;T's
participation in the laptop market other than its strength in
communications," he said.
   AT&amp;T's attraction to the market isn't surprising. Mr. Lair
estimated that the laptop market in the U.S. is currently a
$4.5 billion business, growing more than 10% annually.
Moreover, the market for notebook-sized computers of less
than six pounds will grow more than 100% a year between now
and 1994, he said.
   The discussions between AT&amp;T Computer Systems and
Marubeni, Japan's fourth-largest trading company, come on the
heels of numerous joint ventures between AT&amp;T and Japanese
companies such as NEC Corp. and Mitsubishi Electric Corp. in
micro-electronic components and Ricoh Co. in business
telephone systems.
   A joint R&amp;D effort would alleviate some cost pressures at
AT&amp;T Bell Laboratories, which handles development for AT&amp;T
Computer Systems and so far has managed to avoid the deep
cutbacks experienced by other AT&amp;T units.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sonoco Restructuring
   To Include Selling
   Its Stake in Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   SONO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HARTSVILLE, S.C. -- Sonoco Products Co. said it is taking
several steps, including selling its interest in a joint
venture for $60 million, to streamline its operations.
   The actions, according to the maker of packaging products,
will result in a one-time charge against third-quarter
earnings and a probable gain in the fourth quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sonoco said a planned restructuring of several operations
is expected to result in a charge against third-quarter
earnings of $50 million to $55 million, or $1.14 to $1.25 a
share after taxes. In the 1989 third quarter, Sonoco had net
income of $25.8 million, or 59 cents a share, on revenue of
$402.5 million.
   The company also said it agreed to sell its 40% interest
in Sonoco Graham Co., a manufacturer of plastic bottles and a
joint venture with closely held Graham Co., York, Pa., to the
other partners in the venture for $60 million. The sale is
contingent on the buyers obtaining financing and approval of
Graham's board. The sale is expected to result in an
after-tax gain in the fourth quarter of $22 million to $25
million, or 50 to 57 cents a share. In the 1989 fourth
quarter, Sonoco had net of $24.7 million, or 56 cents a
share, on revenue of $404.7 million.
   Sonoco said the cash from these moves will be used to pay
some debt and to purchase as many as 1.5 million shares, or
3.5%, of the company's common.
   R.C. King Jr., president and chief operating officer of
Sonoco, said that although some of the actions will have a
short-term negative impact on earnings, "they will provide us
with a more focused company to serve our growing customer
base."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Attempt to Settle Asbestos Cases
   At National Level Could Unravel
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MVL EPI WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (EDN)
</GV>
<LP>
   A national effort to resolve thousands of asbestos cases
appears to be unraveling, as questions are raised about the
jurisdiction of the federal judges overseeing the cases.
   A federal appeals court in Cincinnati this week harshly
reprimanded a U.S. district judge in Cleveland for attempting
to begin a national settlement of asbestos personal-injury
cases. Judge Thomas Lambros of Cleveland was one of two
federal judges who issued an order Aug. 10 setting forth
three avenues for resolving the asbestos cases.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The appeals court accused Judge Lambros of taking actions
that are beyond his jurisdiction and forbade him from holding
a hearing on a national class action. Under the Aug. 10
order, Judge Lambros was to head up efforts to reach a
voluntary settlement of many of the 90,000 asbestos cases now
clogging federal and state dockets.
   Although the appeals court's ruling doesn't apply to the
other federal judges seeking a national resolution of the
cases, it has prompted some maneuvering to avoid the same
jurisdictional problems.
   According to lawyers familiar with the asbestos
litigation, U.S. District Judge Robert Parker, chief judge of
the Eastern District of Texas and one of the judges involved
in the national settlement effort, has requested that U.S.
Chief Justice William Rehnquist designate at least one
federal judge to hear asbestos cases outside of his or her
jurisdiction. Judge Parker couldn't be reached for comment.
   Such an appointment, however, wouldn't resolve other
questions about whether the courts can force through a
sweeping nationwide resolution of the cases. Because of the
diversity of the claims and the disparate financial resources
of the former asbestos makers, it's unclear whether a
national class action against all defendants would be upheld
by appellate courts.
   As a result, a narrower approach to resolving the asbestos
litigation -- starting with a restucturing of the Manville
asbestos trust and later adding other defendants -- may stand
the best chance of surviving. That approach is being pursued
by U.S. Judge Jack B. Weinstein in Brooklyn. In the order
setting forth plans for a national resolution of the cases,
Judge Weinstein was assigned what appeared to be the least
ambitious approach to settling the cases: a class-action
against as many as six defendants with limited resources to
pay claims.
   Attorneys familiar with the litigation said they expect
Judge Weinstein will combine the funds of a refinanced
Manville trust with funds from Eagle-Picher Industries Inc.,
so far the only defendant in the class action. The judge has
ordered the trust to restructure its financing, as well as
change the way it pays claims, by Sept. 6.
   The trust's claims-processing system, once altered, could
also be used to pay claims for the class-action defendants.
The trust, which is independent of Manville Corp., was formed
to pay asbestos claims as part of the company's
bankruptcy-court reorganization.
   "If any judge can fashion a solution to this nightmare {of
asbestos litigation}, it's Judge Weinstein," said Kenneth
Feinberg, an attorney who has been working as a special
master appointed by the judge to settle 500 asbestos cases in
New York, "He's going at his own pace, carefully every step
of the way."
   Meanwhile, Judge Parker is continuing to pursue plans for
a broader class action against all asbestos defendants, and
he has set a hearing for Sept. 14 in Beaumont, Texas. That
hearing will attempt to address many of the concerns about a
national resolution of the cases that Judge Lambros
previously had said he would hear in his court.
   Some attorneys said they expect Judge Parker's efforts to
be rebuffed by a federal appeals court. "The outcome will be
determined by the judge's ability to fashion it in a way to
get around the objections of the appellate judges," said
Louis Robles, an asbestos plaintiffs' attorney in Miami.
   Judges Parker, Weinstein and Lambros were not available
for comment.
   ---
   ARTHUR YOUNG &amp; CO. HIT  with $18.9 million verdict arising
from a scam.
   The award by a Honolulu federal court jury arose from the
accounting firm's role in auditing the books of FP Industries
Inc., a syndicator of limited partnership interests in
decorative tropical plants. FPI raised an estimated $50
million from 4,000 investors nationwide, beginning in 1982.
It collapsed in 1987, prompting widespread allegations of
fraud that eventually resulted in jail sentences for some of
the promoters. Arthur Young is a predecessor firm of Ernst &amp;
Young.
   Investors had claimed in a lawsuit that Arthur Young,
which did audits for FPI in 1985 and 1986, had "knowingly
aided and abetted" the scam by failing to unearth evidence
that FPI and affiliated entities engaged in a so-called Ponzi
scheme by propping up older partnerships with money that it
took in from subsequent investors.
   Richard Heimann, a San Francisco attorney for the
investors, said the jury found Arthur Young and Karl
Haushalter, one of its partners, liable on securities fraud
and other grounds. The award includes $10 million in punitive
damages, he said.
   In New York, Ernst &amp; Young said the firm was "as much a
victim of the events as were the plaintiffs" and said it
planned to appeal. "More than one witness testified that he
or she intentionally concealed critical information from the
firm which prevented Arthur Young from doing its job," the
firm stated.
   Mr. Haushalter referred calls to his lawyers, who couldn't
immediately be reached.
   ---
   TEMPLE UNIVERSITY LAUNCHES innovative legal ethics
program.
   Funded by a $300,000 grant from the U.S. Department of
Education, the three-year pilot project integrates the study
of ethics, evidence and trial practice into a single yearlong
course taught in a courtroom environment.
   Students who take the program will participate in four
mock trials. One is an attorney malpractice hearing. Another
is a negligence case that will raise ethical problems -- how
to deal with a client or witness who lies, for example. Many
law schools offer legal ethics courses, but they are usually
taught in a more traditional classroom setting.
   Temple said that it is trying to meet criticisms that law
schools overemphasize legal theory and pay too little
attention to ethics and the real world. "This lets students
taste firsthand what it's like when your client says,
`Incidentially, I lied to you,'" said Edward D. Ohlbaum,
director of clinical education at Temple's law school. "These
kinds of issues don't exist in a vacuum."
   ---
   C-SPAN TO TELEVISE marine's death penalty appeal.
   The telecast of the hearing in the U.S. Court of Military
Appeals today is believed to be the first time that a federal
appellate argument has been televised live, officials at the
Cable-Satellite Public Affairs Network and the federal
military court said.
   The military appeals court is the only federal court that
allows its proceedings to be televised.
   The case before the court, U.S. vs. Curtis, is likely to
be precedent-setting. The constitutional question at issue
involves who can authorize the death penalty for military
personnel -- the president or Congress. If convicted murderer
Lance Corporal Ronnie Curtis wins his appeal, an executive
order that sets capital-punishment procedures for the
military would be voided.
   The U.S. Judicial Conference will vote next month on
whether cameras should be allowed in some U.S. district and
federal appeals courts on an experimental basis.
   ---
   A WELL-KNOWN PHILADELPHIA law firm has split up.
   Edward Mannino left Elliott, Mannino &amp; Flaherty to start
his own firm, taking seven of the firm's 120 lawyers with
him. His former partners John M. Elliott, Robert J. Bray and
Dennis J. Riley have formed a new firm, Elliot Bray &amp; Riley.
   Mr. Mannino, a well-known litigator and an expert in
banking and finance law, formed Edward Mannino &amp; Associates.
Mr. Mannino had joined the law firm as a name partner in 1986
and helped make it one of the Philadelphia region's
best-known law firms.
   Last May, name partner and former chairman Philip Baskin
left the law firm's Pittsburgh office with half its 32
lawyers to start a more local practice. Mr. Mannino said at
the time that the firm, with offices in Washington,
Pittsburgh, and Harrisburg, wanted to develop a more regional
practice.
   Mr. Mannino, in his most recent move, said multicity law
firms cannot compete with national firms. He plans to develop
a smaller firm based in Philadelphia with a New Jersey
office. Elliott Bray &amp; Riley is to have offices in
Philadelphia, Washington and Harrisburg.
   James J. Flaherty, the last name partner at Elliott
Mannino, is opening his own firm in Pittsburgh.
   ---
   Wayne E. Green and Milo Geyelin contributed to this
column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FIA AFRIC FREST LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
TRUCKING (TRK)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   DEATH IN THE MEDITERRANEAN
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Scientists and environmentalists in Spain warned that
dolphins in the Mediterranean were threatened by an epidemic
similar to one that killed thousands of North Sea seals two
years ago.
   More than 50 dead dolphins have washed up on Spain's
northeast coast in the past month, and biologists at the
universities of Barcelona and Valencia said as many as 6,000
may already have died of a mysterious viral disease after
ingesting toxic substances.
   Autopsies found high doses of polychlorinated biphenyls,
or PCBs, in the dolphins' bodies. PCBs are highly toxic
substances believed to depress the immunological system.
   The environmental group Greenpeace said yesterday that
PCBs and other lethal substances were illegally dumped into
the sea by petrochemical plants. It urged the Spanish
authorities to ensure an immediate end to the dumping.
                                                                                                       

   LAYOFFS AT FIAT
                                                                                                       

   Fiat S.p.A., Italy's largest industrial group, will
temporarily lay off 35,000 of its 116,000 factory workers to
address sharper than expected declines in European auto sales
during the second quarter, a Fiat spokesman said. "The second
quarter has been far below expectations," the spokesman said.
He said the layoff plan, which involves work suspensions
ranging from one to three weeks over the next three months,
would help reduce excess production capacity.
                                                                                                       

   AFRICAN APPEAL
                                                                                                       

   Six African countries appealed for more money to help the
army of refugees created by civil wars in the Horn of Africa.
Foreign ministers from Kenya, Uganda, Sudan, Somalia,
Djibouti and Ethiopia made the appeal at the end of a two-day
meeting in Nairobi called to find ways of ending the
fighting. Of the six states, only Kenya and Djibouti are free
from wars. The ministers' appeal did not say how much money
was needed.
                                                                                                       

   TWO KOREAS MEET
                                                                                                       

   Liaison officials from North and South Korea met yesterday
at the border hamlet of Panmunjom to discuss procedures for
the proposed talks between the two countries' prime ministers
from Sept. 4 to 7 in Seoul. A spokesman for Seoul's
Unification Ministry said the chief North Korean official
accepted a draft itinerary from his southern counterpart and
agreed to reply tomorrow. The two Koreas agreed on July 26 to
hold the meetings between the prime ministers.
                                                                                                       

   WARNING STRIKES IN EAST GERMANY
                                                                                                       

   About 45,000 public workers in East Germany staged warning
strikes yesterday. Nurses, secretaries, bus drivers and other
municipal employees stopped working for up to two hours in at
least 10 cities. The workers want compensation for higher
prices that have resulted from the two Germanys' economic
merger. They also are demanding that East German income taxes
not be immediately raised to West German levels.
                                                                                                       

   AUSTRIA ENDS AN IMPASSE
                                                                                                       

   Austria agreed to gradually restore truck traffic between
West Germany and Italy that came to a halt last week. The
European Community Commission said Austria would fix a
damaged bridge at Kufstein, part of the north-south highway
through the Alps, and make two alternative roads available to
trucks. In turn, Italy and West Germany will immediately
allow Austrian trucks to cross their borders. The damaged
Kufstein bridge was closed in July. Austria opened an
alternative road, ignoring appeals to open more to
north-south truck traffic. On Friday, Italy and West Germany
retaliated by barring Austrian trucks from entering their
territories.
                                                                                                       

   INDONESIA'S PHONE PROBLEMS
                                                                                                       

   Sukarno Abdulrachman, Indonesia's director-general of
posts and telecommunications, told a group of businessmen and
diplomats that the nation's underinvestment in
telecommunications in previous years is now "felt as a
considerable handicap" for the economy, prospective investors
and the public.
   Mr. Abdulrachman's comments came at a time when complaints
about telephones in Jakarta are increasing. Businessmen say
international connections are generally excellent but that
there are mounting problems completing local calls and
obtaining needed new lines.
   The World Bank recommends that developing countries spend
between 1% and 3% of GDP on telecommunications, Mr.
Abdulrachman said, but Indonesia "for many, many years" has
spent less than 0.2%.
   Mr. Abdulrachman said the country currently has about 1.14
million phone lines, while a study by the Japan International
Cooperation Agency concluded that it should have seven
million lines.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Thousands cheered as a 60-foot statue of Lenin crashed to
the ground yesterday in Tbilisi, the capital of Soviet
Georgia, the news agency Iveria said. "Hundreds of people
lurched upon the statue with hammers and chisels and
immediately began chipping off souvenirs," an Iveria
correspondent reported. . . . West Germany is becoming a
tourist haven for East Bloc residents. Between 1986 and 1989,
the number of visitors from Eastern Europe spending nights in
West German hotels and other registered accommodations
increased by nearly 56%, according to a study by the
Economist Intelligence Unit. The number of nights spent by
Soviet visitors more than tripled to 265,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Barton Industries Inc.:
   Investor Raises His Stake
   In Oklahoma Firm to 8.7%
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   BART
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Investor Jack J. Camarda said he raised his stake in
Barton Industries Inc. to 8.7% of the common outstanding.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Mr. Camarda said he holds about 1.2 million Barton shares,
including 200,000 shares bought on Aug. 17.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Shawnee, Okla., a spokesman for Barton Industries said
Mr. Camarda had made contact with the company, but only as an
investor. "He feels like the company is a good investment for
him," said the spokesman.
   Barton is a manufacturer of valves, chokes and other parts
for the energy industry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Yen Gains Further on OPEC Plan to Lift
   Output, Expectation of Rate Rise in Japan
   ----
   By Thomas L. Waite
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The prospect of increased world oil production
and anticipation of a Japanese interest-rate rise boosted the
yen yesterday, adding to the gains it made Monday.
   Much of the yen's rise in early global trading came at the
expense of the dollar, pushing the U.S. currency below 143
yen for the first time in seven months. But later, as the
focus shifted to cross-trading of the yen and European
currencies, the dollar stabilized against the yen and was
pushed above Monday's levels against the mark and other
European currencies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Late in the New York trading day, the dollar was quoted at
143.73 yen, down from 144.25 yen late Monday. Near the end of
Japanese trading Tuesday, the dollar hit bottom at 142.80
yen, its lowest since Jan. 29, when it traded briefly at
142.50 yen. The dollar's New York close was its worst since
that same day in January, when it finished at 142.98 yen.
   The dollar was also changing hands late in the New York
session at 1.5563 marks, above 1.5510 marks late Monday. The
mark ended trading at 92.354 yen, down from 93.005 yen.
   At midmorning in Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was trading
at about 143.25 yen, about unchanged from 143.20 yen at the
close there Tuesday. Meanwhile, the dollar was trading at
about 1.5567 marks, up from Tuesday's Tokyo close of 1.5488
marks.
   Another active cross, or non-dollar, market yesterday was
between Swiss francs and yen. The franc was quoted at 111.704
yen, down from 113.182 yen.
   Of the 11 Organization of Petroleum Exporting Nations
member nations meeting in Vienna, 10 indicated they would
support a suspension of production quotas for as long as the
military standoff in the Persian Gulf lasts. The increased
supply will help to fill the gap created by the embargo on
Iraq and occupied Kuwait. Iran opposed the decision, though
its oil minister later said Iran might reconsider if war
broke out. Iraq and Libya, the two other OPEC members, were
absent from the meeting.
   The yen has been sold since the Aug. 2 Iraqi invasion of
Kuwait, on the ground that Japan is more dependent on
imported oil than other nations.
   But interest in selling dollars to take profits is
becoming keen among Japanese investors, Tokyo market
participants said. After a difficult first half, Japanese
institutions are looking for ways to dress up their balance
sheets before their fiscal first half ends Sept. 30.
   A market that had been expecting a Japanese interest-rate
increase since June was put on guard yesterday by a Japanese
news service report that the Bank of Japan will raise its
discount rate by three-quarters of a percentage point today.
The benchmark rate stands at 5.25% and was last raised from
4.25% March 20.
   Despite the OPEC news, some oil prices rebounded from
Monday's big losses, supporting the dollar somewhat against
the yen in late New York trading. The benchmark crude-oil
futures contract closed on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at $27.88 a barrel, up 97 cents. But some later delivery
contracts declined, with November futures closing at $27.40 a
barrel, down 66 cents.
   The market continued to see signs of peace in the Mideast
but didn't trade on them. Helping the yen somewhat in Asian
trading were U.S. television reports that Iraqi troops had
been moved 10 miles back from the Kuwaiti-Saudi Arabian
border, where they had been massed.
   Most participants were awaiting the meeting scheduled for
tomorrow between United Nations Secretary-General Javier
Perez de Cuellar and Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz. The
U.N. official said yesterday he would insist that Iraq
respect Security Council resolutions demanding that it
withdraw from Kuwait and release foreigners it is holding.
   President Saddam Hussein announced late Tuesday that all
women and children hostages would be free to leave Iraq
today. Meanwhile, Iraqi newspapers published a presidential
decree annexing Kuwait as Iraq's 19th province.
   Meanwhile, the pound fell to $1.9428 and 279.24 yen late
in New York from $1.9438 and 280.39 yen Monday.
   The dollar was helped against the mark by reports that
East German unemployment rose to 350,000 this month from
272,017 the month before. The report focused attention on the
costs of German unification, scheduled for Oct. 3.
   The dollar ended mixed in calm European trading, with many
participants out of the market for their summer holidays or
sidelined until the outcome of tomorrow's U.N.-Iraqi talks.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $385 an ounce, down $3.30. Estimated
volume was a very heavy seven million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Wednesday, gold was quoted at $388 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Computers:
   Next Inc. Plans
   To Introduce
   New Machines
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LOTS
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Steven P. Jobs's Next Inc. plans to introduce a slew of
new products Sept. 18, in what may be its last bid to become
a major player in the computer market.
   The rollout -- the second by Next -- will include a more
powerful workstation. Also, Lotus Development Corp. will
provide a version of its popular 1-2-3 spreadsheet for the
new machine.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Next was founded five years ago by Mr. Jobs, who
co-founded Apple Computer Inc. only to be forced out of the
company by the current chief executive officer, John Sculley.
In October 1988, Mr. Jobs introduced Next's first computer to
much fanfare. But the machine, dubbed the "black cube," has
sold poorly, dogged by criticisms that it runs too slowly,
lacks a color monitor and software applications and costs too
much. Mr. Jobs needs some hot products, fast.
   "Steve's going to have to perform a miracle," said Richard
E. Kaplan, vice provost for research and academic computing
at the University of Southern California.
   However, computer enthusiasts have applauded the software
chosen by Mr. Jobs to control the Next machine's basic
functions. The software is a variant of Unix -- a software
operating system widely used with technical computers -- and
it works with a novel set of screen icons and commands that
some observers say make it the software of choice for Unix
users. The software, however, is incompatible with that used
on Apple's Macintosh computers or International Business
Machines Corp. personal computers or their clones.
   While Mr. Jobs is enamored of his version of Unix, he aims
to fix most of his machine's shortcomings with his second
Next model. He won't describe the product, but industry
observers say it will be powered by Motorola Inc.'s 68040
microprocessor, a top-of-the-line chip that is expected to be
available later this year.
   The new model also will be designed to work with a color
monitor, and it will make even greater use of hard-disk
drives, a standard storage device eschewed by Mr. Jobs in his
original Next box but added later.
   Many observers say the new model, while an improvement
over the current one, won't be enough to propel Mr. Jobs's
company out of the also-ran category of computer
manufacturers.
   "There still isn't a compelling reason to buy it," said
Esther Dyson, editor of Release 1.0, a newsletter on
computers.
   That's partly because many customers for fancy workstation
computers -- the category Mr. Jobs sought to storm -- have
been mesmerized by hardware advances delivered by such
computer makers as Sun Microsystems Inc. Next hasn't been
able to match these advances.
   A lack of marketing focus and weak sales execution also
have hampered Next's progress. While the company has inked
some notable sales to corporations -- the William Morris
Agency, for instance, decided to outfit its offices with Next
machines -- Next mainly has persuaded universities to buy its
machines, offering deep discounts as an inducement.
   Besides losing out on some technical measures to Sun and
others, Next's prices also are higher, sometimes twice as
high, as competitors'. Currently, Sun and Hewlett-Packard Co.
each offer new models that cost universities less than
$3,250, half of Next's university price.
   Mr. Kaplan of USC expects Next to drop its prices on Sept.
18 or soon afterward, but even with such actions "these other
(workstation) guys are leapfrogging Next."
   Mr. Jobs has countered that Next's novel software
ultimately will hook customers, but Ms. Dyson thinks the
advances contained in Next's computers aren't radical enough
to "topple" the desk-top computing standards popularized by
IBM, Apple and Microsoft Corp., which sells MSDOS, the
personal-computer operating system, and Windows, an
extension.
   Besides, while Mr. Jobs has made much of how Next's
software makes it easier to create applications, some
software developers say that other versions of Unix actually
are easier to work with.
   "It's not clear that Next brings that many advantages,"
said Patrick Perez, chief executive of Neuron Data, a closely
held Palo Alto, Calif., concern that sells
artificial-intelligence programs for many computers,
including Next's.
   Mr. Jobs insists new applications from Lotus and others
will provide proof that Next's operating software is the soil
from which "truly revolutionary" applications will sprout.
Indeed, people who have seen Lotus's 1-2-3 for the Next say
it makes an eye-opening use of graphics and eases the
exchange of information with other applications.
   Whether even breakthrough software can rescue Mr. Jobs
from the margins of the computer industry remains a question.
Some observers say regardless of the software Next must
execute its plans flawlessly from here on out.
   "They've got to get it all right this time," said Jon
Seybold, editor of the Seybold Report on Desktop Publishing.
"There isn't another window for them."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Stock Prices
   End Mixed;
   Bonds Fall
   ---
   Dow Advances 3.22
   In Very Light Trade;
   Yen Continues Rally
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices turned mixed as investors groped
for reasons to extend the rally of Friday and Monday.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 3.22 points in very
light trading to 2614.85. But the transportation and
utilities averages, along with Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock
index, finished lower.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bond prices fell, also in light activity, with a rebound
in oil prices disappointing investors. The dollar was mixed,
as the yen continued to attract buyers.
   "After two big up days," said Paul Hennessey, head of
equities trading at Boston Co., "the market responded pretty
well. The low volume indicates a lot of people are either
away or cautious, awaiting more certainty on the Mideast
situation or economic numbers." August's employment report,
due at the end of next week, offers an early sign of U.S.
economic strength after the Mideast upheaval began.
   "There's reason for some encouragement" in yesterday's
stock activity, said Ken Knutel, equities strategist at
Kemper Financial Services, Chicago, "though not much because
there was no volume." However, he was encouraged that the
market remained placid despite the Bush administration's
saying there isn't any basis for negotiation with Iraq.
   One wrinkle is that for the first time in nearly a month
some strategists are willing to discuss the direction of the
market in terms other than what happens next in the Mideast.
Before Iraq invaded Kuwait, for example, Steven Einhorn,
portfolio strategist at Goldman Sachs, was advising clients
to go easy on stock investments, and yesterday he urged
investors to resist the temptation to fish for bargains.
   "If the relief rally should continue," Mr. Einhorn said,
"it would be a further opportunity to move away from the
market. Now is a time to raise cash into any rallies rather
than invest into them." Even without Iraq, he said, the
market lacks appeal for several reasons. He expects 1991
earnings will be flat, with a slight upturn in profits coming
no sooner than the 1991 third quarter.
   Long-term U.S. Treasury bond prices fell a half point, or
$5 for each $1,000 of face amount. Yoneo Sakai, joint general
manager of treasury operations at Fuji Bank, cited the halt
in the decline of oil prices, which fell sharply Monday. The
October crude oil futures contract ended at $27.88 a barrel,
up 97 cents from Monday when it fell $4.
   Currency trading also was light. David Gilmore, senior
foreign-exchange analyst at McCarthy, Crisanti &amp; Maffei, said
the big move was the yen rallying against European currencies
and the dollar.
   Besides softer oil prices, he said, the yen is deriving
strength from the expectation of an increase in a key
Japanese interest rate because of concerns about inflation, a
tight labor market and a promised rise in government
spending.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices were mixed on volume of 127.7 million shares
on the New York Stock Exchange, where advancing issues
outnumbered decliners, 837 to 664.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices fell. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond rose to 9.04%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency rose to 1.5563 marks from 1.5510 Monday, and fell to
143.73 yen from 144.25 yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OSHA to Inspect
   Big Petrochemical
   Plants This Week
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   ARC P
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Labor Department is expected to begin
inspecting large petrochemical plants this week, as part of
an effort to prevent catastrophic chemical-plant explosions.
   The department's Occupational Safety and Health
Administration said the new program will affect petrochemical
companies with more than 2,500 workers. The inspections will
cover oil refining and the manufacture of plastics and
synthetic resins, synthetic rubber, cellulosic and other
man-made fibers, and certain industrial organic chemicals,
OSHA said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The safety inspection program was spurred by recent
chemical-industry explosions, including those at a Phillips
Petroleum Co. plastics complex near Houston last October and
one at an Arco Chemical Co. plant in Channelview, Texas, last
month. Arco Chemical is a unit of Atlantic Richfield Co.
   Those explosions killed 40 workers and injured many
others.
   OSHA said its safety investigators have concluded, among
other things, that their regular inspection program isn't
geared to stopping the infrequent but disastrous explosions
that can occur at chemical facilities. Many of the plants
singled out for the special inspections generally wouldn't be
visited, said Susan Fleming, an OSHA spokeswoman, because the
industry's overall injury rate is relatively low. "There are
other, more dangerous places," she said.
   But when the department sent a report to President Bush in
April on the Phillips explosions last fall, it said that OSHA
would "revise its current system for setting agency
priorities," to include assessing the risk of "catastrophic
events" at chemical plants. Ms. Fleming said that meant "more
intensive" inspections in order to examine the plants'
processing methods for highly hazardous chemicals.
   Each inspection will cover the entire plant and include an
"in-depth" look at one process unit, Gerard Scannell, head of
OSHA, said.
   OSHA has been criticized for doing low-level chemical
inspections. Two months before the Phillips' explosions, an
accident at the same plant killed one worker and seriously
injured two others. After the accident, OSHA didn't do a
complete inspection; the last full inspection prior to the
October 1989 explosions was in 1974.
   After the August 1989 accident, OSHA fined Phillips only
$720. In April of this year, after making a full inspection
in October, OSHA proposed fines of $5.7 million against
Phillips, alleging willful safety violations in connection
with the Houston explosions. The company is contesting the
fines.
   The department has begun an inspection of the Arco plant,
but no fines have yet been proposed.
   Last month, on the heels of the Arco explosion, OSHA
formally proposed rules to require chemical-plant managers
and others to adopt rigorous safety programs. This includes
using a more thorough method for identifying, judging and
controlling chemical processes. It also includes such steps
as evaluating plant valves for safety hazards, keeping
equipment in good shape, and properly training company and
contract workers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES MDEST EUROP LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INSURANCE (INS)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   THE CALL OF RESERVES to the Middle East poses puzzling
problems for the IRS.
   Officials are mobilizing to answer thorny issues raised by
the call-up, and may decide to distribute formal guidance.
Many of the questions involve benefit plans, which the IRS
oversees. For example, if a firm stops paying an employee's
salary while he's on reserve duty, can it stop contributing
to his defined benefit retirement plan? And can firms that
wish to continue contributing count the reservist's military
salary in figuring contribution limits?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also, does being sent to Saudi Arabia constitute a
hardship -- especially if the employee's private sector
salary is suspended -- in order to qualify for a distribution
from a 401K retirement plan? Most of these benefits
provisions weren't around the last time reserves were called
up, IRS officials note.
   A 1984 law exempts from federal income tax families of
government employees wounded or killed in a "terroristic or
military action" from the year before they were injured until
death.
                                                                                                       

   BACK HOME, OIL PRICE rises make tax debate more slippery
than ever.
   With the cost of oil soaring, some Southwestern lawmakers,
like Sen. Boren of Oklahoma, want to push oil-drilling tax
incentives. Finance Committee chairman Bentsen of Texas, a
longtime supporter of incentives, could be an important ally.
So will President Bush, a Texan and former oil man, who had
already included a drilling-incentives package in his fiscal
1991 budget.
   Up in the Northwest, however, Sen. Packwood of Oregon
wants to punish Big Oil. He's planning to propose reinstating
a "windfall-profits tax" on oil companies, taxing firms up to
70% on "excessive profits" from sales of domestic and foreign
oil. With the worry over oil prices, an energy tax on
consumers, looked at closely by budget negotiators before the
crisis, now seems unlikely. Some think the securities
transfer tax proposal could be another casualty, if the stock
market continues its recent decline.
                                                                                                       

   AS IF REAL ESTATE weren't a plagued industry already . . .
   Developers are irate at IRS plans to revoke a procedure
allowing them to include the projected costs of finishing
roads and other improvements in determining their profit on
subdivision sales. Developers are often contractually
obligated to make such improvements, and the change means
their taxable profit will be higher. "It would result in
taxpayers paying tax on more than their economic gain,"
insists Ken Kies, who represents the American Resort and
Residential Development Association.
   Battered by high interest rates, softening markets and a
credit squeeze, industry executives say the tax change
couldn't have come at a worse time. Sens. Pryor and Symms
sympathize and plan to introduce legislation restoring the
revenue procedure, which has been in effect for 15 years.
   Meanwhile, Arthur Andersen's Ivan Faggen says developers
are in limbo because IRS hasn't issued guidance on how they
should now allocate the costs.
                                                                                                       

   IMPROVED PROCESSING of individual tax returns cut IRS
interest payments on refunds almost in half this year. The
interest tab on refunds for returns not processed in 45 days
came to $4.7 million in 1990. In 1989 it was $8.2 million.
                                                                                                       

   AN ALCOHOLIC who didn't file tax returns for 27 years
isn't liable for fraud penalties, the Tax Court rules. Judge
Raum says he found no convincing evidence that Thomas
Chandler's failure to file from 1957 through 1983 was due to
fraud rather than health problems.
                                                                                                       

   BOND INVESTORS are relieved by IRS decision to exempt
Swiss and German bonds from a rule requiring that debt be
registered in the name of the owner. Registration allows
authorities to know who's getting the interest income. But
the Swiss and German markets don't issue registered debt.
Those capital markets would have been closed to American
investors had the agency not granted the exemption.
                                                                                                       

   AN INSURANCE INDUSTRY proposal takes on a life of its own.
   Seeking repeal of a law that taxes mutual insurance
companies based on the profits of their stock-based rivals,
the mutuals suggested requiring all insurance firms to
amortize agent commissions and other acquisition costs. That
would provide a fairer taxable basis, they say. But members
of Congress see new revenue potential in the so-called
deferred acquisition costs (DACs) idea, and may put it in a
1991 budget package without the repeal measure.
   That miffs the mutuals. "We'd very much like to see it
connected to repeal," says John Jonas, a lobbyist for the
mutuals. Rep. Moody, who introduced the bill, isn't happy
either, but an aide says, "I'd be surprised not to see DACs
by themselves in a tax bill." Moody's proposal calls for
amortizing 50% of the cost of commissions over seven years,
and lawmakers see potential for more revenue if that formula
were changed.
   Stock insurance firms hate the proposal in any form, says
William Harman, a lobbyist for those firms.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: A New Jersey bumper sticker reads "Florio and
Taxes: Perfect Together." . . . A weekend outing put on by
Wilmer, Cutler &amp; Pickering is taxable to the lawyers
attending, so the firm will pay associates so they can pay
taxes on it. But since the firm's payment is income too, it
will toss in enough extra money to cover taxes on that amount
as well.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Soybean Trader's Surprise Guilty Plea
   Strengthens Government's Futures Case
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- A surprise guilty plea to racketeering and tax
fraud from one of 13 indicted soybean futures traders greatly
strengthens the government's case against the remaining dozen
traders who go on trial in less than two weeks.
   The trader, James D. Nowak, was a key defendant in the
soybean pit case: He was charged last year with two counts of
racketeering, more than 200 counts of fraud, and Commodity
Exchange Act violations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plea agreement and other pretrial documents filed by
the prosecutors allege that Mr. Nowak, 48 years old, made
fraudulent trades with at least half of the soybean traders
who go on trial Sept. 10 here in U.S. District Court. The
government alleged that between December 1986 and January
1989 Mr. Nowak stole more than $150,000 from customers while
trading in the soybean pit at the Chicago Board of Trade.
   Mr. Nowak couldn't be reached for comment and his
attorney, Michael Sher, declined comment on the plea
agreement.
   Defense attorneys said it was unclear whether any of the
remaining soybean traders would plead guilty as a result of
Mr. Nowak's decision. He has agreed to testify against the
other soybean futures traders in return for the government's
recommendation that his sentence be reduced. His testimony is
expected to corroborate that of undercover federal agent
Richard Ostrom, who posed as a corrupt soybean futures trader
from late 1986 until January of 1989. Several months ago a
half-dozen other soybean traders pleaded guilty and agreed to
cooperate with the government.
   An individual in the U.S. Attorney's office said the
government wasn't aware Mr. Nowak wanted to plead guilty
until contacted by his attorney Monday morning. The plea
agreement was quietly entered before U.S. District Judge
George Marovich Monday afternoon to avoid upstaging the
swearing in of Fred Foreman as the new U.S. Attorney for the
Northern District of Illinois, the individual said.
   The soybean futures traders are among the 48 individuals
indicted last year for stealing from customers stemming from
the federal probe of futures trading practices at the Chicago
exchanges.
   On Sept. 5, 15 Japanese yen futures traders from the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange also go on trial in federal court
here for alleged racketeering, fraud and Commodity Exchange
Act violations. Several yen traders have pleaded guilty and
also are cooperating with the government.
   Mr. Nowak's plea agreement indicates that the U.S.
Attorney's office remains unwilling to drop tough
racketeering charges against futures traders, despite the
mixed verdict a jury returned against three Swiss franc
futures traders this summer in the first court test of the
federal probe.
   Two of the Swiss franc traders were found guilty of a
total of eight Commodity Exchange Act violations. But a jury
couldn't reach a verdict on a racketeering conspiracy charge
against futures broker Robert Mosky, or on two-thirds of the
more than 100 counts against the three traders.
   The Justice Department was criticized for over-reaching in
bringing racketeering charges, usually reserved for alleged
Mafia members, against 17 of the 48 individuals indicted last
August for stealing from customers. In addition to mandatory
jail terms if found guilty of racketeering, the traders also
would have to forfeit certain assets and profits earned via
the racketeering activity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   ACT III's McGrath
   To Leave Concern;
   Successor Is Named
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Norman Lear's 80%-owned ACT III
Communications Inc. said Thomas B. McGrath, its president and
chief operating officer, will leave the entertainment concern
to pursue new career opportunities.
   Hal Gaba, a 44-year-old partner in HR Broadcasting, a
closely held Beverly Hills, Calif., owner and operator of
independent television stations, will succeed Mr. McGrath,
35, in both posts. Mr. Gaba was formerly vice chairman of Hal
Roach Studios and president of Embassy Pay-TV, a division of
Embassy Communications, of which Mr. Lear is part owner. Mr.
Lear remains chairman and chief executive of ACT III.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The executive change reflects a shift in ACT III's
strategy, say individuals close to the company. When Mr. Lear
started the company five years ago, he began with a pot of
money from the profits of his successful television career;
otherwise it was a blank slate. Driven by Mr. McGrath's
skills as a dealmaker, ACT III made a number of major
acquisitions in television stations, movie theaters and trade
publishing. The company's fourth area is entertainment.
   But as the dealmaking fever of the 1980s has waned, the
company wants to concentrate on expanding and managing its
existing lines of business rather than buying into new areas,
these individuals say. And Mr. Gaba is an administrator who
will be charged with reversing the troubled fortunes of the
publishing unit, controlling the debt load taken on during
the acquisitions and running the company while Mr. Lear
concentrates on producing television shows.
   Mr. McGrath couldn't immediately be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foothill Group Unit
   Told by Court to Pay
   $564,000 in Damages
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FGI
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- A state court jury here ordered Foothill
Thrift &amp; Loan to pay $564,000 in damages to Videoscope Inc.
and certain of its principals for "breach of fiduciary duty"
and "unjust enrichment."
   Videoscope, a closely held renter of surveillance cameras,
said that its secured creditor, Foothill, kept more money
than it should have after taking over Videoscope when that
company couldn't pay its debts to Foothill in 1985.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Foothill "stole and kept money that it wasn't entitled
to," said Allan Browne, an attorney who represented two
Videoscope investors. The jury awarded the damages to
Videoscope and to its two principals, Bernard C. Lurie and J.
Bud Morris.
   The jury didn't award damages to Mr. Browne's clients, who
were passive investors. "They will recover directly from
Videoscope as stockholders," the attorney said.
   A spokesman for Foothill Group Inc., parent of Foothill
Thrift &amp; Loan, said the company was "pleased" with the
verdict because the award was substantially less than the $25
million sought, separately, by Videoscope and its principals
and by the investors.
   "We're uncertain whether we'll appeal," the spokesman
said.
   Foothill has spent about $1 million in legal costs and
related fees since the case was filed in 1986, the spokesman
said. Foothill said it hopes to recover a portion of those
costs from the passive investors. Their attorney, Mr. Browne,
said he believes that hope is "a fantasy."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OPEC Is Seen
   Clearing a Boost
   In Oil Output
   ---
   Approval Is Expected Today
   On Move to Offset Loss
   From Middle East Crisis
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   VIENNA -- Oil ministers meeting here delayed, probably
until today, announcement of plans by the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries to help offset world oil losses
from the Middle East crisis.
   Despite opposition by Iran, a majority of OPEC's ministers
agreed early yesterday to endorse production increases by any
of the 13 member nations with unused capacity. That action
would temporarily suspend output quotas established by the
group in July, and sanction combined additional output of
about three million barrels of oil a day by Saudi Arabia,
Venezuela and the United Arab Emirates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's an agreement to allow those who can do so to
increase production on a temporary basis," Diego Tamariz,
Ecuador's oil minister, said in an interview, adding: "Once
the crisis is over, we will go back to the July agreement."
   Though sought by the three countries, OPEC's approval of
their plans to raise output doesn't change the prevailing
outlook for oil supplies. That's because the nations involved
previously indicated they would go ahead without OPEC
sanction if necessary. So world oil markets have been
operating for weeks on the assumption the added oil
eventually would be coming.
   The ministers held off announcing their decision so that
absent representatives from Libya and Iraq could be notified
that the informal talks that began Sunday had been turned
into an official meeting of the organization's ministerial
monitoring committee.
   The output increases authorized by the meeting here won't
fully replace the four million barrels a day of oil removed
from world oil markets by the current embargo by consuming
nations against crude from Iraq and Iraq-occupied Kuwait. As
a result, OPEC also plans to call on the International Energy
Agency to help replace some of the lost oil.
   The Paris-based group is an organization of 21 major
oil-consuming nations formed in the wake of the oil shocks of
the 1970s to share supplies during shortages.
   OPEC plans to ask the IEA to have its members' governments
draw on oil they hold in storage and to share immediately the
"present huge inventories" of petroleum owned by oil
companies. OPEC's specific goal is that some of that oil be
shared with developing countries that don't have such stocks.
   Iran has tried to persuade OPEC to postpone any production
increases until the end of September while consuming nations
use up their oil stockpiles. Yesterday, Iranian oil minister
Gholamreza Aghazadeh recommended that the ministerial
committee meeting here be delayed for a week, "after which I
will propose OPEC should meet with the IEA."
   He maintained such a joint meeting would help oil-market
stability immediately and in the event a Middle East war
breaks out. "If we do this, we will have used the best time
-- a chance we should not ignore -- to bring about
cooperation between consumers and producers," he said.
   Neither the IEA nor the other oil ministers seemed
enthusiastic about Mr. Aghazadeh's suggestion. A Paris
official of the IEA was quoted by the Dow Jones International
Petroleum Report as saying that a meeting with OPEC "is not
in the cards."
   Meanwhile, several other delegates, including those from
Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, were becoming irritated over the
duration of the meeting. "We are preparing our departure {by
noon today}," said one delegate, "and if the agreement isn't
signed by then, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela will leave."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   In-Store Advertising Plunges 7 1/2 to 7 1/4;
   Market Edges Higher in Quiet Trading
   ----
   By Anne Newman and Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   In an otherwise lackluster day of over-the-counter
trading, investors clobbered newly public In-Store
Advertising after the New York company said that 1990 revenue
will be substantially below expectations.
   In-Store Advertising lost more than half its market value
in a 7 1/2-point dive to 7 1/4 -- less than two months after
the installer of promotional signs for supermarkets went
public at $19 a share. The news sent investment bankers at
Alex. Brown &amp; Sons, which led the initial underwriting,
scurrying to New York to investigate the company's outlook.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The unexpected forecast was a "clear surprise," according
to Alex. Brown Chief Operating Officer A.B. Krongard, who
called the due-diligence examination of the company
"intense." However, yesterday's disaster adds to recent
embarrassments for Alex. Brown, one of this year's lead
underwriters of initial and secondary offerings.
   Elsewhere, OTC stocks added slightly to Monday's sharp
gains in quiet trading as investors continued to watch the
Middle East. The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 1.59 to 382.86,
a 0.42% gain. Volume dwindled to 117.8 million shares from
129.4 million Monday. Advancing stocks still led decliners,
1,045 to 855. But 120 issues hit new lows yesterday while
only 12 reached new highs.
   The day's low volume indicates "it doesn't look like
anyone's convinced" the market will sustain a rally, said
Hedi Reynolds, director of OTC trading at Morgan Keegan &amp; Co.
in Memphis. "We seem to be slaves to what news comes out of
Iraq," said Lance Zipper, head of OTC trading at Kidder
Peabody &amp; Co., noting that institutions "nibbled" at
better-quality stocks.
   Shortly after the market opened, In-Store reported that it
expects full-year 1990 revenue will be "substantially below"
analysts projections. In-Store said delays in deliveries to
certain customers, a slowdown in advertisers' commitments for
the second half of the year and a soft advertising market,
among other factors, will produce 1990 revenue much lower
than expected. Analysts had been estimating 1990 revenue for
the company of $29 million, more than three times 1989
revenue of $8.3 million.
   Analyst James Thayer of Bear Stearns &amp; Co., which
co-managed the In-Store offering, said that he had been
expecting In-Store's 1990 revenue would reach about $30
million, with earnings of about 40 cents a share. His
estimates now are under review. In-Store also reported that
its second quarter losses narrowed to seven cents a share
from 20 cents a year earlier. The company said it is on track
with plans to expand its signs into 3,600 stores by year end
and 6,000 by the end of 1991.
   Alex. Brown defends its underwritings, pointing out that
the average price increase of all its lead-managed initial
public offerings in 1989 and 1990 was 41% through the first
half of the year, compared with a 3.1% rise in the Standard &amp;
Poor's 500 index during the same period. However, the
company's reputation recently has been sullied as two stock
offerings -- Urcarco and BizMart -- suffered following
disappointing earnings outlooks.
   At Piper Jaffray &amp; Hopwood in Minneapolis, investors
continue to buy some of the stronger medical-related issues,
said Nicholas Karos, senior OTC trader there. Among the day's
gainers, St. Jude Medical added 1 3/8 to 31 5/8; United
Health Care added 1/4 to 17 3/8; and U.S. HealthCare gained
3/4 to 19.
   Oracle Systems, the day's most active stock, slid 1 7/8 to
a 52-week low of 12 3/8 after analysts at Dean Witter
Reynolds and Montgomery Securities lowered their 1991
earnings estimates for the Redwood City, Calif., marketer of
database software, according to Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report.
   Traders also told DJPIR the analysts' comments added to
selling pressure caused by Oracle's announcement late Monday
that it restated its revenue for the second and third
quarters of the 1990 fiscal year ended May 1991.
   Montgomery analyst David Bayer, maintaining a "hold"
opinion on Oracle, said he doesn't expect Oracle's shares to
react well to earnings uncertainties and overall skittishness
in the market.
   However, Dean Witter Reynolds analyst Timothy R. McCollum
told DJPIR he's maintaining a long-term "buy" opinion on the
stock and expects Oracle to perform well in 12 to 18 months
after negotiating a new phase in its growth "similar to what
Sun Microsystems went through last year."
   Novell, the day's second most-active stock, gained 2 1/2
to 26 1/2. Monday, the Provo, Utah, maker of high-performance
computer networking systems exceeded analysts' expectations
with earnings for the third quarter ended July 28 of 38 cents
a share, more than double year-earlier earnings of 18 cents a
share.
   Salomon Brothers analyst Michel Guite said in an interview
that the bullish report prompted him to raise his earnings
estimates for Novell to $1.30 a share in 1990 and $1.61 in
1991 from his previous estimates of $1.26 and $1.51 a share,
respectively. In 1989, Novell earned 73 cents a share,
adjusted for a two-for-one stock split paid Aug. 17.
   Mr. Guite, who was among several analysts who repeated
"buy" opinions on Novell last week, said he expects the
company will be able to sustain earnings growth even amid a
slowdown in technology because of its move into
less-expensive software products from hardware products.
   Other technology shares were mixed. Sun Microsystems added
3/4 to 29 5/8; Microsoft jumped 2 1/8 to 67 7/8; Quantum
gained 1 1/8 to 18 3/8; Apple Computer rose 3/8 to 38 1/8;
and Conner Peripherals edged up 1/8 to 23 3/4. Intel,
however, eased 5/8 to 35 5/8.
   VLSI Technology skidded 1 3/8 to 5 1/2 after the San Jose,
Calif., maker of integrated circuits said it expects a
third-quarter loss. VLSI cited a soft market and its decision
to get out of the "highly competitive" static random-access
memory business. The company expects the phaseout will result
in a one-time, third-quarter charge of $12 million to $15
million. In addition, VLSI said it expects an operating loss
for the quarter.
   Powell Industries climbed 1 to 9 1/2 after the Houston
maker of controls and other equipment reported net income
from continuing operations for the third quarter ended July
31 rose to 21 cents a share from eight cents a year earlier.
Powell also said it expects continued improvement in all
operations for the remainder of the year.
   Tech Data Corp. climbed 1/2 to 6, although the Clearwater,
Fla., distributor of computer hardware products reported
Monday that net income for the second quarter ended July 31
fell to 20 cents a share from 30 cents a year earlier.
   Mid-American Waste Systems, also a recent initial public
offering underwritten by Alex. Brown &amp; Sons, extended its
slide after it was reported Monday that Waste Management Inc.
rather than Mid-American could snare a major contract with
the city of Jacksonville, Fla. Mid-American skidded 2 1/2 to
25. The company went public in May at $24 a share.
   BayBanks added 7/8 to 12 7/8 in brisk trading on
speculation that Laurence Tisch, who recently increased his
stake in Bank of Boston Corp., might have been the buyer
Friday of more than 500,000 BayBanks shares, DJPIR reported.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   AmeriTrust Names
   Interim Chairman,
   Chief Executive
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   AMTR WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- AmeriTrust Corp., reeling from bad loans,
named a director as its interim chairman and chief executive
officer while it undergoes a restructuring.
   Jerry V. Jarrett, who has headed AmeriTrust since 1983,
was replaced by Craig R. Smith, a former machine-tool
executive and an AmeriTrust director since 1980.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The announcement comes two weeks after the bank holding
company, which had a first-half loss of $33.2 million, said
it would cut 780 jobs, or 11.5% of its work force.
   Mr. Jarrett, 58, in recent years had moved into such
high-risk areas as providing financing for leveraged
buy-outs.
   Mr. Smith, 65, is chairman of a special AmeriTrust board
committee established this year to focus on credit-quality
concerns. He is a former chairman and chief executive of
Warner &amp; Swasey Co., an old-line Cleveland machine-tool
concern now owned by Cross &amp; Trecker Corp., Bloomfield Hills,
Mich.
   James D. Rode, 42, president of AmeriTrust and its lead
bank, AmeriTrust Co., will serve as chief operating officer
of the holding company and will succeed Mr. Jarrett as
chairman and chief executive of the bank.
   AmeriTrust made a first-quarter provision for possible
loan losses of $120 million after an examination by federal
regulators. It also announced a $20.9 million loan-loss
provision in the second quarter, nearly double the $10.5
million provision of a year earlier.
   Nonperforming assets as of June 30 totaled $262.4 million,
or 3.15% of loans and real estate holdings, up from $157.4
million, or 1.98%, a year earlier. The nonperforming loan
ratio "isn't all that bad" compared with some other banks,
Mr. Smith said in a telephone interview. "But this is a
conservative bank."
   In national over-the-counter trading, AmeriTrust rose 50
cents to $14.125, less than half its 52-week high of $29.
   Mr. Smith said the board hasn't set a timetable for
selecting a permanent chief executive. He said he may serve
as briefly as six months or as long as two years or more. He
added that it's possible Mr. Rode will succeed him, but the
board hasn't made any decision and hasn't hired a consulting
firm to seek other candidates.
   Along with the management changes, AmeriTrust has said it
plans a more conservative strategy, focusing on consumer
banking, trust and investment management, and lending to
small and medium-sized companies in the Midwest.
   The bank holding company's cost-cutting program is
expected to reduce expenses by $28 million in 1991 and $32
million in 1992, AmeriTrust said. However, it said those
moves will result in a restructuring charge of between $14
million and $18 million in the current quarter.
   AmeriTrust, which once was called Cleveland Trust Co., was
until recently the city's leading bank. It had a strong
position with most of the large companies headquartered in
northeast Ohio. However, it was less aggressive than other
major Ohio banks in making acquisitions, and its $11 billion
of assets are now less than half the $23 billion of National
City Corp., Cleveland's largest bank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks Trade in a Narrow Range
   As Investors Await Mideast News
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The stock market, breaking a recent pattern of
sharp price swings, finished mixed in lackluster trading.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 3.22 to 2614.85 --
its smallest price change by far in nearly two weeks -- as
the latest developments in the Persian Gulf conflict failed
to sway the market much in either direction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We're back to a neutral zone, where {the market} could
break either way depending on the news in the Middle East,"
said Ronald B. Doran, director of institutional trading at
C.L. King &amp; Associates, Albany, N.Y.
   Broader market indexes also finished the session near
Monday's closing levels. Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index
dropped 0.10 to 321.34, the New York Stock Exchange Composite
Index rose 0.08 to 176.26 and the Dow Jones Equity Market
Index rose 0.01 to 297.67.
   Speculation about a possible negotiated settlement of the
Mideast crisis had fueled a surge in stocks Monday, when the
Dow Jones industrials soared 78.71 points after rising 49.50
points Friday. In the three sessions immediately before that
rebound, the average had tumbled a total of 173.02 points.
   By contrast, the industrial average spent the latest
session drifting within a range of less than 20 points.
   Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by 837 to 664 on
the New York Stock Exchange, where the pace of trading slowed
for the third session in a row. Big Board volume totaled
127,650,000 shares, down from 160,150,000 shares Monday.
   The market's earlier display of volatility "has scared a
lot of people," Mr. Doran said, and many players have
retreated to the sidelines to await further events in the
Middle East crisis. "From a trading standpoint, you have to
take a low profile and keep your head down, knowing that
sparks could fly at any moment."
   In the meantime, the market was able to hold its ground
despite an upturn in October crude-oil futures, which
rebounded 97 cents a barrel in New York trading after
plunging $4 a barrel Monday, and renewed weakness in the bond
market. Longterm Treasury bond prices fell a half point, or
$5 per $1,000 face amount.
   Donald E. Carver, president of Centre Square Investment
Group, Philadelphia, said he expects the market to go through
a "wait-and-see" period and remain on hold through the Labor
Day weekend.
   "We're guessing that this is a good time to do
bottom-picking," Mr. Carver said, although he added that his
firm is concentrating on consumer issues which have
multinational operations and "predictable earnings growth
rates."
   Chevron added 1 1/8 to 75 5/8, Texaco climbed 1 3/4 to 62
3/4 and Exxon gained 1/2 to 50 1/8, providing a lift to the
Dow Jones industrials. Other major oil stocks also posted
solid gains; Mobil gained 1 to 63 1/4, Amoco added 1 3/8 to
55 3/4 and British Petroleum jumped 2 1/2 to 81 1/2.
   McDermott International advanced 1 1/4 to 27 1/4 as
oilfield-services issues also rallied. Schlumberger gained 1
1/4 to 63 1/4, Halliburton added 7/8 to 53 and Dresser
Industries rose 3/8 to 47 3/8.
   General Motors, which said it is stepping up production of
cars equipped with driver-side air bags, rose 1 1/8 to 40 1/4
on composite volume of 1.7 million shares. The stock was the
Big Board's most active issue.
   Separately, the United Auto Workers picked GM as its
target for this year's contract talks with the Big Three U.S.
automakers, as expected. Shares of the other two auto makers
also moved higher; Ford Motor added 3/8 to 35 7/8 and
Chrysler rose 1/2 to 13 1/4.
   TCBY Enterprises fell 1 1/2 to 7 5/8 after forecasting net
income of 25 cents to 30 cents a share for its third quarter
ending Aug. 31, down from 43 cents a share a year ago. The
company noted that sales at stores open at least one year had
shown percentage drops of about 15% during June and July.
   L.A. Gear climbed 7/8 to 15 1/4 on 1.5 million shares.
Several analysts contacted by Dow Jones Professional Investor
Report said they couldn't explain the rally; other market
players pointed to possible short covering, or buying to
offset sales of borrowed stock, according to the investor
report.
   Gap Inc. added 1/2 to 52 7/8. The company declared a
2-for-1 stock split and boosted its quarterly dividend by
32%.
   Cineplex Odeon, featured in The Wall Street Journal's
"Heard on the Street" column yesterday, went up 1/2 to 3. A
glimmer of a turnaround at the debt-laden company and the
recession-resistant potential of its movie-theater operations
have caused a few investors to warm up to the stock, the
Journal reported.
   USAir Group dipped 3/8 to 15 7/8. A page-one story in the
Journal yesterday outlined several problems facing the
airline, including tough competition, high costs and
narrowing margins, as well as vulnerability to higher fuel
prices and to a U.S. recession. Separately, a group led by
hedge-fund manager Michael H. Steinhardt disclosed that it
had raised its stake in USAir to 9.46%.
   Newmont Mining gained 5/8 to 47 5/8. The company sold a
20% stake in Newmont Australia to Poseidon Gold, which began
a stock-swap offer for the remaining shares. Newmont Mining
said it still holds about 24% of Newmont Australia's common
and plans to either sell the shares in the open market or
tender them to Sydney, Australia-based Poseidon.
   Other precious-metals stocks also firmed modestly despite
a drop in gold prices as the sector, left out of the market's
surge Monday, drew renewed buying interest. American Barrick
Resources rose 1 3/8 to 21 5/8, Placer Dome rose 1/4 to 17
5/8, Battle Mountain Gold added 3/8 to 10 7/8 and Homestake
Mining rose 1/4 to 20.
   Santa Fe Pacific, which revised the terms of an offer to
swap cash and common stock for $200 million of debentures,
fell 3/4 to 15 7/8. Citing the market's recent plunge, the
company cut the minimum exchange value of common to be issued
under the offer by $3 a share, to $15.
   Meredith rose 1 1/2 to 24 1/2. A federal court rejected a
motion by the Federal Trade Commission to block R.R.
Donnelley  &amp; Sons' proposed $487.5 million acquisition of the
company's Meredith-Burda unit. Donnelley dropped 3/8 to 39.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 1.05
to 321.78. Volume totaled 10,280,000 shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Desert Roughnecks:
   In Yemen's Oil Patch,
   Hunt Firm Finds It Is
   Best to Ignore Politics
   ---
   The Texas Drillers Overcome
   Nation's Support of Iraq
   By Sticking to Business
   ---
   Check All Daggers at the Door
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   MARIB, Yemen -- In what the Texans here call the chow
hall, workers tuck into barbecued chicken under the brooding
gaze of a portrait of Saddam Hussein hung on the wall.
   Yemeni employees taped up the huge, tinsel-edged portrait
more than a week ago, causing consternation among their
American colleagues. "A couple of the guys took exception to
it," says Ray Cooke, assistant manager of Hunt Consolidated
Inc.'s oil refinery here. "They wanted to tear it down. I
said `Nope. You leave it right where it is.'"
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The reason: Dallas-based Hunt wants to stay right where it
is -- profitably pumping out the oil it discovered in Yemen
in 1984. Iraq's invasion of Kuwait has put the American
company's oil fields smack in the middle of a political mine
field. Yemen's government backs Iraq and decries the presence
of U.S. forces in the region. As American troops began
arriving in neighboring Saudi Arabia, Yemenis began
demonstrating: Hundreds of dagger-wielding protesters hurled
stones at the U.S. Embassy in the capital, Sanaa.
   Out in remote Marib, at the edge of the vast desert aptly
named the Empty Quarter, the silvery loops of Hunt's refinery
poke from the sand like half-buried paper clips. The nearest
Yemeni buildings, almost 22 miles distant, are a cluster of
ancient mud-brick towers. Much of the local traffic still
travels by camelback. At the refinery, Americans in baseball
caps work alongside turbaned Yemenis, some of whom are local
tribesmen who check their "jambias" -- nine-inch daggers --
and AK-47 assault rifles at the gatehouse on their way to
work. It isn't the kind of place where anyone wants to start
an argument over politics.
   "We all are with Saddam Hussein," says Mohammed Zain, a
storekeeper at the refinery. "We support him against all
foreign troops. But the Americans here are our brothers," he
adds, and "we don't talk about it with them."
   Richard Davis, general manager of Hunt's Yemen operations,
hopes it stays that way. "We are trying to keep a low profile
and get on with the job," he says. That's easier said than
done. Oil accounts for about half of Yemen's revenue, and
Hunt controls the oil business.
   With scores of U.S. and European Hunt employees based
here, the company is a conspicuous presence in this small,
isolated country. Hunt's four-wheel-drive vehicles crisscross
the desert, its microwave dishes dot the mountain crags, its
helicopters clatter through the skies, and its tall Texas oil
men tower over Yemenis in the towns. Besides running the
refinery, Hunt, with Exxon Corp. as a minority partner, is
drilling new wells and pumping crude through a mountain
pipeline for export. It is also conducting seismic surveys in
a consortium that includes Kuwait's oil company, now
operating in exile. "They are, in every sense, a cowboy
outfit," says a British diplomat in Sanaa. "If they pulled
out, I don't think any other company would come in."
   Closely held Hunt, whose U.S. interests include
well-servicing, real estate and agribusiness, has a corporate
style that certainly is idiosyncratic. The boardroom
politesse of its executives often belies a barroom toughness
useful in Yemen, where even in normal times the business
climate presents unusual challenges. Parts of Yemen still are
under control of armed tribes whose relationship with the
central government can be tenuous. Hunt has had vehicles
"borrowed" by tribesmen, with the government generally having
to ransom them back by building a schoolhouse or health
clinic.
   Tom Meurer, who handles political liaison for the company,
remembers the day a Hunt engineer drove past a waving
tribesman. "When the vehicle didn't stop, he laid a round
from his Kalashnikov around it," he says. "All he wanted was
a liter of gas. It was one way to get attention."
   Hunt's origins, in the oil fields of West Texas, help it
fit the Yemen milieu. At one point, the company decided to
present a gift to Yemen's president. Recalls Mr. Meurer: "We
wanted to give him something that expressed what Texas was
all about." They decided on a pistol, holster and 50 rounds
of ammunition.
   In the nine years since its first explorers went out to
find oil in Yemen, the company has built a network of
relationships reaching from the humblest Bedouin camel herder
right up to the presidential palace. When a tribe near Hunt's
rigs needed a water well, Hunt employees found time to sink
it. And when the president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, recently made
his first visit to the White House, Hunt invited him to
Dallas for some Texas-style hospitality that included a rodeo
in Fort Worth.
   The company doesn't disclose figures relating to its
operations, but its venture in Yemen is one of its largest
and most profitable, with total investment estimated at
around $1 billion. Robert Weiss, an analyst with Standard &amp;
Poor's, says in a report that while the company's domestic
operations are satisfactory, it is the 200,000-barrel-a-day
production in Yemen that "raises considerably Hunt's overall
business profile" and earns it an A+ credit rating.
   News of the Kuwait invasion sent tremors through the
company. Ray Hunt, its chairman and chief executive officer,
was home in Dallas watching TV when the story broke late at
night. "I went, `Oh, nuts,' or probably put it a little
stronger than that,'" says the 47-year-old Mr. Hunt, who owns
the company along with his mother and three sisters. He is a
son of the late Texas wildcatter H.L. Hunt, but his business
interests are separate from those of his better-known
half-brothers, Bunker, Herbert and Lamar. H.L. Hunt
concentrated his oil operations in the U.S., but when Ray
Hunt took over the company he took the oil search overseas.
   And not just anywhere. A list of countries in which Hunt
has interests reads like a State Department travel warning.
It just signed an exploration agreement in war-torn Ethiopia.
It is searching for oil in Laos, with an exploration
concession that includes part of the Ho Chi Minh trail. And
it is trying to strike up a deal with strife-ridden Burma.
   "What we try to do is lean against the wind," Mr. Hunt
says. "If all you do is what everybody else does, then if you
survive, your success will only be modest." He likens Hunt's
competition with the Mobils and Texacos of the world to "a
guerrilla force going up against a conventional army." Hunt
can move quickly into areas unappetizing to large
bureaucracies -- or skittish shareholders.
   But looking for big rewards means managing big risks. The
night Iraq invaded Kuwait, executives from Dallas to Sanaa
scrambled to assess the likely impact on the company. Mr.
Meurer, the political troubleshooter, got a late-night call
from the chief financial officer asking for an evaluation to
be presented the next day at a meeting of management.
   "I started turning over the `what ifs' and didn't go back
to sleep," Mr. Meurer says. On an early-morning jog, he
roughed out scenarios based on Yemen's regional alliances,
the impact on Hunt's Kuwaiti exploration partner and the
likely consequences of U.S. intervention.
   It was when the Yemen representative on the United Nations
Security Council declined to vote on a resolution condemning
the invasion that "the scorecards started being kept," says
Mr. Davis in Sanaa. Yemen's delegate said he didn't have
instructions on how to vote, reflecting the dilemma posed by
the country's alliance with Iraq, but receipt of aid from
Kuwait. For Hunt, that stand created confusion. "We didn't
have enough information to know why the vote was cast as it
was," says Mr. Davis.
   When the U.S. military intervened, the mood in Yemen
became clear. Most of the population swung behind Iraq, and
anger at America expressed itself in the streets. Hunt's
primary concern was the safety of its employees in Yemen, the
number of which it won't disclose. Good communication helped.
Overseas radio bulletins were reporting 10,000 demonstrators
trying to storm the U.S. Embassy. "Fortunately, I was on the
phone to corporate headquarters in the States when that
report came over," says Mr. Davis, and was able to explain
that the bulletin apparently had been based on exaggerated
accounts by Iraq's news service. In fact, no more than 500
Yemenis were outside the embassy, and Yemen's police were
containing the protest.
   Communication with the government also proved reassuring.
A few days into the crisis, the foreign minister called Mr.
Davis with a message from the president, saying the events
wouldn't affect Yemen's relationship with Hunt, and any
support the drillers needed would be forthcoming.
   The government also ordered a stop to stone-throwing
during demonstrations. Protestors now are limited to shouting
and waving placards. The president also stressed in a
television interview that foreigners in Yemen were working
for the good of the country and didn't have anything to do
with the Western forces massing in Saudi Arabia.
   "We want the Americans to get out of there, not out of
here," says Abdul Hakim Mohammed, a Yemeni driver for Hunt.
   Protecting foreigners who provide useful skills is deeply
embedded in Yemeni custom. For hundreds of years, Jewish
silversmiths in Yemen were considered neutrals in tribal
wars. "Protected people providing useful services aren't
supposed to be cut up into small and bloody pieces," explains
a Western diplomat.
   Nevertheless, the company decided to pull out the families
of workers. A few days later, the U.S. Embassy made the same
decision for dependents of its staff, sending them home along
with all Peace Corps volunteers. Then, Hunt sent in Mr.
Meurer and two of its top security men to assess the
situation and send a message of reassurance to the staff.
   "Everybody isn't staying behind a desk in Dallas," Mr.
Hunt says. "I don't think we could have asked for more in
terms of a response from the government," but even so, it
pays to be prudent. "Even the U.S. can't guarantee the
security of its president 100%."
   Hunt's two security directors, Walt Coughlin and Wilber
Rainey, know a thing or two about that. Both are former
Secret Service agents assigned to the White House during the
turbulent Vietnam War era. Arriving in Yemen, they went first
to the Marib refinery that sits atop the vast oil field the
company struck with its first wildcat well.
   The field isn't far from Yemen's ill-defined border with
Saudi Arabia, and relations between the two countries are
precarious. If Yemen were to allow Iraqi forces to cross its
border with Saudi Arabia, State Department analysts speculate
that the Saudis could retaliate by financing a terrorist hit
on Yemen's oil infrastructure.
   Don McNelis, vice president of operations in Yemen, doubts
that would happen. "For one thing, you've got armed tribesmen
for about 30 miles all around here who are pretty picky about
who moves on their land," he says. And at the refinery
itself, Yemen's army is guarding the perimeter and manning
checkpoints on the road. "When you've got the army helping
you it makes your job a lot easier," says Mr. Coughlin. "So
long as their guns are pointing the right way, you're okay."
   To some extent, Mr. Coughlin says, the refinery and the
drilling sites are protected by their isolation. It is in the
city that the risk of an attack is higher. Hunt has advised
its staff to stay out of town as much as possible, but so far
additional security hasn't been considered necessary.
   Most Yemenis see the company as a promise of increased
prosperity, says Abdel Malik Assindi, an official with the
ministry of information. "People here believe that the big
oil companies knew there was oil here but were pressured by
the Saudis against exploring for it. They see Ray Hunt as a
man who plays his own hand of cards, and they admire that,"
he says.
   Indeed, as many Westerners scramble to find flights out of
the region, Hunt employees are among the few still flying in.
Most employees are on a 28-day rotation, working consecutive
12-hour days in the desert and then flying home for a month's
break. So far, Mr. McNelis says, everyone due back in Yemen
has turned up on schedule.
   Hunt employees don't talk about worst-case scenarios. Most
believe there won't be one, because the interests of the
country and the company are identical. Oil companies in much
more hostile situations have kept right on with their
operations. Occidental Petroleum stayed in Libya during the
nadir of U.S. relations with Col. Moammar Gadhafi. In Angola,
Cuban troops protected Gulf Oil operations during the war.
Hunt believes the key is staying out of politics -- and
putting up with Saddam portraits in the chow hall. "We are
just oil finders from Texas," Mr. Meurer says. "Politics
isn't our business."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hedgers Enjoy an Edge as Oil Prices Swing
   ----
   This article was prepared by
   Jeffrey Taylor, Asra Q. Nomani
   And Stanley W. Angrist
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines spends a lot of money at the
fuel dock. But even though petroleum prices have soared to
their highest levels in five years, all is calm at the
company's Miami headquarters.
   That's because of a risk-management tool called a
commodity swap. Months before Iraq overran Kuwait, Royal
Caribbean used the tool to hedge against price increases for
much of its fuel needs this year and beyond. This year, the
swap entitles the company to pay $18.41 a barrel for oil.
That will save Royal Caribbean about $10 a barrel over the
current price every time it fills one of its 750,000-gallon
shipboard fuel tanks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite the obvious benefits of hedging in times like
these, companies that hedge their oil needs are a minority.
Scores of corporations and other big fuel users have had to
admit they were caught off guard by the oil run-up. Now they
are paying fuel bills that are as much as 35% higher than a
month ago.
   AMR Corp.'s American Airlines, for instance, estimates its
fuel bill this year will be more than $300 million higher
than last year. The Postal Service expects an extra $45
million in costs through the end of this year. The Los
Angeles mass transit system fears it hasn't allocated enough
money to fuel its buses. Meanwhile, truckers and railroads
are imposing fuel surcharges, and utilities are seeking rate
increases.
   Much of this turmoil could have been avoided. Corporations
dependent on a commodity such as oil can lock in prices and
protect themselves from price swings. The strategies range
from using futures and options contracts traded at major
exchanges to forward contracts and so-called swap
transactions. All of these hedging strategies amount to
pretty much the same thing -- hog and soybean farmers have
done it for years.
   The purpose of hedging isn't to minimize cost but to
minimize risk. Hedgers often end up paying more for a
commodity when prices are low, but they are not as badly
stung when prices jump. Hedging allows them to predict and
manage their future costs better. This makes business
planning more reliable, which is especially important for
companies that carry a lot of debt because it helps ensure
that they will be able to meet interest obligations.
   A buyer of crude oil who wants to guard against rising
prices, for instance, would buy futures at current prices if
he thought them satisfactory. The futures contracts represent
an obligation to buy a specified quantity of a commodity such
as crude oil or heating oil, at an agreed-upon price by a
certain date. If prices later rise, the added oil expense
will be offset by a profit in the futures market. If prices
fall, the loss incurred on the futures will be offset by the
benefit of lower oil prices.
   Hedging is also done in what is called the swaps market.
In a swap agreement, an oil user or producer agrees to lock
in the price it will pay or receive at a predictable level.
This is typically done through a bank or a hedging manager.
   By using commodity swaps, Royal Caribbean estimates it
will save $2 million on fuel costs for the rest of 1990. The
cruise line, which first began trying to manage its oil costs
last year, says it now has swap hedges in place to lock 40%
of its fuel costs through 1991. It will pay $18.41 a barrel
for fuel through 1990 and $19.65 a barrel in 1991. The 1991
hedge, which covers the equivalent of about 500,000 barrels
of crude oil, would save the company an estimated $4.1
million at today's fuel prices.
   CSX Corp., a national freight company, also hedges
routinely to protect the 850 million gallons of fuel it needs
annually to run its trains and barges. The company has been
hedging for three years, using everything from swap
arrangements to options and futures contract trades, says a
company spokesman. When Iraq attacked Kuwait, some of the
fuel CSX will need through 1990 was hedged with a strategy
known as options participation, using call options on crude
oil contracts that entitle the holder to buy the oil for a
specified price over a specified period.
   CSX bought its contracts when the price of fuel was
relatively low. Now, because of the oil-price run-up, they're
worth much more than CSX paid for them. For example, a call
contract that gives its owner the right to buy crude at $20 a
barrel and sold for about a $1 a barrel two months ago would
be worth over $9 a barrel.
   Since the invasion, CSX has been selling off some of its
call contracts for a profit, which it then uses to reduce the
pain of paying more for fuel. It still holds some options and
futures contracts, though it won't specify what kind or how
many.
   The costs of hedging vary widely depending upon the
technique. Commodity swaps, often arranged by banks, don't
require the payment of any premium at all; the bank typically
pairs a fuel producer and a fuel user who both want to swap,
and collects a differential between what the producer
receives and the user pays for oil.
   To trade options or futures contracts, companies must set
aside capital and pay commissions. But these instruments
allow the buyer to leverage its control of a commodity. For
instance, for an up-front margin investment of about $6,000,
a company on July 20 could have bought three September
heating-oil futures contracts (42,000 gallons each) on the
New York Mercantile Exchange, then valued at $71,631. On Aug.
20, the buyer could have sold those contracts at a profit of
$32,899.
   Most companies manage their hedging with tiny staffs. At
Cenex Inc., an oil refining division of Land O' Lakes Inc.,
David Zanussi runs a two-man department that manages all of
the company's hedging positions in options and futures, as
well as commodity swaps and forward contracts, an agreement
to purchase or sell fuel at a given price over a period of
time.
   The uncertainty since the Mideast crisis began Aug. 2 has
raised the costs of some hedging techniques. On Aug. 1, an
option on an October crude-oil contract with an exercise
price near what was then the price of oil ($22) cost 92 cents
a barrel. By Aug. 10, an option on the October crude contract
near its then current price ($26) cost $1.83 -- nearly double
the pre-invasion level. Margin requirements on oil futures
contracts have also risen sharply since the invasion.
   Even when the costs of hedging were lower, many companies
were reluctant to even try it. Despite their huge dependence
on jet fuel, for instance, few U.S. airlines have made
serious efforts to hedge. (Many of their European rivals use
hedging techniques routinely.) USAir Group Inc. and NWA
Inc.'s Northwest Airlines both say they have experimented
with hedging; other carriers, such as American Air, say they
don't hedge at all.
   U.S. airlines have been reluctant to hedge partly because
they still view commodities markets as something just short
of gambling houses. "I don't want to tell my board we have a
big payout to make {on hedging positions} because I guessed
wrong on the direction of oil prices," says the comptroller
of one U.S. airline.
   Airlines also apparently feel there is safety in numbers:
If no carrier hedges, the whole industry is affected in the
same way, whether oil prices decline or fall. That way, the
industry is also more likely to move in lock-step in
attempting to pass cost increases on to consumers in the form
of higher fares.
   But carriers with large debt loads are under increased
pressure to manage their finances with as much predictability
as possible. Last year, Northwest Airlines saved more than $7
million in fuel costs because it hedged 4.2 million gallons
of its fuel purchases for each month. Because Northwest buys
more than five million gallons a day, that was a drop in the
bucket. But the airline still found the experiment
encouraging.
   The Persian Gulf crisis has sparked a lot of interest in
hedging, most immediately among oil producers. Volume on the
New York Merc, where a number of petroleum-related contracts
are traded, has jumped in the past three weeks. Average daily
volume for petroleum futures at the New York Merc rose to
203,336 contracts during the week ended Aug. 10, up 42% from
the average level from January through July. Trading in
options contracts has also surged.
   "A lot of companies have to get burned badly at least once
to understand why they need to hedge," says Chris Swanson, a
trader for Phibro Energy Inc., a division of Salomon Inc.
that devises hedging programs for industrial oil buyers and
sellers.
   One new convert is Burlington Motor Carriers Inc., which
considered hedging its fuel purchases a few months ago but
didn't take action. When Saddam Hussein's troops stormed
Kuwait, Richard M. Rogan, Burlington's president, called
Ralph Arnold, a senior vice president, and said, "Ralph, I
really wish we'd put on that hedge." The two agreed that they
had no choice but to ask customers to pay a fuel surcharge --
and they vowed to get more serious about hedging.
   Many companies that sell petroleum also are now rushing
into the market. "A lot of producers are eager to lock in the
higher prices," says David Hammer, vice president of Phibro.
"It's mostly been independent oil companies that produce
anywhere from 1,000 barrels a day to 100,000 barrels a day,"
he says. One Texas oil and gas producer with annual sales of
more than $1 billion hedged 20% of its oil production until
the end of 1990 within two hours after the market opened on
the morning after the invasion. Said a spokeswoman: "We saw
the oil market in a panic and we thought it an overreaction."
   Some companies that hedge say that, as fuel buyers, the
wake of the price run-up may not be the best time to lock in
prices. But others say that if prices seem to be at a
plateau, they would consider hedging against further rises.
   Executives at MGM Grand Air, a luxury airline service,
were kicking themselves because they only recently decided
not to hedge fuel purchases. "If we had done it a month ago,
we'd be in great shape now," says Charles Demoney, chief
executive.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   CBS Seen Naming Rodgers
   To Head TV Stations Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CBS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- CBS Inc. is expected to announce today the
appointment of Johnathan Rodgers as president of the division
that runs the television stations the broadcasting company
owns.
   Mr. Rodgers is general manager of WBBM, the CBS-owned
station in Chicago. He would succeed Eric Ober, who was named
president of CBS News last week, succeeding David W. Burke,
who was fired.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Prior to joining WBBM in 1986, Mr. Rodgers was executive
producer of the "CBS Morning News" and of the weekend edition
of the "CBS Evening News."
   Speculation here late yesterday was that Paul Sagan, news
director of WCBS in New York, would succeed Mr. Rodgers. CBS
declined to comment on either of the executives.
   CBS owns five television stations, which have total annual
revenue exceeding $400 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   URS Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   URS
</CO>
<LP>
   URS Corp. said it began an offering to qualified
shareholders of non-transferable rights to purchase a total
of about 800,000 common shares at $4.774 a share. San
Francisco-based URS, an engineering, architectural and
planning firm, said it agreed to make the rights offering in
connection with a capital restructuring of the company that
was otherwise completed on Feb. 21. It said proceeds from the
sale will be used toward payment of certain company debts.
URS said the rights will be exercisable until Sept. 27.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Farah Inc.:
   Concern Sells U.K. Land
   To Realize Rise in Value
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   FRA
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Farah Inc., El Paso, Texas, said it sold its real estate
in the United Kingdom for about $13 million.
   The property has been the site of Farah's U.K. operation.
But, eager to reduce costs and take advantage of the
property's appreciated value, the clothing concern made plans
to move its operation elsewhere and put the property up for
sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Farah said proceeds from the sale were used to retire $4.8
million of mortgage debt as well as to repay short-term bank
debt. Farah said it realized a pretax gain on the sale of
about $9 million.
   In the six months ended April 30, Farah had a net loss of
$2 million, or 32 cents a share, on sales of $59.9 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Stolypin's Lesson for Gorbachev
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev may indeed need to
accelerate privatization in the Soviet Union. However, Paul
Klebnikov's portrayal of czarist Prime Minister Piotr
Stolypin as Russia's savior is mistaken (editorial page, July
24). Was democracy in Czar Nicholas II's Russia, as Mr.
Klebnikov postulates, a genuine goal of Stolypin, through the
means of property ownership? I do not think so.
   Stolypin believed that hereditary autocracy should yield
to limited monarchy in order to save that institution. He
grasped the political significance of factions, seeking to
enlist the support and allegiance of the Russian peasants
through land reform, i.e., release from communal land and a
program of state loans. Those incentives were designed to
create a pro-government peasantry as a counterweight to the
urban proletariat. He also encouraged emigration to Siberia
to avert perceived population pressures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   His land reforms were promulgated temporarily without the
approval of the Russian Duma. But World War I brought land
reform to a standstill and the partition of large estates
among the peasants did not take place.
   Mr. Gorbachev may salvage his power and that of his
cohorts through consumer goods and economic amelioration.
However, he is more likely to accomplish the task by
instituting authentic democratic reform and direct
participation in the political process by the Soviet masses.
   Elliott A. Cohen
   New York
   ---
   Mr. Klebnikov has ably called to our attention the
economic reforms of Stolypin that, through massive
privatization, transformed late czarist Russia into an
economic superpower. In recent years, U.S. authorities have
actively promoted privatization overseas in order to
encourage both the Third World and Eastern Europe to reenter
the international economy. So could the U.S. benefit from the
philosophy it exports.
   I would be very pleased to privatize a host of the
"essential services" and "priorities" for which my pockets
now are emptied. Included would be (a) free needles for
addicts; (b) condom programs; (c) abortion; (d) bailouts (e)
military offensive, rather than defensive, preparedness, and
(f) subsidies and entitlements for the good Lord only knows
what.
   As to the foreign-aid "hawks," instead of fleecing us for
countries most Americans can't locate on the map, I suggest
they lobby Washington to permit nations with which we have
full diplomatic relations to issue bonds in our markets free
of the current registration requirements. As a former
diplomat and longtime international financial officer, I'm
confident of the market's efficacy here.
   Louis V. Riggio
   President and Editor in Chief
   Lujack Publishing Co.
   Hollywood, Fla.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Exxon and Mobil Postpone
   Some Gasoline Advertising
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   MOB XON CBS
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Two major oil companies suspended some
gasoline advertising because of uncertainty over the Mideast
crisis.
   Mobil Corp. will indefinitely delay a nationwide fall
campaign, set to debut on television and radio next week, a
spokeswoman said. Similarly, Exxon Corp. is temporarily
halting some spot commercials largely appearing on local
stations and the CBS Inc. network, but will keep airing other
commercials on cable television. Both companies intend to
resume their ads once the Mideast tensions ease.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An Exxon spokesman said the company "made a normal
business decision to shift some . . . spot motor gasoline
television advertising to a later date." He declined to
elaborate.
   "Clearly, the Middle East is a factor in the shift," one
oil industry executive noted. "The question is: How much
value are you getting from promoting gasoline sales at this
time?"
   Both Mobil and Exxon declined to specify how much of their
1990 ad budgets will be affected by the postponements. In
1989, Mobil spent $24.8 million on advertising, and Exxon
spent $26.4 million, according to Leading National
Advertisers, an ad tracking firm.
   The oil industry is skittish about appearing to encourage
consumption of gasoline while supplies are pinched. The
industry came under a barrage of criticism earlier this month
when prices at local gas pumps soared after Iraq's invasion
of Kuwait.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Traders Push Down Gold Prices a Bit Further
   As They Decipher Signs of Less Mideast Tension
   ----
   By John Valentine
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Precious metals traders, continuing to
decipher less tension in the rhetoric-filled Middle Eastern
situation, pushed gold prices down a bit further after
Monday's plunge.
   The heavily traded December gold delivery ended with a
loss of $3.40 an ounce at $392.80, after rebounding from a
low of $386, in sympathy with a late rally in crude oil
prices. The August gold contract fell $3.30 to $385.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After opening higher at $398.50, December gold fell as low
as $386, breaking through a key support level at $390, which
helped to accelerate the decline, analysts said.
   December silver fell to a new life-of-contract low of
$4.88 an ounce before settling at $4.9550, down one cent.
October platinum eased $3.10 an ounce to $482.90.
   The Commodity Exchange increased initial margins, or good
faith money, on gold and silver futures contracts. This move,
effective with the close of trading yesterday, will make
trading more expensive and, therefore, is expected to reduce
both volume and volatility, analysts said. Traders seemed to
anticipate such consequences as yesterday's session was much
quieter than Monday's.
   The gold margin was raised by $1,100 a contract, to
$2,800, while that for silver was increased by $1,100 a
contract, to $2,100.
   Iraqi President Saddam Hussein challenged President Bush
and Prime Minister Thatcher to a TV debate. The offer was
turned down by both leaders, but traders interpreted the
Iraqi leader's action as another conciliatory gesture that
was helping to defuse the Middle Eastern crisis, analysts
said.
   "I think traders are misreading the signals being given by
Hussein," said William O'Neill, senior futures strategist for
Merrill Lynch. "His actions are nowhere as conciliatory as
most people believe. There are always implied threats in
everything he says."
   While Mr. Hussein's actions "are keeping the market
off-balance," Mr. O'Neill acknowledged, "the likelihood of
military action remains probable, while the possibility of a
diplomatic settlement is a long shot, at best."
   Craig Sloane, precious metals analyst for Smith Barney,
Harris Upham, noted that the gold price may be back down to
around where it was when the Mideast crisis began Aug. 2,
when Iraq invaded Kuwait, "but that doesn't mean a resolution
of the situation is any closer."
   However, he noted, the rebound of both gold and silver
from yesterday's lows could indicate that these commodities
may have bottomed out. "The market has been oversold," he
said.
   Alan Posnick, senior vice president, MTB Banking, New
York, said, "Everyone is watching Hussein too closely and
reacting to every little thing he does. This has created
excess volatility. We've gone from an overbought market to an
oversold one."
   Bernard Savaiko, senior metals analyst for PaineWebber,
said the gold rally has been based more on political than
economic factors; even the oil-price spurt had a strong
political element, he said.
   "It's well to remember that the market volatility is based
on anticipation," Mr. Savaiko noted. "If the gold price is
going down in the expectation of a possible solution, it's
typical of the futures market that it isn't going to wait for
the last Iraqi soldier to leave Kuwait, but will move well
ahead of that event."
   Mr. Savaiko said the $383-to-$385 level in the December
contract is an important support point. "Right now, the price
is likely to fluctuate around that level until there is a
clear indication as to whether or not there is going to be a
Middle Eastern settlement," he said.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS &amp; SOYBEANS: Prices of corn, wheat and soybean
futures contracts settled mixed in quiet trading on a lack of
new developments. With the absence of any major escalation of
hostilities in the Middle East during the trading session,
grain prices faltered for the second day. Grain prices had
been climbing earlier on speculation that the conflict in the
Middle East would boost oil prices, thus giving some
oil-producing nations additional revenues with which to buy
U.S. grain. So far, however, demand for U.S. grain exports
appears weak. At the same time, a hot spell has settled
across the Midwest at an ideal time. The dry weather is
helping to speed the maturity of the corn and soybean crops,
whose development had been slowed by the unusually wet
summer.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Futures prices declined. The December delivery was
off $83 a metric ton, to $1,280. Continued lack of
follow-through on Friday's strong rally again depressed
prices, an analyst said. Signs that the dry spell is ending
in the major West African cocoa-growing areas caused traders
to sell contracts and push down prices, the analyst said.
While there is still some concern about supplies, it isn't so
great as to have warranted Friday's price surge, according to
the analyst, who added: "It simply was overdone."
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices eased. The December contract
declined 1.45 cents a pound to $1.2340. The prospect that the
miners' strike in Peru, which was in its 12th day yesterday,
may be resolved this week was a contributing factor in the
easiness, one analyst said. Also a possible influence was an
increase of 577 tons in Commodity Exchange warehouse stocks
of copper, to 9,200 tons, as well as increases in both
producer and consumer copper inventories, the analyst said.
However, he noted, in the background were some possible
price-supporting factors, such as labor and production
problems in other mines and copper-processing facilities
around the world, such as in Zambia, Finland and the
Philippines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- National Education Corp.:
   Blum Group Boosts Holding
   In Vocational-Training Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NEC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   A group that includes Richard C. Blum Associates and BK
Capital Partners II said it boosted to 6.71% its stake in
National Education Corp., a vocational-training concern.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
the group said it holds 1,979,852 National Education shares,
including 366,531 shares purchased between June 25 and last
Wednesday for $4.42 to $4.948 each.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   National Education, based in Irvine, Calif., closed
yesterday at $4.25, up 12.5 cents, in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.
   Mr. Blum, a San Francisco investment manager and partner
in BK Capital with New York investment banker Tom Kempner,
said the group purchased the shares for investment purposes.
   A director of National Education and member of its
executive committee, Mr. Blum is also the husband of
California Democratic gubernatorial candidate Dianne
Feinstein.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Orange-co Inc.:
   Sale of Two Citrus Groves
   For $27.6 Million Completed
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   OJ SRE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Orange-co Inc., Lake Hamilton, Fla., said it completed the
sale of two citrus groves in St. Lucie County, Fla., for
$27.6 million.
   As a result, the citrus producer said it expects to be
profitable in its fourth quarter, which ends Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In April, Orange-co said it planned to sell some of its
acreage and other assets to focus on improving the
profitability of its remaining citrus operations.
   The company, 52%-owned by Stoneridge Resources Inc. in
Bloomfield Hills, Mich., said the current transaction will
generate a "significant" profit, which should translate into
fourth-quarter earnings. For its year-ago quarter, Orange-co
reported a loss of $1.2 million, or 12 cents a share, on
revenue of $43.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush's Program for Future Management
   Of Iraq Crisis Unclear, Legislators Say
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg and Rodney Ferguson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Members of Congress gave President Bush
broad support for his handling so far of the military
confrontation with Iraq, but they came away from a White
House meeting unsure of how Mr. Bush plans to manage the
crisis in the future.
   Most lawmakers who spoke to reporters after the meeting
said they were uncertain how Mr. Bush plans to force Iraq to
end its occupation of Kuwait, how long the effort will take,
what goal Mr. Bush has beyond forcing an Iraqi withdrawal,
and how much of the cost of the operation will be borne by
America's allies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As Iraq sent mixed signals about its intentions toward
Western hostages while tightening its grip on Kuwait, Mr.
Bush opened a meeting with about 150 members of Congress by
saying, "We can only succeed if all of us, executive and
legislative, Republican and Democrat, work together."
According to the lawmakers, the president heard no firm
dissent from his policy during the session, which was closed
to the public after his initial remarks.
   Instead, members of Congress scrambled to offer support
for the administration's approach to the crisis, which has
strong backing in public opinion polls. Senate Majority
Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine), declared, "The one clear
message that comes from today's meeting was that the U.S.
Congress, and I believe the American people, are united in
support of the president's actions."
   But Sen. Mitchell, reflecting uncertainties about the
future, added that continued congressional support isn't
guaranteed. Asked if Congress has issued Mr. Bush "a blank
check," he said, "Of course not. Approval of past actions
isn't blanket approval of all future actions."
   One factor that could shape congressional attitudes in the
future could be the cost of the operation. The Pentagon
yesterday doubled, to $2.5 billion, its estimate of the tab
for the U.S. military buildup in Saudi Arabia through the end
of September. It explained the increase by citing increased
fuel costs and expenses related to the reserve call-up.
   A number of members of Congress attending the meeting
asked questions about the cost, including its impact on the
economy and whether it will be shared by America's allies.
   House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt (D., Mo.), a
Democratic leader who has been a frequent critic of the
president, said, "I think there was a tremendous amount of
support for the way he {Mr. Bush} has been operating."
   Rep. Gephardt said the president told the lawmakers that
Japan and European nations soon will announce significant
financial and military aid for the stop-Iraq effort, but the
Democratic lawmaker said he doubted the aid would be enough
to constitute a fair share. He also said the Gulf deployment
means that the White House and Congress will probably be able
to achieve only about $42 billion in deficit reduction for
fiscal 1991, instead of the $50 billion they had been aiming
to save.
   Sen. Patrick Leahy (D., Vt.) said after the meeting that
he favors a "special tax" or tax surcharge specifically
earmarked to cover the costs of the Gulf campaign, putting
the effort on a "pay-as-you-go" basis.
   There wasn't any indication Mr. Bush would endorse either
the budget projection or the tax idea, lawmakers said, though
Rep. Gephardt said the president indicated he'd keep trying
to win more foreign financial support. But Mr. Bush also
warned that U.S. troops shouldn't be turned into
"mercenaries" and argued that the U.S. has its own strategic
interests in the Gulf.
   While Mr. Bush was rounding up congressional support, Iraq
continued to send conflicting signals on the fate of
foreigners it holds.
   The State Department said nine more Americans were seized
by Iraqi troops in Iraq and occupied Kuwait, bringing the
total in captivity to 70. And the department said it had been
informed by the Iraqi government that one of the Americans
being held, an unidentified man, had died of a heart attack.
   But Iraq's Saddam Hussein held another television
appearance with Western hostages, and his government said
afterward that all the foreign women and children being
detained could leave Iraq. Also, Iraqi officials said they
would expel some American diplomats in retaliation for Mr.
Bush's expulsion of Iraqi diplomats in Washington, even
though Iraq is barring other U.S. diplomats from leaving.
   On the diplomatic and military front, Iraq showed no signs
of softening its position. It declared that occupied Kuwait
was now an Iraqi province, and Saddam Hussein challenged Mr.
Bush and British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher to a
televised debate on the issue, a gambit that was labeled
"sick" by State Department spokeswoman Margaret Tutwiler.
   Meanwhile, a Defense Department spokesman said Iraq now
has massed 265,000 troops in Kuwait and nearby areas. That
compares to a U.S. estimate last week of 200,000 troops. Of
the Iraqi troops, 150,000 are deployed in Kuwait, a Pentagon
spokesman said, while the rest are positioned in an undefined
"contiguous area."
   "It's still largely a defensive thing," the Pentagon
spokesman said of the Iraqi deployment. "But obviously they
have the capability to switch to an aggressive, offensive
force very quickly."
   President Bush said the naval embargo of Iraq was holding
tight with even the Jordanian port of Aqaba now largely idle.
The U.S. Navy said it boarded a ship bound for Jordan to
check for cargo destined for Iraq. The Navy subsequently let
the ship proceed.
   Defense sources in Saudi Arabia, meanwhile, disclosed that
multinational forces are considering seeking a United Nations
resolution to impose an air blockade to halt sanctions --
busting flights to Baghdad, according to a wire-service pool
report. Such a move, which would involve all of Iraq's
neighbors, is viewed as a means of further pinching Baghdad's
economy.
   During his meeting with lawmakers, Mr. Bush explained that
he sent U.S. forces to the Gulf because "what's at stake is a
swallowing of a nation, standing by our friends, and control
of world oil reserves by a repressive regime," according to
Rep. Frank McCloskey (D., Ind.).
   After the meeting, Sen. John Chaffee (R., R.I.) said, "I
didn't hear a voice raised that was critical." Sen. James
Exon (D., Okla.), agreed, saying: "I heard no criticism."
   But the lawmakers interspersed their expressions of
support with questions that they said often failed to attract
specific answers from Mr. Bush and a bevy of administration
officials who joined him at the meeting.
   These questions focused on such matters as whether the
trade embargo alone will suffice to free Kuwait, whether
there can be a diplomatic solution, and whether military
force would be used. In addition, there were questions about
whether the U.S. should try to oust Saddam Hussein and
destroy his military assets before leaving the Gulf.
   ---
   Bob Davis contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Northern States Power Co.:
   Minnesota Denies Request
   For Electricity Rate Increase
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   NSP
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Minnesota Public Utilities Commission confirmed an
Aug. 6 ruling that denied Northern States Power Co.'s request
for a $120.8 million electricity rate increase.
   The order makes official the panel's earlier finding that
the Minneapolis utility hadn't proven its need for the
increase.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The commission said it has ordered the utility to refund
to customers the additional revenue it has been collecting
under a 6.9% interim rate increase the state PUC authorized
in January.
   The commission said it had concluded that "NSP's overall
budgeting process is seriously deficient in accuracy and
credibility. Specifically, serious problems were found in the
capital budgets and the department operating budgets."
   The commission said it had "grave doubts about the
accuracy, reliability, and predictive value" of the data
submitted by Northern States.
   A spokesman for Northern States said the company was
"disappointed" with the action and that it plans to file for
reconsideration within the next 20 days. He added that, if
the ruling stands, "we will work hard to do what's necessary
to change our budgeting and filing process to support future
rate needs."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Paramount Pictures
   Former Official Pleads
   Guilty to Tax Charge
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Paramount Pictures Corp.'s former head of
marketing pleaded guilty to a tax-evasion charge in
connection with a scheme to extort kickbacks from vendors
doing business with the Paramount Communications Inc. unit.
   Gordon Weaver, 52 years old, of Los Angeles, was an
executive at Paramount from 1982 until 1984, when the company
requested he step down after an in-house investigation of the
alleged kickback scheme. At the time of his resignation, Mr.
Weaver was president of marketing for the motion picture
division. Mr. Weaver now runs his own marketing company,
Gordon Weaver Enterprises.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In federal court in Manhattan, Mr. Weaver pleaded guilty
to filing a false federal income tax return in 1983.
   The kickbacks came from several motion-picture advertising
companies in New York, prosecutors said in the indictment of
Mr. Weaver. The kickbacks included cash, payments, gifts and
services, the U.S. charged. For instance, one vendor,
Filmland Inc. of New York, gave Mr. Weaver free use of a
summer home on Fire Island, N.Y., the indictment said.
   Mr. Weaver's attorney, Robert Fink, couldn't be reached
for comment.
   The U.S. Attorney's Office said Stephen Rose, formerly
senior vice president for marketing in the motion picture
division, pleaded guilty in June to filing a false 1983 tax
return in connection with the kickback scheme. Mr. Weaver and
Mr. Rose, of West Hempstead, N.Y., each face a maximum
sentence of three years and fines of as much as $10,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Coast Savings Financial Inc.:
   Sale of 27 Banking Offices
   In California Is Proposed
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CSA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Coast Savings Financial Inc. said in Los Angeles that it
is trying to sell 27 Southern California retail banking
offices owned by its thrift unit.
   In offering the branches for sale, Coast is seeking to
bolster its capital. "We're currently in compliance" with
federal capital rules, but "we want to be ahead of the game"
when capital requirements are increased under new thrift
rules, said Ray Martin, Coast's chief executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In recent months, a weakening real estate market in
California and some bad assets outside of the state have
taken their toll on Coast. In its second quarter, the thrift
company reported a net loss of $28.7 million, or $1.89 a
share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE EUROP J.TOH
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                        MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   State of California -- $700 million various purpose
general obligation bonds were apparently won by a Bank of
America NT &amp; SA group. The issue, which was priced to yield
from 5.90% in 1991 to 7.25% in 2010, is rated Triple-A by
both Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. and Moody's Investors Service
Inc.
   Wisconsin Public Power Inc. System -- $112.7 million power
supply system revenue bonds, Series 1990 A, due July 1,
1991-2002, 2005, 2010 and 2020, were tentatively priced by a
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. group to yield from 6% in 1991 to 7.62%
in 2020. The bonds are rated triple-A by both S&amp;P and
Moody's.
   Orange County, Fla. -- $60.4 million tourist development
tax revenue bonds, Series 1990, due Oct. 1, 1992-2002, 2006,
2012 and 2016, were tentatively priced by a PaineWebber Inc.
group to yield from 6.20% in 1992 to 7.63% in 2012. The bonds
are rated triple-A by both S&amp;P and Moody's.
                                                                                                       

                       MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $300 million of real
estate mortgage investment conduit, or Remic, mortgage
securities offered through Lehman Brothers and backed by
Freddie Mac's 9% Gold PCs. The offering, FHLMC Gold Remic
1002, is the second Freddie Mac offering collateralized with
Gold PCs. The first was a $1 billion issue backed sold
through Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. on Monday.
                                                                                                       

                        EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Toho Zinc Co. (Japan) -- $70 million of eurobonds due
Sept. 13, 1994, with equity-purchase warrants, indicating a 5
3/8% coupon at par, via Nikko Securities Ltd. Guaranteed by
Industrial Bank of Japan. Each $5,000 bond carries one
warrant, exercisable from Sept. 27, 1990 through Aug. 23,
1994, to buy shares at an expected premium of 2 1/2% to the
closing share price when terms are fixed Aug. 30. Fees 2 1/4.
   Council of Europe Resettlement Fund (Agency) -- $50
million New Zealand of eurobonds due Oct. 2, 1992, coupon 14
1/4%, issue price 102, via Hambros Bank Ltd. Fees 1 1/4.
   Credit Local (France) -- 10 billion yen of eurobonds due
Sept. 26, 1990, paying total $7.7 million Australian interest
annually, issued price 101 7/8 via Mitsui Taiyo Kobe
International Ltd. Fees 1 7/8.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Cutting Down
   Tree-Huggers
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Doug Bandow was right to criticize the concepts of
ecoterrorism currently espoused by Earth First] (editorial
page, June 20) and other irresponsible people. Such
ecoterrorism or "monkeywrenching" must be denounced by true
environmentalists, including those of us who use and produce
forest products.
   I object strenuously, however, to Mr. Bandow's description
of "government-subsidized timbering, which is both
environmentally destructive and wasteful."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I earn my living producing forest products. Much of the
timber resource is purchased from state or federal forests.
When properly managed, such renewable resources are grown and
harvested as a cyclical crop that benefits wildlife,
recreation, hunters, the atmosphere and the watershed. Using
public timber resources in this way doesn't strike me as
wasteful and, if properly managed for multiple-use
objectives, it is not subsidized.
   Readers of The Wall Street Journal, which is itself a
forest product, deserve to understand the newsprint upon
which it is printed comes from trees -- an environmentally
friendly, wholly renewable resource.
   Charles R. Pottenger
   Cloquet, Minn
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   West German Central Bank
   To Realign Policy Board
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- The Bundesbank confirmed that
it plans to reorganize its seven-member directorate, the
inner circle of policy makers responsible for running the
West German central bank's day-to-day business.
   The changes, which require directorate approval, include
shifting Bundesbank Vice President Helmut Schlesinger to head
the board's credit policy section, which is becoming
increasingly important, as German markets brace for
potentially high borrowing required to finance unification
with East Germany.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Schlesinger, 65 years old, heads the Bundesbank's
section for national economic research, but these
responsibilities are expected to be assumed by Otmar Issing,
a 54-year-old economics professor from the university in
Wuerzburg. Mr. Issing, a member of the government's Council
of Economic Advisers and a monetary policy authority, will
fill a board vacancy when Claus Koehler returns to academic
life Sept. 30.
   The economic research committee head is responsible for
monitoring the nation's economy and writing the Bundesbank's
monthly reports and all other economic research. The credit
committee oversees capital markets, money markets and other
financial markets. If the changes are approved, Mr. Issing
will be responsible for monitoring German economic and
political unification.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.:
   Consolidated Pretax Profit
   For Quarter Rose Slightly
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   MC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Japan's biggest maker
of consumer electric products, reported that its consolidated
pretax earnings for the first quarter ended June 30 edged up
1% to 125.6 billion yen ($871.7 million) from 124.6 billion
yen a year earlier.
   Net income increased 11% to 58.3 billion yen, or 26.41 yen
a share, from 52.6 billion yen, or 24.69 yen a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales climbed 13% to 1.576 trillion yen from 1.4 trillion
yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Primerica Corp.:
   A.L. Williams Unit to Cut
   250 Jobs in Restructuring
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PA
</CO>
<LP>
   Primerica Corp., New York, said that its A.L. Williams
Corp. unit will eliminate about 250 jobs as part of a
restructuring.
   Primerica said the restructuring will affect all levels of
the insurance unit. Top A.L. Williams officials have already
been affected, including William Keane, its former president
who left the company earlier this month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The majority of job losses will come from A.L. Williams
and its affiliate, Massachusetts Indemnity and Life Insurance
Co., which together employ 1,700 people. The company also
said the actions result from a review of all Primerica
subsidiaries and are expected to improve operating
efficiencies. Primerica, a diversified financial-services
concern, acquired Williams nine months ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Hewlett-Packard Co.:
   Printers' Faulty Component
   Is Being Replaced for Free
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   HWP
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hewlett-Packard Co., Palo Alto, Calif., said that the
power supply in 70,000 new computer printers is faulty and
that it will replace it for free.
   A spokesman for HP said the company will incur "virtually
no cost" through the offer. The replacement program involves
HP's LaserJet IIP, which the company introduced last
September. The IIP is HP's least expensive laser printer and
its first to sell in retail stores at prices below $1,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it learned of the problem late last year
and since February has been contacting customers with its
replacement offer.
   HP makes computers and related electronics equipment. Its
computer printer unit takes in an estimated $1.4 billion a
year, and laser printers are its high-end products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Second-Quarter Trade Gap
   Shrank to $22.58 Billion
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. merchandise trade deficit, measured
on a balance-of-payments basis, narrowed to $22.58 billion in
the second quarter, the smallest gap since the fourth quarter
of 1983, the Commerce Department reported.
   A $3.2 billion decline in petroleum imports, reflecting
falling oil prices, was the main reason for the narrowing
from a first-quarter deficit of $26.28 billion, the
department said. Imports other than oil grew $300 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A 0.5% increase in exports, to $96.74 billion, also helped
shrink the gap. Imports declined 2.6% to $119.32 billion.
   Oil prices have since risen in the wake of the Iraqi
invasion of Kuwait, and analysts expect the trade deficit to
widen in the third quarter as a result.
   The quarterly balance-of-payments measure of the
merchandise trade gap usually shows the same trends as the
more closely watched monthly report, which has also been
narrowing. The quarterly figure excludes military trade and
reflects certain adjustments for timing, insurance coverage
and valuation.
   All the numbers were adjusted for regular seasonal
fluctuations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Mario on the Ropes
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NTD NIPNY
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   There is "Trouble in Super Marioland," as Alex Kozinski
says (Leisure and Arts, July 27), but its cause is not a
"lack of effective competition." The trouble is intense
competition from new technology and new creativity.
Nintendo's system is based on a seven-year-old eight-bit
technology. What's new are 16-bit game systems and a flood of
new games for both NEC's Turbo Grafx-16 and Sega. The new
technology provides faster, more colorful, more complex
games. NEC even has a special CD-ROM reader that connects to
its game machine and provides real voices, real music and
therefore has the ability to go beyond the usual shoot and
race games. It's as if there were only action films and we
suddenly discovered drama, mysteries, musicals and comedies.
   Last year at this time there were no 16-bit games. But
this year there are. In Japan for example, in just over two
years 16-bit sales have taken more than half of the market
and Nintendo faces a tough near-term future. According to two
surveys, more than 30% of current Nintendo-owning boys in the
U.S. plan to get a new system this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I don't think it's time yet for Mario's wake, but with the
increased competition from such 16-bit systems as NEC's Turbo
Grafx-16, Mario and Luigi might be looking over their
shoulders as we enter a higher level in the video "game."
   Ken Wirt
   Vice President
   Home Entertainment
   NEC Technologies Inc.
   Wood Dale, Ill.
   ---
   With all due respect to Judge Kozinski, I believe he has
missed the point in his critique of Nintendo.
   He is correct that "the video-games aisle at the Toys `R'
Us often is deserted." But this was July, when parents
encourage their children to play outdoors. Nintendo is
overwhelmingly indoor entertainment. A check of the Nintendo
aisle on Oct. 1 will reveal a very different situation.
   If there is a "lack of effective competition" in the U.S.
video-game market, as Mr. Kozinski claims, this problem
should not be laid at the doorstep of Nintendo. There are
competitive game systems offered by Sega, Atari and NEC.
Nintendo outsells them all together by about 9 to 1.
   Absolute Entertainment, together with sister company
Imagineering Inc., is the largest U.S.-owned developer of
Nintendo video games. Since entering the Nintendo development
business in 1988, we have not had any project stopped,
questioned or rejected by Nintendo because it has not
conformed to some mysterious standards established by the
mythical "Nintendo censor." Overwhelmingly, Nintendo's
analysis of our work is in the form of technical review and
program-bug hunting.
   James Charne
   Vice President
   Legal and Business Affairs
   Absolute Entertainment Inc.
   Glen Rock, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Western Union Corp.:
   Company's Debt-Swap Offer
   Is Extended Until Sept. 7
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   WU
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Western Union Corp. extended its offer to swap new notes
and common shares for as much as a total $530 million of two
issues of notes.
   The exchange offer is an integral part of the Upper Saddle
River, N.J., company's recapitalization plan. Earlier this
month, the company's holders cleared the financial services
and communications company to convert its preferred shares
into common.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company extended the debt-swap offer to Sept. 7 from
this past Monday. As of Monday, note holders had tendered
$325.2 million, or 65%, of the 19.25% notes and $1.2 million,
or 3.8%, of the 16% notes outstanding. Western Union is
seeking at least 95% of the 19.25% notes and at least 80% of
the 16% issue.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Source Perrier S.A.:
   EC Pressure Forces Firm
   To Agree to Change Labels
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   F.PRR EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   In another blow to its reputation, Source Perrier S.A.,
Paris, bowed to European Community pressure and agreed to
stop labeling its trademark mineral water "naturally
carbonated."
   British officials had called the label misleading. When EC
officials agreed, Perrier said it would change the labels in
Europe by Nov. 1 to read "natural mineral water fortified
with gas from the spring."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The change is similar to one ordered by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration a few months ago.
   The label problem came to light when Perrier recalled its
water early this year, after U.S. health authorities found it
contained traces of benzene, a suspected carcinogen.
   Perrier explained that the benzene occurred naturally in
gas it added to the water from deep in its spring in southern
France. It said a dirty filter permitted the benzene to pass
into the water.
   U.S. and European officials said that since the gas in
Perrier isn't all there naturally, the labels should be
changed.
   Perrier officials say they still consider their water
naturally carbonated, since none of the carbon dioxide is
produced artificially. Perrier's international marketing
director Peter Thomas estimated that just under half the gas
in Perrier is added from this secondary source.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Manufactured Homes Inc.:
   Company Sets Debt Swap
   With Prudential Insurance
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   MNH
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Manufactured Homes Inc., Winston-Salem, N.C., said it
entered a conditional agreement with Prudential Insurance Co.
of America in which Manufactured Homes' debt to Prudential
would be converted into equity in the company.
   Under the agreement, a $47.4 million debt to Prudential,
Newark, N.J., and to a Prudential trust would be converted to
a 49.5% fully diluted equity interest in Manufactured Homes,
which produces and markets mobile homes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Manufactured Homes said its indebtedness to Prudential
includes a judgment brought by Prudential in federal court in
New York seeking collection of $6.4 million on a revolving
credit note. Manufactured Homes said that, if the conditions
of the agreement are met, Prudential has agreed to exchange
an outstanding warrant to buy one million shares of
Manufactured Homes common stock, and the amounts due under
the consent judgment and the revolving credit agreement, for
newly issued Class B common stock.
   Manufactured Homes said the conversion would reduce its
debt by about $47 million and eliminate annual interest
payments of about $4.7 million. Moreover, it would have a
substantial dilutive effect on the current shares
outstanding. If, however, the transaction isn't completed,
the company may not be able to pay amounts owed under the
consent judgment, the notes, the revolving credit agreement,
and other obligations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Apache Corp.:
   Firm Buys Oil Properties
   From Consolidated Natural
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   APA CNG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Apache Corp. said it agreed to buy some oil properties
from a Consolidated Natural Gas Co. unit for $23.5 million in
cash.
   Denver-based Apache said the purchase includes 41 wells in
seven fields, from which Consolidated produces an average of
1,500 barrels of oil a day. The purchase also includes about
100,000 undeveloped acres. The properties are located in
Nevada, Wyoming, North Dakota and Montana.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Apache, an oil exploration, development and production
concern, said the purchase "increases our exposure to the oil
market, complements our active drilling program and adds to
our confidence about growing our reserves again in 1990."
   The Consolidated unit, CNG Producing Co., said the sale
was in line with its plan to focus exploration activities in
the Gulf of Mexico, the Gulf Coast and the mid-continent
area. Pittsburgh-based Consolidated is a producer,
transporter and distributor of natural gas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Listen to
   Your Grandmother
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Hooray for Jewish grandmothers] How lucky Pittsburgh is to
have one in Mayor Sophie Masloff (page one, July 25). Critics
fearing she has no vision for the future need only listen to
her campaign slogan, "Grandmothers have no ambitions for
themselves, only aspirations for their children and
grandchildren." What better vision is there?
   Carol Sager
</LP>
<TEXT>
   President
   Sager Educational Enterprises
   Chicago
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Aileen Inc.:
   Profit Posted for Quarter,
   Against a Year-Earlier Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AEE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Aileen Inc., New York, reported net income of $2.1
million, or 42 cents a share, for the fiscal third quarter,
ended July 28, a rebound from a year-earlier loss of $1.3
million, or 26 cents a share.
   Sales rose 5% to $17.6 million from $16.7 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said its wholesale activities declined, but it
posted a 17% increase in retail-store sales for the quarter.
   Abe Oberlin, chairman and president of the women's apparel
retailer and manufacturer, attributed the results to an
expanded product line and to cost-cutting efforts to simplify
manufacturing operations, slash inventories and dispose of
excess plant and equipment.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Aileen shares rose 12.5 cents to $2.75.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Addington Resources Inc.:
   Kentucky Concern to Build
   $4 Million Recycling Facility
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ADDR
</CO>
<LP>
   Addington Resources Inc. said it will build a $4 million
recycling facility in eastern Kentucky, the first of a number
the company intends to build around the country.
   The facility will be capable of recycling as much as 75%
of municipal solid waste, employing an automated system to
separate wastes into reusable components, the Ashland, Ky.,
company said. It will have an initial capacity of 400 tons of
solid waste per day, but could be expanded to handle up to
1,000 tons daily, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, Addington said it offered to reduce the size
of a landfill under construction in Boyd County, Ky., near
the proposed recycling facility, and to limit the source of
garbage to a 75-mile radius of the landfill. Opening of the
landfill has been blocked by a court order, following
objections from area residents. Addington said area residents
were concerned that the landfill would accept garbage from
the East Coast.
   In addition to waste disposal, Addington mines coal and
does highway construction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Phillips-Van Heusen Corp.:
   Footwear, Shirt Sales Boost
   Income 50% for 2nd Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PVH
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Phillips-Van Heusen Corp. said fiscal second-quarter net
income rose 50%, largely on strong footwear sales.
   The New York-based apparel maker said net in the quarter
ended July 29 grew to $5.7 million, or 37 cents a share, from
$3.8 million, or 18 cents a share, in the year-earlier
period. Sales increased 15% to $191.1 million from $166.4
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lawrence S. Phillips, chairman, attributed the improvement
to gains in footwear and shirt sales, but he said the sweater
business remained "quite soft."
   He projected "significant" profit improvement in the
fourth quarter, saying he expects advertising expenses as
well as pressures on cash flow and inventory to be less
severe than they were during last year's holiday season.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Phillips-Van Heusen shares rose $1.25 to $18.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- U.S. Surgical Corp.:
   Firm Signs 2-Year Contract
   To Supply Hospital Services
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   USS
</CO>
<LP>
   U.S. Surgical Corp. signed a two-year, sole-source
contract to supply Hospital Services Corp. of America with
its full line of surgical staplers.
   Hospital Services, a Bridgeton, Mo., group-purchasing
organization for 950 acute-care hospitals, said it will buy
more than $40 million in surgical stapling and laparoscopic
products from U.S. Surgical during the term of the contract.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Surgical staples are an alternative to stitches.
Laparoscopy involves surgical viewing of the pelvic organs.
   The agreement also provides that U.S. Surgical, which is
based in Norwalk, Conn., will be Hospital Services' sole
supplier of suture products, which U.S. Surgical will
introduce by the first quarter of 1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Lufthansa AG:
   West German Carrier Posts
   Loss for First Half of 1990
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP G.LHA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lufthansa AG, midway through an expansion program, posted
a loss in the first half of 1990, reflecting rising costs and
currency shifts.
   The West German carrier, which is 51% state-owned,
reported a pretax loss for the parent airline of three
million German marks ($1.94 million) for the first six months
of 1990, compared with a pretax profit of 87 million marks in
the year-earlier period. Lufthansa said sales for the parent
airline rose 7% in the first half to 5.71 billion marks from
5.34 billion marks a year ago. Group sales, which include
Lufthansa's Condor charter service, the DLT short-haul
domestic carrier and hotel properties, rose 6.6% to 6.2
billion marks in the first half.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The pretax loss is Lufthansa's first reported loss since
1981.
   The falling dollar, weakening freight business,
write-downs on equipment, rising fuel prices and other costs
have squeezed Lufthansa's profit margins as the airline
aggressively expands ahead of the deregulation of the
European airline industry in 1993.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Justin Industries Inc.:
   Company Plans to Refinance
   The Debt of Tony Lama
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JSTN TLAM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Justin Industries Inc. of Dallas, which has launched a
tender offer for Tony Lama Co., said it intends to refinance
substantially all of Tony Lama's debt with a new $35 million
term-loan facility if the merger is completed.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Justin said it is currently discussing the loan facility with
banks. The company said the refinancing will depend on market
conditions generally and upon whether credit is available on
satisfactory terms.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Justin is offering $9 a share, or about $18 million, for
Tony Lama, plus the assumption of about $34 million in debt.
Both companies are makers of boots, although Justin also
makes building materials and industrial equipment.
   As reported, a group holding about 12% of Justin sharply
criticized the proposed Tony Lama acquisition and asked
Justin to give its shareholders the chance to vote on it.
Justin officials haven't complied.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   IBM PS/1 Home Computer
   Goes to Market Nationwide
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ARMONK N.Y. -- International Business Machines Corp.
announced nationwide availability of its new PS/1 home
computer, which it said had performed "on plan" in three test
markets.
   IBM also said it rushed into distribution a companion
printer for the computer. The new PS/1 printer, which lists
for $449 and is a variation on the firm's ProPrinter
dot-matrix technology, had originally been planned for
availability in the Christmas season. But IBM found that 80%
of its home-computer customers bought a printer at the same
time, and decided the market was too big to pass up.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In its initial three markets -- Chicago, Dallas-Fort
Worth, and Minneapolis-St. Paul -- IBM said it sold
"thousands" of PS/1s in 60 days. About three-quarters of PS/1
customers were first-time home-computer buyers, IBM said, and
80% bought the top-of-the-line model, higher than expected.
About half bought the PS/1 through IBM's new distribution
channel, department stores such as Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co.
   Anthony Santelli, who headed the IBM team that developed
the PS/1, said he expected 1990 unit sales of the computer to
be "in the hundreds of thousands." Though he was leery of
projecting 1991 unit sales, he said a figure of one million
"isn't unreasonable."
   IBM said the PS/1, which lists for $999 to $1,999 in the
U.S., will be available in Europe and Canada starting Sept.
4.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- TCBY Enterprises Inc.:
   Firm Expects to Post Fall
   In Third-Quarter Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   TBY
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   TCBY Enterprises Inc. said it expects to report that
earnings for the third quarter ending Aug. 31 fell to between
25 cents and 30 cents a share from 43 cents in the year-ago
period.
   TCBY, a Little Rock, Ark., franchiser of retail stores
that sell frozen yogurt, blamed the earnings decline on
same-store sales drops of about 15% in June and July. The
sales decline came because of increased competition, a
slowing economy and reduced franchise fee income, TCBY said.
The company said it has established new marketing and sales
programs designed to increase sales.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the six months ended May 31, TCBY had earnings of
about $12.9 million, or 48 cents a share, compared with $11.8
million, or 44 cents a share, in the year-earlier period.
Revenue rose 19% to $80.6 million from $67.8 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- USAir Group Inc.:
   Steinhardt Investor Group
   Increases Holding to 9.46%
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   U
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   An investment group that includes Steinhardt Partners
Limited Partnership, which hinted in the past that it may
consider seeking control of USAir Group Inc., said it raised
its stake in the Washington, D.C., airline company to 9.46%.
   The disclosure was made in a Securities and Exchange
Commission filing, which shows that the group, including the
Wall Street trader Michael Steinhardt, now holds 4,232,600
USAir shares, including 474,000 bought from June 26 to last
Friday for $14.07 to $25.83 a share. In New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday, USAir shares closed at
$15.875, down 37.5 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Steinhardt partnership has held a stake in USAir for
more than two years, gradually increasing its holding. Its
SEC filing said nothing about its intentions in acquiring the
additional USAir stock, but Mr. Steinhardt was said to have
believed that the stock was attractive because its price was
low. He was unavailable to comment. A USAir spokesman
declined to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Former Thrift Chairman
   Pleads Guilty to Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Michael S. Moers, former chairman and
co-owner of the now-defunct Brookside Savings &amp; Loan
Association, pleaded guilty in federal court here to four
felony counts related to criminal conduct at Brookside and
another defunct thrift.
   Brookside Savings and the other thrift, Westwood Savings &amp;
Loan Association, both in Los Angeles, were taken over by
federal regulators in 1989 and 1986, respectively. They are
among the many failed thrifts being investigated by the
Department of Justice and the Office of Thrift Supervision.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Moers, 39 years old, was recently charged by the U.S.
attorney's office in Los Angeles with selling his interests
in two properties to the thrifts and concealing his ownership
from regulators. The attorney's office said Mr. Moers also
secretly received consulting fees from Westwood Savings.
   The four charges carry a maximum sentence of 20 years in
prison and a $265,000 fine. Mr. Moers will be sentenced Dec.
10, said Steven Zipperstein, an assistant U.S. attorney who
handled the case.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Figgie International Inc.:
   Company Plans Acquisitions
   In New Zealand, Australia
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FIGIA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Figgie International Inc. said it plans to acquire
construction equipment companies in Australia and New
Zealand, but didn't disclose the terms.
   Talon International Ltd., Levin, New Zealand, produces
scissorlifts, telescoping boom work platforms and other
equipment for use in construction and maintenance. Talon
International Pty. Ltd., of Sydney, Australia, is a sales and
distribution concern that sells the products in Australia,
New Zealand and other Pacific Rim countries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Talon will operate in conjunction with Figgie's
Snorkel-Economy division, which also produces work platforms,
scissorlifts and other products.
   Figgie, of Willoughby, Ohio, is a widely diversified
company involved in fire-protection equipment, security
systems and services, electronic products, sporting goods and
industrial equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Angeion Gets Two Patents
   On Catheter to Treat Heart
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   ANGN
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Angeion Corp. said it received two patents
on a catheter it hopes to market as a cure for arrhythmia, or
irregular heartbeat.
   The catheter is designed to kill cells in the heart that
cause it to beat irregularly. The device has been tested on
dogs for more than three years. Angeion is seeking Food and
Drug Administration approval to test the catheter on human
patients.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Arrhythmia treatments include drugs, surgery and
battery-powered implants. Just as for catheters used in
angioplasty, a common treatment for hardened arteries,
Angeion's device would be inserted through the skin and
guided through a blood vessel into the heart. There, after
determination of the location of the cells causing the
arrhythmia, the catheter would be attached to the wall of the
heart and deliver a small amount of laser energy to the
problem cells. As in angioplasty, the procedure would be
performed while a patient was awake, and wouldn't require
surgery.
   Wendell King, Angeion chairman and chief executive
officer, said the potential market for the device is in the
hundreds of millions of dollars. He said the procedure would
cost $6,000 to $10,000, less than that for surgery and
implants.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- National Intergroup Inc.:
   Drug Wholesaler Extends
   Tender Offer Until Sept. 4
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NII PPA+
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   National Intergroup Inc. said it extended until Sept. 4
its tender offer for the cumulative convertible preference
units representing limited partnership interests of Permian
Partners L.P., an oil partnership controlled by National
Intergroup.
   The offer, at $3.85 plus one non-transferable contingent
value right per preference unit, was to expire at midnight
Aug. 27.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   National Intergroup, based in Pittsburgh, said that as of
Aug. 27, holders had tendered 5,535,680 preference units.
However, the number tendered fell far short of the 7,875,001
units, a majority of the publicly held units, the company had
specified as the minimum required to make the offer
effective.
   National Intergroup is primarily drug wholesaler, but it
has interests in metals, general merchandising and oil
production. The board recently agreed to consider sale of the
drug unit, FoxMeyer Corp., or the entire company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
 Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WHO'S NEWS: Karen Rosenfelt was named to the new position
of senior vice president of production for the motion picture
group of Paramount Pictures, a unit of Paramount
Communications Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Clarion Co.:
   Japanese Car Stereo Maker
   Buys McIntosh Laboratory
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   J.CLR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Clarion Co., a major Japanese car stereo maker, said its
U.S. subsidiary bought McIntosh Laboratory Inc., an audio
equipment maker in Binghamton, N.Y.
   As previously reported, the cost of the acquisition was
$30 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Japanese company said the acquisition would strengthen
Clarion's car stereo technology by introducing McIntosh
Laboratory's long-established, advanced technology. The
action also enables Clarion to enter the car audio business
by taking advantage of the McIntosh brand name.
   Clarion Shoji Co. (U.S.A.) will maintain McIntosh
Laboratory's current management staff and 246 employees after
the takeover.
   McIntosh Laboratory is a top U.S. audio equipment maker
established in 1946, well-known for its power amplifier,
preamplifier and speaker systems. Its product line includes
tuners, compact disc players, receivers and remote control
units.
   McIntosh had sales of $16.8 million in 1989, with pretax
profit of $2.6 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- In-Store Advertising Inc.:
   Stock Falls as Firm Lowers
   2nd-Half Revenue Estimates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ISAN
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   In-Store Advertising Inc.'s stock plunged yesterday after
the company announced that second-half revenue would be
substantially lower than analysts had expected.
   In-Store dropped $7.50 a share to $7.25 in heavy national
over-the-counter trading yesterday. The company, which
delivers ad messages to shoppers through a network of
in-store electronic signs, went public on July 19, issuing
two million shares at $19 apiece. Yesterday, 1.36 million
shares were traded, nearly five times the normal volume.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After the market closed, the company expressed surprise at
investors' reaction to the announcement and maintained that
the outlook for growth was still fundamentally strong.
   Analysts, who had been expecting the company to post $29
million in revenue for the year, were surprised by a news
release that painted a bleaker picture for the second half.
The company, citing a lackluster advertising market, said it
expects a slowdown in advertisers' commitments in 1990's
second half.
   Yesterday, In-Store reported that its first-half net loss
narrowed to $356,511, or six cents a share, from nearly $2.3
million, or 35 cents a share, in the year-earlier period.
First-half revenue leaped to $10.4 million from $1.6 million.
   The company's second-quarter net loss narrowed to
$449,099, or seven cents a share, from $1.3 million, or 20
cents a share. Revenue jumped to $5.3 million from $994,051.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   War Powers Resolution Hasn't Saved Saddam Hussein -- Yet
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   Now that President Bush has dispatched tens of thousands
of soldiers to the Middle East, we should be able to declare
victory on at least one front. There's hardly a peep from
voices that had insisted since Vietnam that Congress and only
Congress has the power to risk war. Mr. Bush has reclaimed
the commander-in-chief powers for the presidency.
   Indeed, Saddam Hussein's only virtue is that the War
Powers Resolution seems to have been his first victim. This
1973 law, viewed as unconstitutional by every president
since, says that presidents can send troops into "imminent
hostilities" only if Congress declares war, passes a law
allowing the deployment or if there's an attack on U.S.
territory or armed forces.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yet Mr. Bush accomplished a huge call-up while Congress
was out of town. Texas Democrat Henry Gonzalez got no takers
last week when he begged Congress to rush back from recess
"to preserve the integrity of its own powers in passing the
War Powers Resolution." Rep. Gonzalez asked in a letter to
House Speaker Thomas Foley, "Do we have a president? a
Caesar? a monarch? a potentate?" At the risk of giving
someone any ideas, there's one sure tactic for a congressman
who wants to save the War Powers Resolution, to wit: Sic an
independent counsel to prosecute Mr. Bush and his aides for
violating it.
   You don't have to agree that the constitutional imbalance
of power has recently been at the expense of presidents to be
glad that the debate now is about military and not legal
strategy. The overhanging danger in separation-of-powers
battles is that supposed legalities can quickly cloud debate
over the substance of policy -- remember Iran-Contra. As time
passes and different risks arise, though, Mr. Bush will have
to decide which tack to take with Congress. He can continue
to act alone, he can ask for a declaration of war or he can
do something in between.
   Mr. Bush knows that if things get messy in the Middle
East, some congressman is bound to invoke legal constraints.
This is why he sent Congress a letter earlier this month "in
accordance with my desire that Congress be fully informed and
consistent with the War Powers Resolution." This described
the deployment of forces, noting that "I do not believe
involvement in hostilities is imminent."
   This is just-in-case boilerplate so that if someone tries
to invoke the resolution, Mr. Bush can at least argue that
the 60-day clock hasn't started ticking yet. This language is
important because the resolution says that 60 days after
"imminent hostilities," Congress must vote to approve any
deployment or the president must bring the troops home 30
days after that.
   Washington lawyer Abraham Sofaer knows all about the
fetters of excessive legalisms on presidents. He is the
former federal judge who did separation-of-powers hazard duty
as legal adviser in the State Department from 1985 until this
past June. "Those people who say presidents don't have the
power to act have been wrong ever since Alexander Hamilton
and James Madison agreed that President Washington had the
power without Congress to declare neutrality in violation of
a treaty with France, risking war," he said this week. "Those
people are still wrong."
   If he were still in the business of giving legal advice to
presidents, Mr. Sofaer said he'd tell Mr. Bush that "it would
be a catastrophe if he asked Congress for authority to do
what he's done. Instead, he needs to say he doesn't need the
authority." The Founders intended that presidents would act
alone. They gave Congress the power formally to "declare"
war, but empowered the president when necessary to respond to
aggression by making war.
   Mr. Bush has a long list of precedents for his actions. As
of 1970, the last time official figures were collected,
presidents had sent troops or arms abroad 199 times where
Congress hadn't declared war, which has happened only five
times. Congress had consented in only 62 of the incidents, by
appropriating specific funds, passing resolutions or
ratifying treaties that gave the president authority to act.
In the remaining 137 instances -- that is, two-thirds of the
time -- presidents acted entirely without authorization by
Congress. The ratio would be even higher counting the Reagan
presidency's unilateral actions, such as in Grenada and
Libya.
   Mr. Sofaer's point about unilateral presidential power
aside, there's a good argument that Mr. Bush should recruit
some kind of formal support from Congress. The Gulf of Tonkin
resolution did not stop Congress from tiring of Vietnam. But
when Congress shares some accountability, it at least helps
keep the debate on the merits of the policy and away from
whether the policy is somehow "illegal."
   Law aside, politics will force Mr. Bush to give Congress a
clearer explanation of his intentions. Does he want Saddam
only out of Kuwait or also out of Iraq? Will he be satisfied
if Iraq retains chemical weapons? Does he think the fate of
our hostages could justify military action?
   "We want either Perdicaris alive or Raisuli dead," Teddy
Roosevelt announced in 1904 when he sent warships to Morocco
to force a bandit chieftain to release a kidnapped
Greek-American, Ion Perdicaris. Mr. Bush has not yet said,
"We want either Ambassador Nathaniel Howell alive or Saddam
dead." If he does, he can cite the little-known Hostage Act
of 1868, by which Congress actually required the president to
use force if necessary to free Americans held by foreign
governments.
   Building a political consensus with Congress is only part
of the battle. Mr. Sofaer also worries about international
law, especially now that the United Nations has gotten so
involved. "The test is not, are we going to convince the U.N.
finally to do the right thing," Mr. Sofaer said. "The test
is, are we going to win?"
   He noted that the U.N. Charter allows countries to use
collective self-defense, which "gives us plenty of legal
authority to do what we want to restore the sovereignty of
Kuwait." But there is a problem. The charter seems only to
allow collective self-defense until the U.N. itself takes
action. The U.N. has now passed a resolution, though only to
allow possibly weak implementation of a blockade of Iraq.
   "The resolution subjects military actions to the review of
the Security Council, almost as though we had to check with
the U.N. before using force," Mr. Sofaer said. "By
implication, the U.N. has adopted the means that we cannot go
beyond. We must say, no, we will use necessary and
proportionate force." Unlike Congress, there's little the
U.N. can do to stop Mr. Bush.
   As always, a president has more to worry about than a
Saddam Hussein. A report on the American system was neatly
summed up in a recent London Daily Telegraph headline, "Bush
Stands Tall -- But for How Long?" above a report warning that
"Congress has two months before it will vote on extending the
president's war powers." Now that Mr. Bush has managed to
unite the world against Saddam, he might even be up to the
task of getting and keeping Congress on board.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Philadelphia Delays Sale
   Of $400 Million of Notes
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES U
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- The city of Philadelphia delayed its
proposed private sale of $400 million in short-term notes for
two more weeks.
   Without such a debt offering or an adjustment to spending
plans, city officials say Philadelphia could run out of money
by the end of November.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The note sale, which is already five weeks late, is now
expected to take place in mid-September.
   Adding to Philadelphia's cash uncertainty, city controller
Jonathan A. Saidel said earlier this week he would refuse to
sign documents authorizing the loan. Although Mr. Saidel
can't block such a sale single-handedly by withholding his
signature, investors may be less willing to purchase the
notes because of his reluctance. He said he wants to cut the
size of the loan request and find a permanent solution to the
problem.
   Meanwhile, USAir, which operates a major hub at the city's
airport, wrote to city officials objecting to a provision of
the loan documents that would allow the city to dip into
funds intended for improvements to Philadelphia International
Airport. The city's Aviation Capital fund is financing a
major expansion at the airport, including a domestic terminal
to be leased by USAir.
   Last week, Mayor Wilson Goode said he will seek an
emergency tax increase of $150 million and ask the state for
additional aid. Philadelphia expects to post a deficit of
$206 million for the year ending June 30.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUSH BRIEFED Congress, and Iraq said captive women and
children could leave.
   While lawmakers offered their support at the White House
meeting, they said they were concerned about the effects of
the Gulf mobilization on the U.S. economy and uncertain how
the president intends to proceed. The Pentagon doubled its
cost estimate for the buildup in Saudi Arabia, and Saudi
officials said they want to buy $9 billion of U.S. arms.
Baghdad, despite its statement concerning the hostages,
declared Kuwait to be an Iraqi province. Saddam Hussein said
he was willing to talk to Bush and Britain's Thatcher via
television, but the U.S. wasn't receptive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An Air Force C-5A transport, part of the U.S. military
buildup in the Gulf, crashed on takeoff at Ramstein Air Base
in West Germany, killing at least 10 of 17 people aboard, the
Pentagon said.
   ---
   Five Security Council members urged warring factions in
Cambodia to accept a peace plan that includes a major role
for the U.N. during a transition leading to free elections. A
U.S. official said the operation could cost the U.N. $3
billion to $5 billion over two years and involve up to 10,000
peacekeeping troops and 10,000 civilian personnel.
   Sen. Richard Lugar said he was told by Vietnamese
officials that they have removed all their troops from
Cambodia and will support elections there. The Indiana
Republican visited Hanoi this month and met with Vietnam's
foreign minister.
   ---
   President de Klerk told South African church leaders he
would investigate black leaders' charges that police sided
against supporters of the African National Congress in recent
township violence. Earlier, police arrested -- and released
on bail -- the head of the Cosatu labor federation on
kidnapping and assault charges, which he denied.
   ---
   Leftist demonstrators hurled tomatoes and eggs at West
Germany's Kohl at a rally in East Germany, and security
guards used umbrellas to protect the chancellor. The 100
protesters whistled and shouted complaints about the high
cost of German unity as Kohl tried to address a crowd of
5,000 in Halle. The two Germanys are to merge Oct. 3.
   ---
   Gorbachev named a Soviet magazine editor as his personal
assistant and chief spokesman. Vitaly Ignatenko, whose
weekly, New Times, has helped to forge the Kremlin leader's
policy of glasnost, or openness, is slated to give his first
news briefing today. He is expected to play a larger role in
policy-making than his predecessor.
   ---
   President Aquino accused right-wing army rebels in the
Philippines of waging a psychological terror campaign, saying
their demands for her resignation were an insult to
democracy. Meanwhile, the 17th bomb in just over two weeks
exploded in Manila, causing no injuries, as security was
tightened at key buildings in the capital.
   ---
   Tornadoes ripped through several northern Illinois towns,
killing at least nineteen people and destroying an apartment
complex, a high school and at least 50 homes. Downed power
lines were reported throughout the area, centered 40 miles
southwest of Chicago, and many roads were blocked by toppled
trees and damaged vehicles.
   ---
   The Labor Department is expected to begin inspecting large
petrochemical plants this week as part of an effort to
prevent catastrophic chemical-plant explosions. The OSHA
program will affect petrochemical companies with more than
2,500 workers.
   ---
   The Earth is heating up faster than previously documented
and nations must agree to reduce the gases responsible for
global warming, said scientists at a conference that opened
in Sweden. The four-day meeting on climate change is expected
to adopt a report that would be a basis for U.N. action on
fighting the "greenhouse effect."
   ---
   NASA said Magellan's mission to map the surface of Venus
is being delayed again so that engineers can study why they
keep losing contact with the spacecraft. Officials said they
now hope to start the mapping project the last week of
September, instead of the mid-September date announced
Friday. Magellan was launched in May 1989.
   ---
   Two Liberian rebels surrendered to an African task force
and said hundreds more want to give up but fear reprisals
from guerrilla leader Charles Taylor, the Ghana News Agency
said. Both President Doe and another insurgent leader, Prince
Johnson, have welcomed the task force's efforts to end
Liberia's eight-month civil war.
   ---
   Romanian authorities outlawed demonstrations in central
Bucharest following six days of anti-government unrest, but
protesters defied the order. About 100 people gathered in
University Square to denounce President Iliescu, but traffic
continued to move freely in the downtown area and there was
no massive police response.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gasoline Prices
   Aren't Expected
   To Fall Soon
   ---
   Companies Say the Market
   Hasn't Yet Kept Pace
   With Crude Oil's Rise
   ----
   By David D. Medina and Carolyn Phillips
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MOB RD SC AN CHV XON DD P ARC
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Despite Monday's $4 a barrel plunge in crude-oil futures
prices, motorists looking to pay less at the pump will likely
be disappointed.
   While a few oil companies -- Conoco Inc. and Phillips
Petroleum Co., for instance -- lowered wholesale prices
slightly after the sharp drop, most major oil companies said
they would maintain current prices. Exxon Corp. actually
raised its wholesale prices by six-tenths of a cent.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The industry has defended its wholesale pricing, saying
the run-up in gasoline prices never kept pace with the
meteoric 50% jump in crude prices over the past four weeks.
Most oil companies say they are still trying to recoup their
costs. Unleaded gasoline prices at the pump are about 18%
higher since Iraq invaded Kuwait Aug. 2, according to the
American Automobile Association.
   William C. Wood, associate professor of economics at James
Madison University in Harrisonburg, Va., and a specialist in
natural resources and energy, said that had the price of
crude oil dropped by $4 before the Middle East crisis,
wholesale gasoline prices would have dropped, too.
   "A substantial fraction of the price reflects
uncertainty," he said. "It's not just how much (oil
companies) have to pay. It's more how can (they protect their
inventories) in the event that something unusual happens."
   The oil industry has been under attack from consumers,
politicians and government officials for raising gasoline
prices so quickly and so steeply following the start of the
Middle East crisis. Early on in the crisis, President Bush
asked major oil companies to hold the line on prices. The
Justice Department has since begun preliminary inquiries into
the sharp rise in gasoline prices.
   Conoco was first to react to the $4 a barrel drop in the
price of the October crude-oil futures contract in Monday
trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The Houston
company lowered prices on its branded wholesale gasoline by
two cents to five cents a gallon. It lopped an average of
10.65 cents a gallon off its unbranded wholesale gasoline.
   "We try to stay as close to the market as we can," a
spokesman said. Conoco is a unit of Du Pont Co., Wilmington,
Del.
   The futures prices took a nosedive Monday as tensions in
the Middle East seemed to ease. There were indications that
the U.S. might be backing away from possible military action
and was more inclined toward negotiating a resolution to the
crisis. Yesterday, however, the October crude-oil contract
regained 97 cents a barrel to close at $27.88.
   A spokesman for Phillips said the Bartlesville,
Okla.-based oil company was also responding to the market
when it cut wholesale gasoline prices by 5.27 cents a gallon
to 93.91 cents.
   Gasoline price changes happen all along the supply chain,
from refiners to wholesalers to corner stations, but are tied
very closely to futures prices, which seesaw back and forth
with every news report -- or rumor. The volatility of the
markets, where traders are focusing on the Middle East
situation and on a gathering of ministers from the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in Vienna, has
made it tough for some oil companies to say what they'll do.
   "It's very hard to project what we will do with prices,"
said a spokesman for Atlantic Richfield Co. in Los Angeles.
"Our prices are substantially below the market (levels) and
in some instances our prices at the pump may not accurately
reflect the price of crude oil." Arco froze its wholesale
prices for a time following the invasion, but has since
raised them an average of 2.5 cents a gallon.
   Exxon raised its prices by six-tenths of a cent to 87.1
cents a gallon. A spokesman said, "Exxon's prices reflect its
assessment of competitive market conditions." He wouldn't
elaborate.
   San Francisco-based Chevron Corp. said it will maintain
its prices because it hasn't recovered the cost of higher
crude-oil prices. "We haven't passed on to the consumer our
full amount of the raw price," a spokesman said. Amoco Corp.
in Chicago and Mobil Corp. in New York will both hold tight
despite the drop. "In some areas, we are selling at cost," a
Mobil spokesman said.
   In Houston, a Shell Oil Co. spokesman said the Royal
Dutch/Shell Group unit "will be responding along with the
competition."
   Because so many of the major oil companies are maintaining
wholesale prices, experts expect retail prices to remain
about the same. "I wouldn't expect much change," said Mike
Doyle, an editor at Computer Petroleum Corp., a petroleum
price information service in St. Paul, Minn. The company
conducts weekly surveys on gasoline prices for the American
Automobile Association.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE UAW NAMED General Motors as its target company for
negotiating a pattern-setting national labor contract to
replace a three-year accord that expires Sept. 14. A union
priority in the talks is job security, while the Big Three
auto makers want more management flexibility.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most oil companies plan to maintain current prices for
gasoline, despite Monday's plunge in the crude-oil market.
Meanwhile, OPEC ministers delayed, probably until today,
announcing their endorsement of increased output by some
members.
   ---
   S&amp;L bailout officials can override state banking laws to
sell insolvent thrifts and their branches to banks, a federal
appeals court ruled. Thirteen states restrict such
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   State-chartered thrifts must continue contributing to the
S&amp;L bailout's cost, the FDIC effectively ruled.
   ---
   Bonds fell and stocks were mixed in light trading in both
markets. The Dow Jones industrials gained 3.22 points, but
other stock indexes declined. Long-term Treasurys lost half a
point. The dollar was mixed. Tokyo stocks rose for the third
straight day.
   ---
   Retailers are trimming their plans for Christmas to avoid
getting stuck with merchandise if consumers pull back. Many
stores are ordering late, and some are canceling orders.
   ---
   Alternative energy investments would get a tax credit
under one of a number of proposals being considered at the
White House to reduce the nation's dependence on imported
oil.
   ---
   R.R. Donnelly won court clearance for its $487.5 million
acquisition of printing venture Meredith/Burda, despite the
FTC's antitrust objections.
   ---
   Two Merrill Lynch executives who led the firm's push into
junk bonds quit. The moves follow shake-ups at other Wall
Street junk departments.
   ---
   Next Inc. plans to introduce a series of products next
month, in its latest attempt to become a major player in the
computer market.
                                                                                                       

   Former Guinness PLC Chairman Ernest Saunders was sentenced
to five years in prison, one day after his stock-manipulation
conviction.
   ---
   A soybean futures trader pleaded guilty to fraud and
racketeering. His surprise plea strengthens the government's
case against 12 other traders who are to go on trial next
month.
   ---
   A plan to resolve asbestos cases nationwide appears to be
unraveling amid questions about the jurisdiction of judges
overseeing the cases.
   ---
   AmeriTrust named a director, Craig R. Smith, to be interim
chairman and chief executive while the banking concern
restructures itself.
   ---
   The tanker industry faces higher costs and sharply lower
revenue because of the Mideast crisis.
   ---
   Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking posted an unexpected 21%
decline in first-half profit and said it expects difficulties
to continue in this half.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 127,650,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2614.85, up 3.22; transportation 899.82, off 8.21; utilities
193.60, off 0.82.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Brothers Treasury index 3313.96,
off 12.31.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.37, off 0.79;
spot index 131.49, off 0.74.
   Dollar: 143.73 yen, off 0.52; 1.5563 marks, up 0.0053.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bonds Fall on Absence of Strong Buyer Interest
   And Rumors of Higher Japanese Interest Rates
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FRE SNT CUE SFX FNM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In a reversal of Monday's strong rally, bonds
slid lower yesterday as potential buyers essentially
vanished.
   The benchmark 30-year bond, after surging more than 1 1/2
points on Monday, fell 1/2 point yesterday. The decline
translates into a loss of $5 for a bond with a $1,000 face
amount. The yield on the benchmark bond rose to 9.04% from
8.99% on Monday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But in a trend that reflects typically lackadaisical
summer trading, activity moved at a torpid pace with few
retail investors participating.
   "It was a slow, quiet, boring day," said Steven Ricchuito,
chief economist at Barclays De Zoete Wedd Securities Inc.
With few investors bidding for bonds, dealers were forced to
mark prices lower.
   Mr. Ricchuito said the bond market started off the trading
session in a now-familiar pattern: moving in the inverse
direction of oil prices. But later, even when some oil prices
fell, bonds failed to recover.
   Petroleum prices ended mixed, with futures prices for
October crude at $27.88 a barrel, up 97 cents from Monday.
But November crude finished at $27.40, down 66 cents.
   Bond prices also were pressured by rumors that the Bank of
Japan soon will raise the official discount rate. News
services in Tokyo reported that Japan's central bank is
considering raising the rate, which it charges members banks
for loans, by about 3/4 percentage point to 6%.
   When interest rates rise in other countries, the value of
the dollar often falls. And a softer dollar, in turn, reduces
the value of securities denominated in dollars.
   Not even the results of the Treasury's two-year note
auction managed to spark any excitement in the bond market.
   The Treasury sold $11.56 billion of two-year notes at an
average yield of 8.19%. The yield was up from 8.07% at the
previous two-year note auction on July 25.
   In when-issued trading activity, the new two-year notes
ended at a yield of 8.21%, a sign that dealers were forced to
cut prices slightly in an effort to drum up demand.
   "It was a ho-hum auction," said Samuel Kahan, chief
economist at Fuji Securities Inc. He said the auction yield
came in where market participants had expected while the
auction technical indicators, such as the number of bids
received, were about average. Noncompetitive tenders, which
are placed mainly from individual investors, totaled $1.37
billion, a little below the recent average of $1.5 billion.
   Today, the Treasury will sell $8.5 billion of five-year
notes. In when-issued trading, the notes were quoted late
yesterday to yield 8.615%.
   Two economic reports are due out today, although analysts
say the reports won't have much impact on the bond market
unless the results are significantly different from market
estimates.
   The July leading indicators index will be released at 8:30
a.m. EDT. A Dow Jones Capital Markets Report consensus of
economists expects the index to have declined 0.2% in the
month.
   At 10 a.m., July new home sales data will be released. A
separate Dow Jones poll found that economists look for sales
to have declined 1.4% to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of
573,000.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasurys were moderately lower yesterday in quiet
trading.
   The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 96 30/32 to
yield 9.04% compared with Monday's price of 97 13/32 to yield
8.99%. The latest 10-year notes ended at a price of 98 26/32
to yield 8.91% compared with 99 4/32 to yield 8.86%.
   Short-term rates were little changed. The discount rate on
three-month Treasury bills ended unchanged at 7.49% for a
bond-equivalent yield of 7.72%. The rate on six-month bills
ended slightly lower at 7.47% for a bond-equivalent yield of
7.85%.
   Here are details of yesterday's two-year note auction:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it.
                                                                                                       

                     Two-Year Notes
                                                                                                       

  Applications ..................     $28,547,955,000
  Accepted bids .................     $11,557,490,000
  Accepted at low price .........                 56%
  Accepted noncompetitively .....      $1,372,000,000
  Average price (Rate) ..........      99.882 (8.19%)
  High price (Rate) .............      99.900 (8.18%)

  Interest rate .................              8 1/8%
                                                                                                       

   The notes are dated Aug. 31, 1990, and mature Aug. 31,
1992.
                                                                                                       

   Junk, Corporate Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Junk bonds meandered aimlessly, ending the day mixed in
quiet, uneventful trading.
   Among the key gainers were junk bonds of Santa Fe Pacific
Corp., which rose on news that the railroad, real estate and
natural-resources concern has amended an earlier
debt-for-equity exchange offer.
   Santa Fe Pacific's 16% pay-in-kind senior subordinated
debentures rose 1 1/2 points to finish at 103 5/8 on the New
York Stock Exchange. Pay-in-kind bonds pay interest in the
form of additional securities. The company, which last month
announced a refinancing plan for its $780 million issue of
its pay-in-kind debentures, lowered to $15 a share the
minimum exchange value of its common stock in the exchange
offer.
   The junk bonds of Quantum Chemical Corp. came under
pressure after Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. downgraded the
chemical company's senior debt to single-B-plus from
double-B-minus.
   The credit rating agency said the moves reflects
"Quantum's vulnerability as a highly leveraged firm to what
is now likely to be a deeper and more protracted downturn in
the commodity chemical cycle."
   Quantum's 13% senior subordinated debentures ended at a
bid price of 70, down 1 point. The debentures had been
trading as high as 93 in mid-June.
   In the investment-grade corporate debt market, high-grade
bonds ended between 1/4 to 3/8 point lower. Among new issues,
Sonat Inc., an energy-resources holding company, offered $575
face amount of zero-coupon convertible subordinated notes.
The 15-year notes, underwritten by Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets under the trademark Liquid Yield Option Notes, were
priced at $343.47 per $1,000 bond to yield 7.25%.
   The securities are convertible into common stock at $59.51
a share, representing a 13.2% conversion premium over
Tuesday's closing price.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Securities
                                                                                                       

   A warm reception for California's $700 million various
purpose general obligation bonds was evidence of a relatively
friendly mood in the municipal bond market.
   The bonds were won by a group led by Bank of America
National Trust &amp; Savings Association, and priced to yield
from 5.90% in 1991 to 7.25% in 2010. No unsold bonds remained
in late trading.
   In secondary dealings, actively traded issues ended
narrowly mixed in lively trading, with some issues off as
much as 1/4 point and others up as much as 1/4.
   Some traders attribute the municipal market's relatively
firm tone to the scarcity of supply.
   The New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20% securities of
2018 ended 1/8 lower at 97 with the yield at 7.44%, the same
level at Monday's close.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-, Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities ended with modest losses.
   Among actively traded secondary issues, Government
National Mortgage Association 9.5% issues for September
delivery were off 1/8 at 98, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.
9.5% issues were down 5/ 32 at 97 19/32 and Federal National
Mortgage Association 9.5% securities were off 5/32 at 98 1/8.
   Primary market activity was quite subdued compared with
recent sessions.
   A $300 million Freddie Mac real estate mortgage investment
conduit was the sole new offering in the session.
   More than $3 billion of new Remic securities were
announced publicly on Monday, including three Fannie Mae
offerings priced late last week.
   Yesterday's issue, FHLMC Gold Remic 1002, is the second
Freddie Mac offering ever collateralized with Gold PCs.
   Freddie Mac introduced Gold PC-backed Remics on Monday, in
a $1 billion offer collateralized with 9.5% Gold PCs through
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
   Gold PCs, or participation certificates, were introduced
in June by Freddie Mac. They are securities that offer a
reduced payment delay between the time homeowners make their
monthly payments and the time investors get their payments
from Freddie Mac.
   The payment delay is 45 days on Gold PCs, down from 75
days on original PCs and the fastest payment to investors of
any agency-issued conventional mortgage. By October, all new
PC's issued by Freddie Mac will be Gold PCs.
   The latest Freddie Mac REMICS are being backed by 9% Gold
PCs and underwritten by Lehman Brothers.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Foreign government bonds ended mixed yesterday.
   In Tokyo, Japanese government bonds ended slightly
stronger. Dealers said the market rebounded early in the
session on the rise in the value of the yen, but lost most of
those gains on news that an American hostage died in Iraq.
   At the 3 p.m. JST close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the
yield on the benchmark No. 119 10-year bond was 82.73, up
0.09 points, to yield 8.18%. (When calculated using the
semi-annual compound method, the yield for the No. 199 closed
at 7.50%, according to Salomon Brothers Inc.)
   In West Germany, bond prices were nearly 1/4 point lower
as an early rally sputtered on the lack of follow-through
buying. British government bonds, called gilts, ended higher.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Goals in the Gulf
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   A strange half-calm has settled over the politics of the
large U.S. intervention in the Persian Gulf. The Bush policy
is beginning to have the feel of something vulnerable.
Congress hasn't yet returned to its roost, but the sky is
dotted with the sort of circling opinion that appears
whenever the political establishment senses a President's
policy might stumble. Even among the President's supporters,
various doubts and questions are starting to materialize.
   The most prominent, centering around what might be called
the Kissinger-Haig school, is that Mr. Bush needs to initiate
a pre-emptive strike against Iraq now, before the American
people wimp out. We would support such a strike, but the
idea's underlying premise bothers us: Underestimating the
American people was precisely what was wrong with
Nixon-Administration foreign policy. The American people will
support what makes sense. Somehow in modern, media-obsessed
Washington, this basic truth gets lost when Administration
officials start sweating over whether they're playing well on
the evening news shows.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the crucial area of public support, Mr. Bush continues
to hold a strong hand, and not merely because the latest
opinion polls are showing good numbers. We in fact have
something else in this country on which to base mandates for
presidential policies. They're called presidential elections.
As for many of the others doubting what the American people
will support, we wonder whether they voted with the majority
in the Reagan-Bush landslides. The fact remains that support
for Vietnam and Korea eroded not because of casualties, but
because of uncertain purposes. Again, with no superpower
backing Saddam, that becomes the case with Iraq only if the
Administration makes it so.
   So far Mr. Bush is doing well without bloodshed; the
crucial test is what the end game will be. In terms of
lessons for the future, what justifies the efforts we have
undertaken?
   Mr. Bush said forcefully several times Monday that he
wants Iraq out of Kuwait. That's fine, but is merely getting
Saddam to trundle back across the border really what this
whole thing is about? Earlier, in announcing that U.S. troops
were going to the Gulf, the policy goal was "defensive" -- to
protect the Saudi oil fields. Then in a speech Mr. Bush
talked about world order. All worthy goals, but they've been
dribbled out separately, almost depending in recent days on
what questions float up from the press pool in Kennebunkport.
   Perhaps the question of public goals becomes clearer if we
set the range of alternatives against each other. If the goal
is that Saddam backs down but keeps his military machine,
that is simply not enough. If Saddam stays in office, is
killed in six months and the Baath Party and its military
machine stay in place, that's at best a gentleman's C. If
Saddam is overthrown, his successors are willing to negotiate
arms reduction and we keep a base in Kuwait and cooperate in
a democratic evolution there, that's a solid A-minus. If we
take Baghdad and install a MacArthur regency, that is the
optimum.
   At the moment, the Bush Administration seems satisfied to
say that its policy is Iraq's departure from Kuwait. Again,
this quite modest goal isn't likely to sustain a political
consensus for long and will breed uncertainty among the
public. Saddam-out-of-Kuwait is an end point that is very
vulnerable to substantive criticism.
   Both the policy elites and the general public are
well-informed by now as to what the current Iraqi regime is
about -- aggressive expansionism backed up by a massive
military structure, a history of using chemical weapons, and
a serious effort to build nuclear and biological weapons. The
public also knows that Iran endured hundreds of thousands of
dead to merely keep Saddam on his side of the border. Now he
is in Kuwait. His grand announcement that he will let foreign
women and children leave Iraq, while presumably retaining his
male "guests," is only the latest demonstration of his
cynicism.
   This presidency is demonstrably skilled at working the
political equation, meeting yesterday with 150 Members of
Congress to discuss the situation in the Gulf. But the moment
doubts pervade the American public, Mr. Bush will be several
yards out onto the same thin ice occupied by some of his
predecessors. The Gulf intervention is important. The
public's support will weather the more difficult days to come
if it is told clearly and directly what our goals are.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   They Forget That It's the Pirates
   Sitting in First Place Right Now
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Give fresh bait to a school of sharks and
you get a feeding frenzy. Dangle football tickets in front of
Pittsburgh Steelers fans and you get a bidding war.
   That's what happened here yesterday, when the trustee of a
company in bankruptcy proceedings auctioned 14 Pittsburgh
Steelers season tickets. About 90 desperate fans -- some
dressed in gray pin-striped suits, others in paint-flecked
work pants -- flocked to federal bankruptcy court to place
their bids on these coveted assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When the dust settled, the winners had shelled out $21,300
-- a tidy sum, considering the face value of the tickets
totaled $2,736. No one reached deeper into his pocket than
Donald Cooper, a hair salon owner who dropped $6,100 for four
seats.
   "I don't even know how to spell $6,100," the 35-year-old
Mr. Cooper said as he prepared to write the check for his
tickets. "I kind of got swept away, but it's an emotional
thing."
   Mr. Cooper didn't seem concerned that the Steelers have
played poorly in preseason games. When handed the tickets, he
fingered them like precious jewels. "I have them," he
murmured. "I have them."
   The trustee, Joseph J. Bernstein, said the tickets were
worth the high prices because holders will be able to renew
their seats for future seasons. But the Steelers showed up in
court and objected.
   William H. Schorling, a lawyer for the team, said the
Steelers don't give season-ticket holders automatic renewal
rights, and plan not to renew the seats bought yesterday for
the 1991 season. "We have thousands of people who've been
waiting 10, 11 years for season tickets," Mr. Schorling
explained.
   Moreover, he said, the auction amounted to scalping. He
argued that state law forbids tickets to be sold above their
face value.
   Judge Judith Fitzgerald said the issue of future rights
will be decided later. For now, premiums paid for the tickets
-- in Mr. Cooper's case, $5,380 -- will be held in escrow.
   Quietly watching the whole proceeding was Harry G. Jones,
who once held the 14 tickets as principal owner of I.D. Craig
Service Corp., a health insurer that filed for bankruptcy
protection last year. He'll have a different view of Steeler
games this year.
   "As long as my television works, that's all I need," he
said with a shrug. "It's cold in that stadium."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Court Overturns
   FTC Rule on Limits
   For Optometric Trade
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A U.S. appeals court panel here overturned a
Federal Trade Commission rule that prohibited states from
imposing certain restrictions on optometrists' business
practices.
   The FTC rule, which took effect a year ago, invalidated
state laws that limited the number of offices optometrists
may own or operate and that, among other things, prevented
optometrists from having offices in shopping malls or from
working as employees of retail stores or optical store
chains.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The American Optometric Association, the California
Optometric Association and several states challenged the FTC
action. The court panel ruled that the FTC doesn't have the
authority to regulate state actions.
   The FTC's general counsel, James Spears, said the
commission is "taking a good hard look" at the decision. If
the agency decides to appeal, it can ask for a hearing by the
full appeals court or petition the U.S. Supreme Court for a
ruling.
   The FTC argued that the state restrictions raise prices to
consumers and thus affect the quality of care by causing
consumers to seek care less often. The American Optometric
Association argued that optometrists who operate in chain and
other commercial stores offer inferior eye care.
   A coalition of consumer groups, including the Gray
Panthers and the National Consumers League, supported the
commission's action.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Appeals Panel
   Backs the RTC
   On State Laws
   ---
   Agency May Override Bank
   Statutes in Drive to Sell
   Ailing Thrifts, Branches
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   WOR
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal appeals court ruled that the Resolution Trust
Corp. has the power to override state banking laws to sell
insolvent thrifts and their branches to banks.
   The ruling yesterday, by a panel of the U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals in St. Louis, could help dismantle a major hurdle
to RTC thrift sales in the 13 states that restrict, to
varying degrees, the operation of bank branches.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The circuit court panel, in a 2-1 decision, overturned a
July 9 ruling by federal district Judge Stephen Reasoner of
Little Rock, Ark., who blocked the RTC's planned sale of an
insolvent thrift and its branches to a unit of Worthen
Banking Corp. of Little Rock.
   The RTC successfully argued that it has the right, under
the thrift-reform legislation of 1989, to override state
restrictions on bank branches. Arkansas, New Mexico and 11
other states have laws that restrict bank branches.
   The circuit court is the highest court to rule to date on
the RTC policy. A federal district court judge in New Mexico
ruled in the RTC's favor in mid-June, but the decision has
been appealed to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Denver,
which hasn't yet scheduled arguments in the case.
   Worthen's acquisition of Independence Federal Bank was
challenged by the Arkansas State Bank Department and the
Arkansas Independent Bankers Association; they cited state
laws that bar banks from operating branches outside their
home counties. Independence Federal has 20 branches, some of
which are outside Worthen's home county.
   After Judge Reasoner blocked the Worthen acquisition, the
RTC put on hold its plans to market eight other Arkansas
thrifts for which it acts as conservator. Worthen's offer to
buy Independence Federal was scheduled to expire yesterday.
   In overturning Judge Reasoner's decision, Eighth Circuit
Court Judge John Gibson wrote that the thrift-reform
legislation was ambiguous on the subject of overriding state
laws, but that the RTC has the power to write regulations
that cure the ambiguity. Therefore, Judge Gibson wrote, the
agency was within its rights when it adopted a regulation
permitting overrides of state laws.
   Appellate Judge Gerald Heaney, in a 10-page dissent,
argued that the thrift-reform legislation wasn't ambiguous
and that the RTC couldn't grant itself the power to override
state laws. The dissent will be significant for state banking
commissioners and independent bankers who are challenging the
RTC policy in other states.
   One such challenge is pending in federal district court in
Denver, where the Colorado banking commissioner has asked a
federal judge to rule that the RTC doesn't have the power to
write a regulation overriding state laws. Arguments in that
case are scheduled for Sept. 5.
   Worthen, in the meantime, said the Eighth Circuit ruling
will allow it to acquire Independence Federal "within the
next several weeks." Originally, Worthen bid $1.5 million to
acquire the thrift, its branches and $324 million in
deposits.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Poseidon Gold
   Offers $647 Million
   For Newmont Unit
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   NEM A.NEW A.POS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Poseidon Gold Ltd., Sydney, Australia, offered to acquire
Newmont Australia Ltd. for about $647 million (U.S.) in a
stock swap and negotiated stock purchase.
   Poseidon's offer would exchange one of its shares for
every two shares of Newmont Australia that it doesn't already
control. Poseidon said it has already agreed to purchase 20%
of the shares from Newmont Pty. for about 1.25 Australian
dollars (US$1.04) a share, or about A$166 million (US$137.7
million). Newmont Pty. is a regional exploration unit of
Newmont Mining, Denver.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The offer is contingent on Poseidon acquiring at least 45%
of Newmont Australia.
   After the sale of the 20% stake, Newmont Pty. will
continue to hold about 24% of Newmont Australia's shares.
Newmont Australia holds interests in three gold mines in
Australia. It had sales of A$121.6 million in 1989. The
figure doesn't reflect its addition of the Tuckabianna mine
in May of this year. Newmont Mining owned all of Newmont
Australia until 1987, when it sold 25% to Australian
investors while it was fighting off a hostile bid by Texas
investor T. Boone Pickens Jr.
   A Newmont Mining spokesman in Denver said that, depending
on market conditions, the company will either sell its shares
into the offer or sell them on the open market.
   On the Australian Stock Exchange, Poseidon shares are
trading at about A$2.60 a share, while Newmont Australia
shares are trading at about A$1.12 a share.
   Newmont Mining is reducing its goldmining presence in
Australia in favor of gold exploration efforts in Indonesia
and Papua New Guinea, a company spokesman said.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Newmont
Mining's shares rose 62.5 cents to $47.625.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   PAT CUE
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PATTEN Corp. (Stamford, Vt.) -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
said it lowered its rating on this land sales company's
subordinated debt to triple-C-minus from triple-C-plus,
citing "continued poor performance." The rating concern also
removed Patten's subordinated debt from its CreditWatch list,
where it was placed July 9. The rating downgrade affects
about $35 million of convertible subordinated debentures, S&amp;P
said, adding that Patten's implied senior rating is
triple-C-plus. S&amp;P said Patten "continues to be plagued by
declining sales in its two primary selling regions, New
England and the mid-Atlantic states. This poor performance is
expected to continue, as demand for raw land in these regions
is very weak." Patten's land inventory of $69 million as of
April 1 "remains burdensome," S&amp;P said; furthermore, Patten
is in violation of some of its financial covenants with
banks, potentially resulting in "debt acceleration." It said
Patten's "liquidity and financial flexibility are poor and
unlikely to improve over the short term." President Harry S.
Patten said that the company isn't in violation of its bank
covenants, and that it "is rapidly reducing inventory in the
Northeast" and expects to have sold most of it by the end of
the third quarter. He said that margins on the Northeast
sales "are way below normal," but that Patten's "good margins
in other parts of the country should offset" this.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   QUANTUM CHEMICAL Corp. (New York) -- Standard &amp; Poor's
Corp. lowered its ratings on $2.1 billion of the company's
long-term debt, downgrading senior debt to single-B-plus and
subordinated debt to single-B-minus. The rating agency cited
the increased likelihood of a protracted downturn in the
commodity chemical cycle, as well as the risk of sharply
increased prices for petrochemical raw materials due to the
Middle East crisis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Kloeckner-Werke AG:
   World-Wide Group Sales
   For 9 Months Rose 3.5%
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.KLK
</CO>
<LP>
   Kloeckner-Werke AG of West Germany, a steel, plastics and
machinery maker, said its world-wide group sales for the
first nine months ended June 30 rose 3.5% to 5.4 billion
marks ($3.48 billion).
   In the fiscal year ended last Sept. 30, the company had
world-wide group sales of 7.2 billion marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kloeckner also said earnings to date in fiscal 1990 are
running according to plan, though it wasn't more specific.
But Herbert Gienow, chairman, said operating earnings are
developing favorably and according to plan. Moreover, he
said, the company expects to post net income for the current
fiscal year. In fiscal 1989, Kloeckner had net income of
154,000 marks, a slight improvement on its breakeven
financial position a year earlier; fiscal 1989 operating
earnings totaled 423 million marks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Average Rate Hits 8.018%
   On Citicorp 91-Day Paper
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate rose to 8.018% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs, from 8.0099% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $415 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.009% to 8.028%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp also said that the average rate fell to 8.011% at
its $50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from
8.039% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $380 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 7.985% to 8.035%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity next Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900829-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900829-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sorry Saddam,
   Oil Embargoes
   Don't Hurt U.S.
   ----
   By David R. Henderson
</HL>
<DATE>
08/29/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Saddam Hussein is an evil man who has no qualms about
hurting innocent people. But many Americans believe that if
he were to succeed in extending his control to a large part
of the Arab world, he could severely damage the oil-dependent
U.S. economy. No less an authority than Henry Kissinger has
claimed that an unchecked Saddam would be able to "cause a
world-wide economic crisis."
   But is it true that Saddam Hussein can impose large costs
on our economy? Economic analysis of the oil market answers
with a resounding, No. The annual cost to the U.S. economy of
doing nothing in the Gulf would be less than half of 1% of
the gross national product. The vaunted oil weapon is a dud.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One thing Saddam cannot do is cause oil shortages and
gasoline lines. Only the U.S. government can do that. As long
as the government avoids imposing price controls, any cutback
in supplies that Saddam causes will translate into higher
prices, not shortages. That is the lesson learned from the
1970s. Countries like the U.S. that impose price controls
caused Soviet-style queues. Countries like Switzerland that
avoided price controls made it through the 1970s with no
lines.
   ---
   That's no surprise. If governments let oil prices rise,
people eliminate marginal uses while continuing to use oil
where it is most valuable. They take fewer trips to the
stores and fewer driving vacations, but don't stop driving to
work. Utilities switch from oil to natural gas. People
insulate their houses and close off unused room. In a
thousand different ways, oil users make subtle adjustments
that -- voila -- cause the amount they consume to equal
exactly the amount supplied. The market works.
   Of course, Saddam does not have to create gasoline lines
to hurt the U.S. Increases in the price of oil, even without
shortages, hurt the U.S. economy. But they hurt less than
most people think.
   Take the worst case that has any plausibility whatsoever.
Assume that Iraq holds onto Kuwait and grabs Saudi Arabia
plus the United Arab Emirates. Iraq would then control
virtually all Middle Eastern oil production, except for
Iran's.
   The Middle Eastern oil fields had been producing about
12.3 million barrels per day before the price run-up in late
July. They will go on producing something: Saddam may be
evil, but he is not stupid. He does not want to seize the oil
fields only to leave them idle. He wants them so that he can
sell their oil.
   If Saddam sold the same 12.3 million barrells per day as
were being sold before the invasion of Kuwait, the effect of
his actions on the world price of oil would be zero. Oil
would sell for the pre-crisis price of about $20 per barrel.
   ---
   Obviously, Saddam doesn't intend to sell the same level of
output. By controlling the outputs of four major OPEC cartel
members Saddam would gain monopoly power over Persian Gulf
oil. He would no doubt use this power to cut the combined
production to drive up the world price of oil. The
revenue-maximizing level of output from the Persian Gulf
fields is no less than 8.3 million barrels a day -- a 4
million barrells per day production cut.
   That is less awesome than it sounds. Remember that Saddam
is operating in a market in which world output is about 60
million barrels per day. The loss of 4 million barrels is
thus a 6.7% cut in world output. Granted that in the
short-run the demand for oil is fairly inelastic. Small cuts
in production can therefore cause large increases in world
prices. Adopting the grimmest end of the economists' range of
estimates of elasticity, a 6.7% cut in world production would
cause a 35% rise in price, to about $27 per barrel from the
pre-crisis price of $20.
   Before the crisis, the U.S. was importing about 8 million
barrels of oil a day. If the U.S. were to import the same
amount rather than increasing domestic production or reducing
consumption, it would pay $56 million per day extra for its
imports. This amounts to $20.5 billion per year.
   Now $20.5 billion is not small change. But put the figure
into perspective. It is less than 1/2 of 1% of America's $5
trillion GNP. A loss of 1/2 of 1% of GNP is surely not what
Henry Kissinger had in mind when he referred to an "economic
crisis."
   At the gasoline pump, the cost would show up as an added
17 per gallon on top of the old price of about $1.09 -- a
total of about $1.26, less than motorists are paying now.
Total cost per American per year of the price hike would be
less than $80.
   ---
   Consider, by contrast, the costs of war. Sending troops to
the Gulf has not been cheap. The U.S. spent an estimated $2
billion extra in the first two weeks of the operation.
Staying there a year, or fighting, would probably cost much
more than $20.5 billion in added spending. Nor is this
spending the only cost of intervening, as the plight of the
hostages makes clear.
   Remember also that the U.S. embargo of Kuwait and Iraq
ensures that less oil will be produced. As a result, oil
prices will stay high, which is presumably one of the
outcomes the administration wanted to prevent.
   The $20.5 billion tax that Saddam can levy on the American
economy is only a short-run cost. The longer he restricts oil
production, the less annual damage he can inflict. At the
higher price of oil, other oil producers will produce more,
as is already happening. Moreover, according to energy
economists Arlon Tussing and Sam Van Vactor, at $25 per
barrel, many subsititutes for oil become economically
feasible. The bottom line: Whatever other justifications
there may be for war with Saddam, cheap oil isn't one of
them.
   ---
   Mr. Henderson, the energy economist on President Reagan's
Council of Economic Advisers, is a fellow with the National
Center for Policy Analysis in Dallas. Steve Sylke contributed
to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
