<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0181
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0181.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Short Interest
   Falls for OTC's
   Biggest Stocks
   ---
   But Smaller Issues Showed
   28.3% Increase in Month;
   First Executive Led List
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<IN>
SHORT SALES AND SHORT INTEREST (SHO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Short interest among the over-the-counter
market's largest stocks slipped 1.3% as of mid-April, but
short interest in smaller OTC stocks climbed 28.3%.
   Among individual issues, shares of Los Angeles-based First
Executive, once a large holder of junk bonds, again led the
list of stocks with the largest short positions, reclaiming
the spot it held in February. The short interest in the
holding company edged up 0.8%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Short interest in Intel surged 64.8%, putting the Santa
Clara, Calif., semiconductor maker second among the list of
companies with largest short interest.
   On the other hand, the American depositary receipts of
Reuters Holdings PLC, the information service company, gave
back nearly all the short interest gained last month, when
that company catapulted to the top of the volume list. The
short interest in Reuters fell 10,703,497 shares, to
1,784,218, or 85.7%, compared with last month's rise of
10,710,267 shares.
   Robert Cooke, director of media relations for Reuters
America, the U.S. affiliate of London-based Reuters, said it
appears that eight million of last month's 10,710,267 share
increase involved a block sold short by a U.S. brokerage firm
to a large institutional holder to capture the company's
higher dividend. Another 1.5 to two million shares involved
arbitrage with Eurobonds held by one large holder that were
convertible into Reuters ADRs.
   The National Association of Securities Dealers, the
self-regulatory agency for the OTC markets, reported that
short interest in 2,366 National Market System issues, the
largest OTC stocks, slid to 253,333,653 shares at mid-April
from 256,738,458 in mid-March among 2,343 issues.
   However, short interest in 1,286 smaller stocks traded on
the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated
Quotations system rose to 43,909,145 shares as of April 12,
from 34,230,850 as of mid-March in 1,294 issues.
   Traders who sell short borrow stock and sell it, betting
that the stock's price will decline and that they can buy the
shares back later at a lower price for return to the lender.
   Short interest is the number of shares that haven't yet
been purchased for return to lenders. Although a substantial
short position reflects heavy speculation that a stock's
price will decline, some investors consider an increase in
short interest bullish because the borrowed shares eventually
must be bought back.
   And some short interest doesn't reflect any opinion on the
stock at all but shows up as part of another strategy, such
as arbitrage or dividend capture, as in the case of Reuters.
   The National Market System's short-interest ratio at
mid-April fell to 2.69 from 2.83 a month earlier, while the
short-interest ratio for other OTC issues climbed to 1.27
from .88 in mid-March.
   The ratio -- the number of trading days at the market's
average daily volume that would be required to cover the
total short interest position -- is a measure of negative
trader sentiment. Some analysts suggest, however, that the
ratio has weakened in value as an indicator because options
and other products can be used to hedge short positions.
   Nasdaq stocks that showed the largest percentage increases
in short interest involved Cobe Laboratories, a Lakewood,
Colo., concern that recently agreed to merge with Gambro AB,
a Swedish medical equipment maker. Coda Energy, a
Dallas-based oil and gas concern, showed the largest
percentage drop in short interest. Last month the company
adopted anti-takeover measures.
   The adjacent tables show the National Market System issues
in which a short position of at least 50,000 shares existed
at April 12 or in which the short position had changed by at
least 25,000 shares from mid-March (see accompanying tables
-- WSJ April 25, 1990).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0180
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0180.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Salomon Posts $119 Million Earnings
   After Loss; Morgan Stanley Net Edges Up
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   MS SB S PIPR JEFG
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Two of Wall Street's biggest securities firms
reported stronger results for the first quarter, largely
reflecting big bond-trading windfalls.
   But Salomon Inc. and Morgan Stanley Group Inc. didn't
totally escape the securities industry's recent Achilles
heel: a soft investment banking climate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Salomon, fueled by a big gain in its Salomon Brothers Inc.
securities unit, reported net income of $119 million, or 88
cents a share, rebounding from a loss of $28 million, or 35
cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter. Earnings were
helped by a big gain in revenue from trading for the firm's
own account, offset by flat investment banking revenue and a
loss in its commodities unit.
   At Morgan Stanley, net income edged higher, to $82.1
million, or $2.07 a share, from $81.1 million, or $2.02 a
share, a year earlier. A 41% jump in trading revenue more
than made up for a 29% slump in investment banking.
   The two earnings reports cap a tumultuous period for
securities-industry profits. Although some firms managed
modest gains, many didn't, and an industry-record quarterly
loss was posted by American Express Co.'s Shearson Lehman
Hutton Holdings Inc. unit. The firms that fared best in the
quarter generally benefited from savvy trading that made up
for a slump in traditional securities businesses. Many
securities firms reported declines of 20% or more in
investment-banking revenue.
   Salomon's trading gains were expected. Morgan Stanley is
known chiefly for its investment banking business. But "in
this quarter, as happened in the crash quarter of 1987,
Morgan has proven that trading can be important as well,"
says Alison Deans, a securities-industry analyst at Kidder,
Peabody &amp; Co. "It drives home how well they manage overall
business to maintain profitability."
   Separately, Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co.'s Dean Witter Reynolds
Inc. reported an 18% increase in income from its securities
operations for the quarter; profit dropped 19% at Piper
Jaffray Inc. and 65% at Jefferies Group Inc.
   Both Salomon and Morgan Stanley benefited from their
strong presence overseas. Each got a boost from international
trading profits, analysts said.
   Salomon's securities unit earned $218 million before taxes
for the quarter, compared with a pretax loss of $106 million
a year earlier. But its Phibro Energy segment, a big driver
in Salomon's earnings last year, reported
"uncharacteristically weak earnings" of $4 million in the
quarter, down 96% from the year-earlier $94 million, Salomon
said. Salomon cited weak demand for oil products and losses
in refining and refined-product trading.
   Salomon's Philipp Brothers commodities unit had a pretax
loss of $21 million in the period, narrower than the
year-earlier pretax loss of $60 million. About $11 million of
the most recent loss stemmed from nonferrous-metals trading,
Salomon said, although it declined to identify the specific
metals.
   "I don't think anyone should be proud of" the commodities
unit earnings, said Robert Salomon Jr., a managing director.
"But there is some hope that things will improve."
   Salomon said total revenue for the quarter jumped 53%, to
$2.35 billion, from $1.54 billion.
   At Morgan Stanley, revenue rose 13% to $1.4 billion from
$1.24 billion in the year-earlier period. Besides strong
trading results, the firm was helped by a 7% rise in
commission revenue and a 20% jump in asset-management
proceeds.
   In a statement, Morgan Stanley said its quarterly
performance "benefited from results of improved sales and
trading activities, particularly in fixed income and foreign
exchange. Investment banking revenues declined as a result of
significanly reduced merger and acquisition advice fees,
reflecting a world-wide slowdown" in takeover activity.
   Look for tougher earnings comparisons in the coming two
quarters for many securities firms, some analysts say. That's
partly because it will be more difficult to match
year-earlier results bolstered by increased stock-market
activity in the comparable 1989 periods.
   "Earnings momentum will be very, very weak for the next
few quarters," says Dean Eberling, a financial services
analyst for Shearson Lehman Hutton. As for the stocks of many
securities firms, Mr. Eberling says: "Effectively they're
dead money near term."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0179
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0179.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Senate Committee Clears $720 Million
   In New Aid for Panama and Nicaragua
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Appropriations Committee narrowly
approved $720 million in new assistance for Panama and
Nicaragua as part of a spending bill that would add an
estimated $2.5 billion to domestic accounts in the fiscal
year ending Sept. 30.
   By a 15-14 margin, the Bush administration blocked efforts
by committee Chairman Robert Byrd (D., W.Va.) to cut Panama's
portion of the funding by $120 million. But the fight was a
harbinger of the increased difficulties the White House faces
in meeting demands for assistance to emerging democracies in
Central America and Europe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Allies of the administration were put in the awkward
position of rejecting an alternative package that included
$10 million to help the new Chilean government address
health-care problems and $150 million in Export-Import Bank
loan funds for U.S. businesses seeking trade with Eastern
Europe.
   Though important symbolically after the U.S. invasion last
December, the Panamanian funds include money for such items
as tourism and repayment on loans to multilateral banks.
Republicans were forced to swallow these costs by agreeing to
deeper cuts from defense than previously proposed by
Democrats.
   Though the Central America package was the heart of the
administration's initial request, the underlying bill, which
passed easily, has grown to include a laundry list of
domestic appropriations offset largely by reductions from the
Pentagon.
   Commerce Department funding would be increased by $125
million, including $110 million for the census now under way.
A total of $190 million is added for the Justice Department,
largely to meet increased salaries at the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.
   Food-stamp appropriations would be increased by $705
million, or 38% more than the House-passed version of the
same bill. The Senate committee also provides $94 million, or
almost double the House level, for veterans' medical care and
would fully fund the Head Start program for low-income
pre-school children with an additional $165.7 million.
   Reductions or transfers from defense accounts are expected
to exceed $2.8 billion, or over $1 billion more than the
House. While protecting politically favored projects, such as
the RDX munitions plant in Louisiana, the bill rescinds $171
million from the SR-71 reconnaissance program and assumes the
termination of research and development of a successor to the
Lance short-range nuclear missile in Europe.
   "This proposal reflects changes in requirements in view of
promising developments in the Soviet Union and Eastern
Europe," the committee report reads. "The likely
reunification of Germany makes ultimate deployment" of a new
generation of missiles "a virtual impossibility, according to
leading West German officials."
   The optimism here contrasted with the maneuvering by
Chairman Byrd elsewhere to seemingly goad Moscow and the
administration on Lithuania. The West Virginian produced a
hastily drafted amendment setting aside $10 million for a
U.S. embassy to the newly proclaimed republic of Lithuania,
but was forced to concede that he hadn't read the text
himself when challenged by Republicans. A more revised, and
more subdued, version was subsequently produced by anxious
staff as part of the final bill, but the language puts the
Senate in the position of appropriating funds for an embassy
without an ambassador yet appointed.
   Not included in the foreign aid totals is $400 million in
housing-loan guarantees to assist the resettlement of Soviet
Jewish refugees in Israel. The same credits are included in
the House-passed bill, but the Senate committee goes further
by spelling out the reduced fees that will be charged the
Jerusalem government for administration of the program.
   Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole (R., Kan.), who has
questioned the cost and merit of the loan-guarantee program,
has indicated he won't oppose the measure on the floor.
   However, a separate fight may yet develop over a proposed
repeal of language that restricts the District of Columbia's
ability to use its funds to finance abortions.
Abortion-rights advocates were forced to back down after
President Bush repeatedly vetoed a similar provision last
fall, but the supplemental-spending bill gives the
abortion-rights movement a higher-profile vehicle and one the
administration will be harder pressed to reject outright.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0178
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0178.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Focus:
   Quaker Oats to Spin Off Fisher-Price Unit
   ---
   Move Allows Food Firm
   To Focus on Core Business
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   OAT Z.NES MO UN UL
</CO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Quaker Oats Co. decided to spin off its
troubled Fisher-Price toy business to shareholders, allowing
management to concentrate on other difficulties at what, for
the first time in two decades, is a "pure" food company.
   The big packaged foods company boasts some sterling brand
names and strong market positions. Overseas business is
booming. But in recent months it has struggled with sluggish
sales in its U.S. and Canadian grocery products businesses,
particularly with pet foods and snacks. Meanwhile,
competition across the table is becoming increasingly
intense; soft-drink giants Coca-Cola and PepsiCo are
organizing attacks on Quaker's biggest-selling product,
Gatorade.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thus, the decision to spin off Fisher-Price seems, as
Quaker's oatmeal spokesman Wilford Brimley puts it, "the
right thing to do."
   "Hallelujah]" exclaimed Prudential-Bache Securities food
analyst John McMillin, long an advocate of the spinoff.
   Other analysts also applauded. "Management was spending a
lot of time on Fisher-Price, so just being able to focus on
their basic businesses has got to be a plus," said Roger W.
Spencer of PaineWebber Inc.
   Quaker stock initially jumped on the news, rising more
than a dollar before settling at $49.25 a share, up 62.5
cents in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.
Quaker's 52-week high was $68.875.
   If regulators approve the spinoff -- now planned for early
next year -- Fisher-Price would become an independent,
free-standing company ranking among the top six U.S. toy
makers. In its most recent fiscal year, Fisher-Price reported
sales of $844.8 million and $97 million in operating
earnings. But after a disastrous Christmas season, the
company will end this year substantially in the red. William
D. Smithburg, chairman and chief executive of Quaker Oats,
estimated Fisher-Price's total losses for the year could
reach "somewhere around $20 million to $30 million."
   Under the planned spinoff, Quaker shareholders would
receive stock in the new company, but the number of shares
won't be determined for some time, a spokesman said. That
will depend on the number of Quaker shares outstanding and
the value of the toy company. Quaker now has 75.5 million
shares outstanding, but has been aggressively repurchasing
its stock of late.
   Quaker said it will transfer an unspecified amount of its
debt to the new entity, but "we intend to structure the debt
so Fisher-Price is in a position of strength and able to be
self-sufficient," a spokesman said.
   In the latest nine months, the toy division had sales of
about $566 million, but inventory write-offs and trade
markdowns following the Christmas fiasco, plus a subsequent
plant closing, led to an operating loss of about $34.8
million for the period. Based in East Aurora, N.Y.,
Fisher-Price has about 7,400 employees world-wide and
represents about 17% of its parent's identifiable assets.
   Quaker had built Fisher-Price from a $30 million business
in 1969 and profited handsomely from toys that became
household staples for preschoolers. But last year's overly
ambitious product line, which not only couldn't be delivered
to stores in time but failed to wow consumers, left the
parent company bloodied and angry. Fisher-Price's former
president departed in January, to be temporarily replaced by
executives coincidentally named Fisher and Price.
   Paul E. Price, senior vice president of finance at the
parent company, has served as Fisher-Price's temporary
president, but will return to Quaker after the spinoff, the
company said. It is now searching for a new chief executive
officer to head the toymaker when it strikes out on its own.
   Shareholders wondering how Fisher-Price will fare
independent of Quaker might get some guidance from the past.
In a move strikingly similar to Quaker's, in 1985 General
Mills Inc. spun off its Kenner and Parker Brothers toy group
as an independent concern. The spun-off company subsequently
was acquired by Tonka Corp., which earlier this week reported
a loss for the latest quarter.
   "It is a risky business, totally product driven," said toy
industry analyst Carol Palmer of Duff &amp; Phelps, Chicago,
commenting on an independent Fisher-Price's chances. "To the
extent that Fisher-Price has toothpaste-type products, that
makes them a little more stable."
   Assuming the spinoff goes as planned, Quaker executives
will be able to concentrate on fixing the bread-and-butter
businesses. Noting that Fisher-Price's latest "trough" was
its third under Quaker's ownership, Mr. Smithburg said that
without the toy business, "We can clearly focus better on
groceries."
   Chief among his concerns is likely to be getting the
Gaines dog food house in order. Although Quaker has a strong
European franchise, it is fighting to hold a low-margin 20%
of the U.S. dog food market -- a performance that Mr.
Smithburg acknowledges "for the last few years has been below
expectations." But, he added in an interview yesterday, "we
think profitability on pet foods has bottomed out, and expect
to see increases in profit next year and volume stability on
key brands by the summer."
   Volume is a tricky issue at Quaker. While overall volume
in its U.S. and Canadian grocery products business fell 4% in
the latest quarter, the company increasingly is concentrating
its marketing dollars on higher-margin items. Despite
"intense competition," Mr. Smithburg predicts "a good fourth
quarter" in grocery products.
   Analysts are circumspect. Nomi Ghez, an analyst at
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., yesterday cut her estimate for Quaker's
1990 operating earnings to $3.10 from $3.20. "I frankly could
see some benefits in keeping the {toy} business and turning
it around, since they have gone through most of the pain
already," she said. "Now they're left with a lackluster food
business that can maybe grow over time at 10% to 12%."
   Quaker has been atop many of Wall Street's takeover target
lists in recent months, as its stock slumped below
food-industry rivals. Prudential-Bache's Mr. McMillin said:
"You can argue they're doing a raider's dirty work" by
spinning off Fisher-Price, but the move "creates shareholder
values, which should boost the stock. Investors have been
valuing Fisher-Price at zero."
   Mr. McMillin said he recently advised clients that Nestle
S.A., the world's biggest food conglomerate, "has always
coveted Quaker's businesses and would be the most likely
corporate buyer. Unilever and Philip Morris would also be
candidates."
   But Mr. Smithburg, who lately has stressed his company's
desire to remain independent, yesterday sought to minimize
such speculation. "I don't lose a lot of sleep over
takeovers," he said. "My task is to run the company the best
way possible."
   ---
                    Quaker's Businesses
                                                                                                       

                    Ranked by 1989 sales
                                                                                                       

                  (In millions of dollars)
                                                                                                       

                                                 % CHANGE
                                       1989     FROM 1988
                                                                                                       

 International                     $1,249.5          5.3%
 Fisher-Price Toys                    844.8          2.8
 Grocery Specialties                  739.0         20.9
 (Gatorade, Van Camp's)
 Pet Foods                            608.4        - 6.5
 Ready-to-eat Cereals                 443.5         11.6
 Food Service                         414.7         29.3
 Hot cereals                          377.1         15.4
 Golden Grain                         282.8          4.4

 Canada                               216.0         20.9
 Celeste Pizza,                       214.8          7.9
 corn products
 Snacks                               114.2        -18.4
                                                                                                       

 Total                             $5,724.2          7.4%
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0177
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0177.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   No More Third World Surliness -- Promise
   ----
   By Stephen Kampimpina Katenta-Apuli
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM EUROP AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   On Monday, two Third World leaders made speeches at the UN
that would have seemed unthinkable in the recent past.
Bolivia's planning minister, Enrique Garcia, argued for a
move from "societies that overemphasize centralism and state
paternalism to those where individual initiative becomes the
driving force." Yugoslavia's foreign minister, Budimir
Loncar, dismissed Third World demands for a New International
Economic Order.
   The multiple failures of Marxism-Leninism are filling
everyone with euphoria about the advance of freedom and
democracy these days. But the tightened belts of the Third
World countries are turning into nooses that threaten to
strangle all but the most repressive governments. It will
take a resurgence of growth to save the situation. And growth
requires an inflow of capital, not merely debt reduction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fortunately, this scenario points to a well-balanced
solution. Begin with the fact that the industrialized nations
face static horizons and a darkening unemployment picture
unless entirely new markets are found. The tendency of the
free enterprise system to produce up to and often beyond the
limits of effective demand cannot be corrected by perpetually
calling on the sated economies to boost their growth rates by
another 0.5%.
   On the Third World side, there are rapidly growing
populations that will turn into engines of violence and
instability unless they become gainfully employed using the
capital, technological know-how and management of the West.
   But wasn't that the great experiment and the great failure
of two decades ago? Not really, because the earlier
investments in and loans to the Third World were done
half-heartedly or imprudently by all parties. Third World
countries foolishly confused independence with surliness in
those days. They thought the world owed them everything for
its earlier misdeeds; and they saw each business overture as
a warning of neo-colonialism.
   The advanced countries were so caught up in their guilt
complexes that they dared not tell Third World countries of
their glaring management errors. So the corrective advice
that every business partner gets from his investors was
denied to the new leaders who needed it most.
   Those mental lapses are evaporating. No longer fearful of
being dominated, Third World countries are recognizing that
equity participants are a far better source of capital and
growth than lenders who want their payments promptly and
often. And they have learned in a remarkably short time that
investors expect hospitality and equal treatment from a host
country.
   The spectacular successes of such Third World countries as
Thailand, Taiwan and South Korea have quieted fears that
emerging nations could never make good use of capital. Costa
Rica, Colombia, Chile, Kenya, Uganda, Nigeria, the
Philippines, Indonesia and at least a dozen other Third World
countries could very well surge into similar growth patterns.
   What is needed is an invitation to the most promising
Third World countries to join in a partnership for growth.
The 24 advanced countries of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, working together to launch the
necessary infrastructure projects, could -- with trifling
sums of capital from each one -- start a move in the
high-growth direction. This is the program that HUD Secretary
Jack Kemp, former U.S. Agriculture Secretary John Block,
Belgian Foreign Minister Leo Tindemans and 13 other developed
country political leaders and experts have recently proposed
in Charles Cerami's "An International Roundtable on World
Economic Development," (Praeger, 1990). The selected
developing nations would accept stringent responsibilities --
hospitality to investors, free trade and an acceptance of
outside advice in deciding the projects to be undertaken.
   North-South partnership must come. When it does, let us
hope that there is no minimalism about it. For, as Israeli
diplomat Abba Eban has said, "The world's leaders are too
often occupied in marking time so vigorously that they give
the illusion of moving forward." Small moves would be utterly
wasteful in this area. Governments must show enough vitality
and consistency to tell private business that this time is
for real.
   ---
   Mr. Katenta-Apuli is the Ugandan ambassador to the U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0176
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0176.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Don't Get Caught
   With Britches Down
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   Conventional wisdom errs in concluding Mikhail Gorbachev
would not use Red military power to "save the union" because
of "fear of destroying his international reputation as a man
of peace" ("Tense War of Nerves in Lithuania May Be
Backfiring for Gorbachev," March 26).
   Mr. Gorbachev's political base is the Russian nationality.
The percentage of Russians living in the 14 republics
excluding the Russian Soviet Federated Socialist Republic
ranges from 2% in Armenia to 41% in Kazakhstan, where
Russians outnumber native Kazakhs. Latvia is one-third
inhabited by Russians, and 28% of the Estonian population is
Russian. On average, 17% of the 14 non-Russian republics is
Russian.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The percentage of Russians living as inhabitants rather
than occupiers in what once was called Eastern Europe is
nearly zero. Predicting Mr. Gorbachev's behavior in
Lithuania, Latvia or Moldavia on his past behavior in Eastern
Europe is a false analogy. He had no nationalistic political
commitment to the Poles, Czechs, etc., but he has a deep,
back-to-the-czars political commitment to the Russian
nationals living outside the Russian S.F.S.R. These were sent
as colonizers to the other republics, first by the czars and
then by the Communists. If Mr. Gorbachev betrays them, is it
possible to believe he could retain the political support of
his power base, the Russians living in Russian S.F.S.R.?
   Conversations with Russians in Tallinn, Tbilisi, Alma-Ata,
Tashkent, Leningrad and Moscow convey the same message: "We
Russians made great sacrifices to industrialize and raise the
standard of living of the other republics. Now they are out
to ditch us. No way."
   Instead of mouthing pieties, the West and especially the
Bush administration should prepare for bloodshed rather than
being caught with their britches at half-mast as happened at
Tiananmen Square.
   Barton S. Pulling
   Visiting Assistant Professor
   Political Science
   Idaho State University
   Pocatello, Idaho
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Unfilled Orders in Canada
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian manufacturers' unfilled orders in
February fell 0.7% from January, Statistics Canada, a federal
agency, said, citing in part lower order backlogs at
machinery and primary metal industries.
   Unfilled orders rose 0.7% in January and fell 1.8% in
December. In February, manufacturers' shipments rose 1.9%,
because of the reopening of some auto plants that were
temporarily closed in January.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Board of Contributors:
   Social Security Can Build a National Trust
   ----
   By Martin Feldstein
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The most important economic decision facing Congress this
year is whether to continue the accumulation of a Social
Security trust fund. Under current law, the Social Security
program is projected to have a surplus of $70 billion this
year and nearly $500 billion over the next five years. Sen.
Daniel Moynihan (D., N.Y.) and others have recently
criticized these surpluses, claiming that they are just an
accounting sham that disguises the deficit in the federal
budget and calling for a cut in the payroll tax to eliminate
them. The administration has defended the Social Security
surpluses and has proposed steps to strengthen the process of
trust fund accumulation.
   The resulting debate reopens an issue that Congress
thought it settled in 1983. At that time, in response to the
prospect of a large increase in Social Security benefits when
the baby boom generation begins retiring after 2012, Congress
voted to raise payroll tax rates immediately in order to
accumulate a substantial Social Security trust fund.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If everything goes according to plan, no further increase
in Social Security tax rates will be needed despite the sharp
rise in the ratio of retirees to workers that will take place
after 2012. Instead, the interest earned on the accumulated
fund will supplement future Social Security tax receipts to
finance the increased benefits. And when the interest and tax
receipts aren't enough, the Social Security system will start
selling the bonds in the fund to meet benefit obligations.
   Is this really possible? Will the Social Security trust
fund really permit the benefits of the baby boom generation
of retirees to be met without raising future taxes and
therefore without cutting the consumption of those who are
then working? The answer is "yes" -- if the Social Security
surplus actually increases national saving and thus adds to
the nation's stock of plant and equipment and other forms of
capital.
   An increased capital stock can substitute for future tax
hikes (and therefore for reduced consumption of those who are
working in the future) because a larger capital stock will
mean a higher level of gross national product when the baby
boomers retire. That extra national income, much of which
will accrue directly to the Social Security system in the
form of interest on the bonds in the trust fund, can be used
to finance the consumption of the increased numbers of
retirees. And, when that extra GNP isn't enough to meet the
increased benefit obligations, selling the bonds in the trust
fund will shift resources from private investment to retiree
consumption while leaving the consumption of the working
population unchanged. Even with a reduced level of investment
in those years, the total capital stock will remain higher
and GNP greater than they would have been without the initial
accumulation of a trust fund.
   The key question is therefore whether the Social Security
surpluses and the accumulation of the trust fund actually do
increase national saving and capital formation.
   Those who attack the current surpluses claim that they do
not increase capital accumulation because they "just finance
the existing budget deficit." That argument is simply wrong.
Although it is true that the Social Security trust fund is
invested in government bonds that are issued to finance the
existing budget deficit, the impact of the Social Security
surplus on capital accumulation depends on whether those
bonds would otherwise have been bought by private investors.
If so, the purchase of those bonds by the Social Security
trust fund leaves private investors with the resources to
invest in new corporate stocks and bonds and to make loans
that finance private investment. In short, if the trust fund
buys bonds that would have existed anyway and been sold to
the general public, the Social Security surplus indirectly
finances a greater rate of private capital accumulation.
   The same point can be made in another way. It is wrong to
argue that the Social Security surplus "masks" the existing
budget deficit. The budget deficit that matters for the
nation's economic performance is the total or "unified"
deficit that includes both the Social Security surplus and
the deficit in the rest of the budget. It is the unified
deficit that the government must finance by borrowing from
the private sector and the rest of the world. An extra dollar
of Social Security surplus reduces the government's borrowing
needs by a dollar and thus adds a dollar to national saving.
   Assessing the extent to which the Social Security surplus
adds to national saving ultimately depends on a political
judgement: How large would the deficit in the rest of the
budget be if there were no Social Security surplus? If there
were no Social Security surplus now, there might well be
greater political pressure on Congress and the administration
for additional spending cuts or tax increases. If that
political pressure caused spending cuts and tax increases
equal to the current $70 billion Social Security surplus, the
Social Security surplus has no net effect on the budget
deficit or national saving.
   Although that is theoretically possible, my judgment is
that it is very unlikely that Congress and the administration
would have found $70 billion in other deficit reductions --
more than all of the deficit cuts combined over the past five
years. As a practical fact, without the Social Security
surplus, the budget deficit would be larger than it is today
and the rate of national saving would therefore be lower.
   The same logic applies to future changes in the Social
Security program. The direct impact of the Moynihan proposal
to reduce the Social Security tax rate and eliminate the
surplus would be to increase the annual budget deficit by
nearly $100 billion in 1993 and by larger amounts after that.
The government would therefore have to sell $100 billion of
additional bonds to the public that year and $100 billion of
private investment would be crowded out.
   If such a cut in the Social Security tax induced Congress
to raise other taxes and to cut spending by a total of $100
billion a year in 1993, the fall in Social Security revenue
would be neutralized. Everyone can make his own judgement
about whether that would be likely. But after watching the
difficulty with which Congress has achieved annual deficit
reductions of less than $10 billion a year for the past five
years, I doubt very much that it would suddenly find $100
billion a year of new taxes or spending cuts. The Moynihan
proposal to cut the Social Security tax would make the budget
deficit larger and the national saving rate smaller.
   To make certain that the Social Security surplus keeps
adding to national saving, President Bush has proposed a
sequel to the Gramm-Rudman legislation. The current
Gramm-Rudman law calls for a balanced budget by 1993, with
the expected 1993 Social Security surplus of $98 billion
offsetting an equal deficit in the rest of the budget. The
administration plan calls for a second phase of Gramm-Rudman
after 1993 in which the budget -- excluding Social Security
-- would be required to be balanced by 1997. Since the Social
Security portion of the budget would then have an annual
surplus equal to about 2% of GNP, the total budget would then
also show a surplus equal to about 2% of GNP. That surplus
would reduce the national debt and be a net addition to our
nation's saving and capital formation.
   Such a budget surplus could in principle be achieved
without a Social Security trust fund by other tax increases
and spending cuts. But I cannot imagine the political support
for such large tax hikes or spending cuts just for the sake
of running a budget surplus and paying down some of the
national debt. Accumulating a fund to meet future Social
Security benefit obligations without the need for future tax
increases is a politically feasible way -- probably the only
politically feasible way -- to create a desirable and
sustained surplus in the government budget.
   The currently projected Social Security surpluses are the
best hope for a major rise in America's national saving rate
in the coming decade. That could reverse the public-debt
accumulation of the 1980s and offset the adverse effect of
Social Security on private saving. Proposals to shrink the
Social Security surpluses would take us in just the wrong
direction. What is needed instead is a tougher overall budget
framework to make certain that those Social Security
surpluses become overall budget surpluses.
   ---
   Mr. Feldstein, former chairman of the President's Council
of Economic Advisers, is a professor of economics at Harvard.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CBOT to Launch Oat Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The Chicago Board of Trade said it plans to
begin trading an oat futures-options contract Tuesday.
   The launch of the oat contract will mean that every CBOT
agricultural futures contract "will be complemented by an
options market," the exchange said. Months listed for the
contract will be the same as the underlying oat futures,
beginning with July 1990.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kodak-Recycled Paperboard
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EK
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCHESTER, N.Y. -- Eastman Kodak Corp. said it will begin
converting its consumer film packaging this year to recycled
paperboard, which is produced from newspapers, corrugated
paperboard, carton stock and computer paper.
   The photographic, chemicals and pharmaceuticals concern
said improved technology enables it to reprint, with high
quality, its logo and other graphics on recycled stock. Kodak
said the new packaging wouldn't increase its costs or film
price.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Bored-Room Report
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   (". . . 40% of surveyed executives admitted falling asleep
during formal presentations." -- WSJ news item)
                                                                                                       

   Here's a statistic That's right on the beam: Forty percent
sleep And the rest daydream.
   -- Arnold J. Zarett.
   ---
   Honeymoon Car
                                                                                                       

   Garish with crepe streamers,
   Scrawled with ribald wit,
   Love alone has courage
   Enough to ride in it.
   -- Bert H. Kruse.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Breakup of Soviet Empire Doesn't Spell `Sarajevo'
   ----
   By David Clay Large
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   To evaluate the fundamental political changes going on in
Europe these days, journalists and commentators have pressed
a whole lexicon of historical catchphrases into heavy-duty
service. "1848," for example, the year revolutionary
movements shook European capitals, now serves as shorthand to
describe the hopeful -- and, perhaps, sometimes, ephemeral --
move to democracy in places like Poland, Czechoslovakia,
Bulgaria or Romania.
   A reference point that pops up even more frequently is
"Sarajevo," the name of the Bosnian town where, in 1914, an
assasination triggered World War I and the dissolution of the
Habsburg empire. Recognizing that the great powers
essentially "stumbled" into a world-wide conflagration they
didn't want and whose course they couldn't control, we have
come to see Sarajevo and its aftermath as a case study in the
frailties of political leadership -- as a metaphor for the
capacity of otherwise rational men to turn diplomatic
molehills into mountains of human misery. Writers and
speakers also sometimes speak of "Sarajevo" when they seek to
warn of the chaos the breakup of another empire, the Soviet
one, might bring. But there are some problems we might like
to consider before employing this mighty analogy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Take a moment to review what actually happened in the
Bosnian capital three-quarters of a century ago. On June 28,
1914, a young Serbian nationalist named Gavrilo Princip
assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand, heir to the throne of
Austria-Hungary, and his wife Sophie. Franz Ferdinand was a
moderate who hoped to hold the multinational Habsburg Empire
together through concessions to Slavs. His assassin belonged
to a terrorist society that saw him as a threat to its dream
of an independent south-Slav state.
   Anti-Slav elements in Vienna understood that they could
use Franz Ferdinand's murder as a pretext for a move against
the pan-Slav center of Serbia. After securing promises of
support from its ally Germany, the Austro-Hungarian
government delivered an ultimatum to Serbia, an ultimatum
designed to be too draconian for Serbs to accept. Belgrade's
refusal would allow the imperial army to attack Serbia.
Austria's bullying of Serbia aroused the Russians, who
considered themselves defenders of Slavic interests in the
Balkans. Czar Nicholas II ordered mobilization against
Austria.
   This in turn alarmed the Germans, who like Austria-Hungary
opposed the expansion of Slavic power, and whose military
leaders were prepared to risk a "preventive war" against
Russia. They also feared that they might not be able to stop
the huge Russian "steamroller" once it was effectively set in
motion. Germany felt particularly vulnerable because Russia
was allied to France, which was likely to fall upon the Reich
from the west while Germany was attempting to contain Russia
in the east. Germany's strategy in the event of war -- the
infamous Schlieffen Plan -- therefore called for a rapid and
overwhelming strike against Paris, the success of which would
allow German troops to hurry east before the Russian
steamroller started to roll.
   The French government, recalling France's mauling by the
Germans in the Franco-Prussian war 44 years before, was not
anxious for a general war, but did give its Russian ally the
same assurances that Germany had given Austria; Paris hoped
that this might restrain the Germans. France's other ally,
Britain, also hoped to prevent an escalation of the conflict,
since if France were attacked Britain would surely have to
come to her defense.
   Germany should have known this all along, but the
likelihood of British intervention seems to have dawned on
the Reich's leadership only at the last minute.
Austria-Hungary declared war on Serbia on July 28, even
though Belgrade had accommodated virtually all the demands
contained in Vienna's ultimatum. Austria was encouraged in
this course by the German general staff, which reassured
Vienna that it still had the full backing of the world's most
powerful army.
   Each of the powers went to war in August 1914 expecting
rapid and decisive victory. But the fighting was to last four
years and to claim roughly nine million lives. The European
war became a "world war" because it was fought by empires
that drew on the manpower of their colonies, and because
unrestricted submarine warfare by the Germans brought the
U.S. into the conflict in 1917. It was said to be the "war to
end all wars," but its outcome prepared the way for a second,
more terrible, conflict.
   Could "Sarajevo" happen again? Six years ago
defense-policy analyst Steven E. Miller asked this question
and concluded that indeed it could. He argued that in 1984,
as in 1914, leaders were dangerously flirting with the
notions that military measures were necessary to preserve
power; that a war, even one between the superpowers, could be
quick, decisive, and "limited"; that there were great
advantages in striking first and great perils in not doing
so. And he noted that if the costs of the First World War
were vastly disproportionate to the ends achieved, they were
likely to be so again in 1984, but by a rather more
impressive margin.
   Although one might quarrel with some aspects of Mr.
Miller's historical comparison, searching for analogies
between 1914 and the present probably made more sense in 1984
than it would today. Systems of "entangling alliances," which
played so pernicious a role in the outbreak of World War I,
and continued to define international politics in 1984, are
rapidly falling apart. The concept of "limited war" --
entertained both by the men of 1914 and the U.S. government
in the early 1980s -- no longer seem so prevalent in high
councils of state. Doctrines of devastating "first strikes"
or effective "forward defense," championed so loudly in 1914
and again in the early 1980s, have not been officially
abandoned, but their viability has been undercut by
arms-reduction agreements and troop withdrawals. Political
leaders are no longer inclined -- indeed they have not been
so since World War I -- to abdicate responsibility to their
generals; generals, for that matter, are now often more
cautious than politicians.
   Of course, we should not be too quick to conclude that the
atrophy of the Cold War and the decline in mutual
saber-rattling is rapidly ushering in an "end of history" of
the kind described by State Department analyst Francis
Fukuyama. There may be some certain ominous similarities
between the realities of 1914 and those of today. Once again
a multinational empire is facing an internal "nationalities
crisis" that might induce it to resort to military measures.
The disintegration of that empire's Eastern European sphere
of influence has unleashed nationalist forces as potentially
destabilizing as those of 1914. Ironically, the nationalities
conflict is particularly fierce in Yugoslavia, the South-Slav
state that Princip hoped to bring to life by killing Franz
Ferdinand.
   Asked during the war by his prison physician if he would
still have shot the archduke had he known what would follow,
Princip answered "yes." Plenty of Princips are still abroad
in the world. One thing, though, will certainly be different
if another Princip pulls the trigger on a new Armageddon: It
is unlikely the event will be commemorated by footsteps
stamped in the concrete, as is the case at the corner of
Rudolf Street and the Appel Quai in downtown Sarajevo.
   ---
   Mr. Large, a professor of history at Montana State
University, recently published "Between Two Fires: Europe's
Path in the 1930s" (Norton).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Allergan Quarterly Net
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AGN
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Allergan Inc., spun off as a public
company by SmithKline Beckman Corp. in July, said
first-quarter net fell 21%, to $13.6 million, or 20 cents a
share.
   The maker of eye and skin-care products cited competitive
pricing and the depressed contact-lens market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1989's first quarter, Allergan had net of $17.3
million, or 26 cents a share. Sales rose 9% in the latest
three months to $195.1 million from $178.6 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   RJR Reports
   1st-Period Loss
   Of $222 Million
   ---
   But Firm's Operating Profit
   And Cash Flow Gained
   As Cigarette Sales Grew
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   RJR Nabisco Inc. reported a loss of $222 million for the
first quarter because of massive debt expenses, but the food
and tobacco company showed strong gains in operating profit
and cash flow.
   RJR, taken private last year in a $25 billion leveraged
buy-out by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co., reported brisk
growth in cigarette revenue, mostly because of price
increases and cuts in overhead costs. Most importantly, RJR's
debt coverage -- its cash flow as a percentage of total
interest obligations -- reached 1.14 in the quarter, up from
1.04 three months earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "That's pretty good for a first-year LBO of that size,"
said Sam DeRosa-Farag, a bond analyst with First Boston Corp.
"That's the beauty" of taking a tobacco company private
through an LBO: "They're cash cows."
   RJR revenue jumped 9.5% to $3.2 billion from $2.93
billion. The growth was paced by a 15% increase in tobacco
revenue, to $1.86 billion from $1.62 billion. Revenue from
food grew 3% to $1.34 billion from $1.31 billion, which
includes several units that have been divested in the past
year.
   Louis V. Gerstner Jr., RJR's chairman and chief executive
officer, said the New York company's results benefited from
RJR's decision last year to end the practice called trade
loading, whereby the company built up huge excess inventories
among its cigarette distributors. In past years, RJR's heavy
fourth-quarter trade loads had the effect of artificially
depressing first-quarter tobacco shipments by swamping
distributors shelves, thus making shipments in this year's
first quarter seem unusually strong by comparison.
   "Nevertheless," said Mr. Gerstner, "these results also
reflect strong fundamentals, and there is a growing sense of
momentum in the company."
   That momentum may have been reflected lately in the
steadily rising price of RJR's publicly traded bonds. RJR's
two most widely held debentures, the 13.71% pay-in-kind debt
due 2009 and the pay-in-kind debt due 2007, have rallied
several points in the past month, on the strength of
analysts' high expectations for the company's operations and
persistent rumors that RJR may soon buy the bonds back, or
offer some other type of exchange for the debt.
   Covenants require RJR to reset the bonds' interest rates
by a year from now so they trade at par, a requirement that
many analysts agree would be prohibitively expensive at
current prices.
   Yesterday, the 13.71% pay-in-kind debentures due 2009 rose
5/8, or $6.25 for a bond with $1,000 face amount, to close at
81 5/8, on the New York Stock Exchange, while RJR's
pay-in-kind debentures due 2007 rose 3/4 to 68 1/8.
   "They've still got a long way to go," said Alan Snyder of
San Francisco-based Snyder Capital Management, an
investment-management firm that holds some RJR bonds. The
bond prices "are still about 30% or so from where they've got
to be to reset" interest rates.
   Karl von der Heyden, RJR's chief financial officer,
wouldn't comment on what RJR may do to address the reset
requirement, except to say, "We're always looking at all the
options."
   RJR said operating profit in the first quarter jumped 50%
to $602 million from $402 million. The company's operating
profit from tobacco rose 40% to $637 million from $453
million. Operating profit from food rose 18% to $141 million
from $119 million.
   Much of RJR's first-quarter growth in operating profit
came from slashing costs, analysts and RJR executives said.
In the past year, for example, the company has cut its
headquarters work force by more than half, said Mr. von der
Heyden, to fewer than 300 employees from more than 650. In
the first quarter, the cost of maintaining the head office
fell to $24 million from $46 million a year earlier.
   Meanwhile, Mr. von der Heyden said RJR's expenditures on
advertising and marketing rose more than 10% in the period to
more than $700 million. He added, however, that U.S.
consumption of RJR cigarettes fell 3% in the quarter,
continuing a worrisome trend for the No. 2 U.S. cigarette
maker.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amex Seat Is Sold for $136,000
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The American Stock Exchange said that a seat
was sold for $136,000, down $9,000 from the previous sale
April 9.
   Seats currently are quoted at $135,000 bid and $140,000
asked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Yale and Barnard
   Quit Group as U.S.
   Probes Student Aid
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Yale University and Barnard College dropped out of a
college group whose financial-aid setting practices are being
investigated by the U.S. Justice Department.
   The two schools' exit from the "overlap" group came after
government antitrust attorneys declined to give explicit
legal clearance to a meeting of the group last month. At the
meeting, the group compared financial-aid awards to students
admitted to more than one of the group's schools. Before Yale
and Barnard dropped out, overlap included 23 private
Northeastern colleges, including all eight Ivy League
schools.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The overlap practice is under government scrutiny as a
possible form of illegal price-fixing. In past years'
meetings, common admittees' aid awards were adjusted so that
students' tuition, net of financial aid, would be about the
same no matter which school the student chose. The practice
originally was started to keep schools from "bidding" for the
best academic talent among students who needed aid.
   Just why Yale and Barnard dropped out remains unclear, but
their exit is the first tangible sign that colleges under
scrutiny have legal doubts about overlap, which they have
heretofore defended as a way to best serve students. The
government inquiry includes about 55 private schools, and
also focuses on tuition and salary-setting practices.
   Yale, of New Haven, Conn., confirmed its decision to pull
out of overlap and said it remained committed to meeting the
full financial needs of students, irrespective of means. It
declined to comment further.
   Barnard showed up at the overlap meeting at Wellesley
College in suburban Boston, according to officials at other
schools represented there, but left before substantial
discussions about aid took place. Barnard, located in New
York city, declined to comment.
   Robert Durkee, a spokesman for Princeton University, said
Barnard left after a letter from the Justice Department
arrived in Wellesley on March 26 while the meeting was in
progress. The letter emphasized that the department hadn't
given legal clearance for the meeting to take place, although
19 of the schools had asked for such a comfort letter ahead
of time.
   Mr. Durkee said attorneys from the Justice Department met
with several of the schools prior to the meeting, and were
noncommittal on the permissibility of the meeting. In his
opinion, Mr. Durkee said, neither Yale nor Barnard believes
that it has violated any laws but worried they could further
complicate their position by participating in the meeting.
   Recently, the government's investigators have asked
several of the schools, including Princeton, to supply more
data on tuition-setting practices. Mr. Durkee said that the
new request for information, which arrived this month, gives
the schools until May 1 to produce documents and other data
on how tuition was set between 1979 and 1985. The
government's prior requests covered 1985 to the present.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Korea's GNP Grows
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- Despite sluggish exports, South
Korea's gross national product grew an estimated 7.1% in the
first quarter, compared with 6.2% a year earlier, the Bank of
Korea, the central bank, said.
   The recovery in growth was attributed mainly to brisk
investment in production facilities. The central bank
predicted 7% growth in the GNP, the value of the nation's
output of goods and services, for all of 1990, on the
strength of expected brisk investment in production
facilities and active production activities in the
manufacturing sector.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank also said the country's current account showed a
deficit of US$1.1 billion for the first quarter, compared
with a year-earlier surplus of US$1.3 billion. But it said
the current account is expected to post a surplus of US$1.2
billion for 1990, though this would be significantly narrowed
from a 1989 surplus of US$5.1 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   RTC Mulls Plan
   To Sell Property
   At Big Discounts
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Resolution Trust Corp. is considering a
plan to reduce prices of real estate the government has
repossessed and is having trouble selling.
   In a signal that it's having a tough time selling the
property, the thrift bailout agency said in a meeting
yesterday that it may slash prices below appraised values
more than originally planned. Its real-estate portfolio may
eventually total as much as $100 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   RTC Chairman William Seidman compared the proposed policy
to a department store markdown, calling it the "Filene's
basement plan." Under the plan, if a property doesn't sell
after six months, the RTC could reduce the price to 15% below
the price set by private appraisers. After three more months
without a sale, the price could be reduced 5% more. After
that time, the property would be reappraised. For residential
property, the first markdown could occur after four months.
   "It's costing us every day because we are not making the
sales that we could be making," said Mr. Seidman. The RTC has
taken control of about $16.4 billion in foreclosed real
estate, but it has sold only about $2 billion of that since
the agency was created in August.
   The board delayed for two weeks any decision after Robert
Clarke, comptroller of the currency, said he was concerned
that the policy could hurt other real-estate prices. The
agency will re-examine the proposal during that time.
   The RTC said the proposed policy wouldn't violate a
provision in the savings-and-loan restructuring law that
restricts the RTC from selling real estate below 95% of the
market value in depressed areas. The agency argues that
market value shouldn't be set exclusively by appraisers, but
by what price attracts buyers.
   The RTC may also consider how to guarantee loans for some
private borrowers to finance purchases of RTC real estate,
said David Cooke, executive director of the agency.
   Separately, the RTC tapped Greenwich Capital Markets Inc.,
a Greenwich, Conn., investment banking specialist that deals
in asset-backed securities and mortgages, to act as its
adviser in setting policies for securitizing mortgages and
loans held by the RTC thrifts. In addition to the $250,000
policy contract, Greenwich will launch a pilot project to
bundle some RTC assets to be sold in blocks. The amount of
that contract will depend on the extent of the assets in the
securitization program.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dutch Industrial Output Falls
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   AMSTERDAM -- Dutch industrial production declined a
seasonally adjusted 1% in February from the month earlier,
according to the Dutch Central Bureau of Statistics, or CBS.
   In addition, the CBS reported that January's industrial
production was also down 1% from December.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first two months of the year, industrial
production was 3% lower than a year earlier, the CBS said.
   The decline was led by the chemical, the housing, and the
construction industries. At the same time, the metals, paper
and graphics industries all posted gains.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GE Unit Gets Jet Engine Job
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   GE MDEST F.ABI
</CO>
<LP>
   EVENDALE, Ohio -- The aircraft engines unit of General
Electric Co., Fairfield, Conn., said Emirates Airlines, the
state airline of Dubai, plans to buy $60 million of GE
engines to power three new Airbus Industrie A-310-300
airplanes. The planes made by the European aircraft
consortium will be delivered in 1992 and 1993.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Minerals' Name
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IGL
</CO>
<LP>
   NORTHBROOK, Ill. -- International Minerals &amp; Chemical
Corp. said it will ask shareholders at a special meeting June
14 to approve a change in the company's name to Imcera.
   The company said its current name "no longer describes
what we do. We've changed from a commodity chemical producer
to a builder of technology businesses in human and animal
health care and specialty chemicals."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Weyenberg Shoe Manufacturing Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   WEYS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   WEYENBERG SHOE MANUFACTURING Co. declared a 2-for-1 stock
split and raised its quarterly 20%. The Milwaukee shoe
concern increased its dividend to 15 cents a share from 12.5
cents, on a postsplit basis. Both the split and dividend are
payable July 2 to stock of record June 1. The company has
about 822,158 common shares outstanding. Separately,
shareholders at the annual meeting approved an amendment that
changes the name of the company to Weyco Group Inc. A
spokesman said the old name doesn't reflect its current
business, which involves "less manufacturing and more
importing" of shoes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Kaman Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   KAMNA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   KAMAN CORP. (Bloomfield, Conn.) -- Harvey S. Levenson, 49
years old, was named president and chief operating officer of
this aerospace defense contractor. As president he succeeds
Charles H. Kaman, 70, who continues as chairman and chief
executive officer. The title of chief operating officer is
new. Mr. Levenson was most recently senior vice president,
chief financial officer and chief administrative officer. The
company didn't name a new chief financial officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Mercury Capri Is Priced
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Ford Motor Co. said the base price of its new
Mercury Capri convertible, which is to go on sale this
summer, will be $12,588, and that of the high-performance
Capri XR2, with a 132-horsepower, turbocharged engine, will
be $15,522.
   The Capri is expected to compete with cars such as the
highly successful Mazda Miata, which was introduced last
year. Market research indicates that Capri buyers will be 25
to 35 years old, and that many will be first-time buyers, a
Ford official said, predicting the car will sell particularly
well on the West Coast and East Coast and in metropolitan
areas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Oil Imports Increase
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Crude-oil imports to Japan in March rose at an
annual rate of 3.8% to 123.1 million barrels, the Ministry of
International Trade and Industry said.
   The imports also rose 1.5% from February.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Oil-products sales in March fell 1% to 126.4 million
barrels, compared with a year earlier. Inventories rose 6.6%
to 71 million barrels, and production increased 7.9% to 101.6
million barrels.
   The effect of Japan's unusually warm winter could be seen
in kerosene sales, which fell 14% from March 1989 levels to
18.8 million barrels.
   Vehicle fuels showed the best sales increase in the month,
up 5.4% at 23.6 million barrels. Sales of naphtha and gasoil
each rose 4.9%. Sales of other products, including fuel oil
and jet fuel, declined.
   Product exports from Japan continued to climb in March, as
the government held to its refinery liberalization policy.
These exports more than tripled to 3.4 million barrels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GDP in Malaysia Estimated
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -- Undercutting a rosier government
forecast, the Malaysian Institute of Economic Research
predicted the nation's gross domestic product will grow 7.8%
in 1990 but the government-assisted, structurally independent
institute cautioned that building inflation will force
long-term interest rates higher.
   The assessment jibes more closely with the views of
private analysts and economists than Bank Negara's annual
report released in March. The institute's GDP forecast also
represents a substantial deceleration from the 8.5% rate in
1989 and is more modest than the central bank's forecast of
8.3%. It estimated the inflation rate this year will hit 5%,
exceeding Bank Negara's forecast of a 4% rise in the consumer
price index, and topping by far the 1989 increase of 2.8%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Amca International Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AIL CP
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMCA INTERNATIONAL Ltd. shareholders at the annual meeting
approved a 1-for-5 consolidation of common shares and
changing the name of the diversified industrial company to
United Dominion Industries Ltd., both effective June 4.
Following the consolidation, the Charlotte, N.C., company
will have about 27 million common shares outstanding. AMCA is
55.4%-held by Canadian Pacific Ltd. a Montreal-based resource
and transportation company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Finishes Nearly 1 1/2 Yen Higher,
   But Slips Against the Deutsche Mark
   ----
   By John Bader
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN CANDA EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar ended nearly 1 1/2 yen higher but
fell slightly against the Deutsche mark against a background
of heavy sales of yen for marks.
   A sense that the market overdid the Japanese currency's
recent runup against the German mark added impetus to yen
sales and highlighted the weakness of the yen in the absence
of fundamental changes in Japanese monetary policy, traders
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The yen was further weakened by news that Moody's Investor
Service Inc. may downgrade credit ratings of two large
Japanese banks, Fuji Bank Ltd. and Dai-Ichi Kangyo Ltd.,
participants said.
   The U.S. currency remained trapped in a tight band against
its West German counterpart on disappointment that the dollar
once again failed to break 1.70 marks after a strong report
on U.S. durable goods orders for March, said Michael Guarino,
vice president and chief dealer at Algemene Bank N.V. in New
York.
   March durable goods orders were up 6.7%, a much sharper
gain than the generally expected 2.3% increase.
   The rise was largely attributed to a 21% surge in
transportation sector orders, and this diluted the
announcement's impact, said Kevin Weir, a vice president of
corporate foreign exchange at Lloyd's Bank in New York.
Excluding transportation, March orders were up 2.0%.
   In addition, reports of poor March sales by major U.S.
auto makers contributed to the perception of a mixed economic
performance last month, Mr. Weir said, putting a damper on
dollar interest.
   Meanwhile, the mark also was helped by purchases of the
German currency for yen, Mr. Guarino said. The mark ended the
New York day at 93.598 yen, up from 92.96 yen at the close of
Tokyo trading and 92.70 yen in New York late Monday.
   One potential source of dollar strength against the mark
was negated by President Bush's decision not to slap the
Soviet Union with sanctions for its economic embargo of
Lithuania, several traders said.
   The market had been anticipating a move to the U.S. unit
as a safe-haven currency in the event of sanctions, said Mark
Morris, a corporate foreign-exchange dealer at National
Westminster Bank in New York.
   In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was quoted
at 1.6980 marks, down from 1.6995 marks late Monday, and at
158.93 yen, sharply higher than 157.60 yen late Monday.
Sterling was quoted $1.6343, slightly below $1.6356 Monday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was quoted
at 158.92 yen, up from Tuesday's Tokyo close of 158.15 yen.
Meanwhile, the dollar was trading at about 1.6940 marks.
   "People are happy with their 50 or 60 point (trading)
bands" and are unwilling to stake large positions either way,
said George de Luna, a vice president at Creditanstalt
Bankverein in New York.
   In the case of the yen, participants said the market is
still waiting for the Bank of Japan and the Ministry of
Finance to construct a cohesive plan to support the currency.
The centerpiece of that plan would have to be a rise in the
Japanese discount rate from the current 5.25%.
   But the market isn't banking on that happening soon, said
Algemene's Mr. Guarino, who called statements earlier
yesterday by Bank of Japan Gov. Yasushi Mieno expressing
confidence in the Group of Seven's intervention policy as
"more jaw-boning."
   Similarly, more news about the effects of monetary union
between the Germanys is needed before the dollar breaks new
territory against the mark, participants said.
   "We know about what bad news there is about the mark, and
now we need to know what good news there will be," Mr.
Guarino said. He and Lloyd's Mr. Weir said the market is
still confident the Bundesbank can control any inflation that
results from monetary union, chiefly by raising West German
interest rates.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery dropped $3 to $375.90 an ounce. Estimated volume was
a moderate three million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Wednesday, gold was quoted at $375.65 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Cooper Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CBE
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   COOPER INDUSTRIES Inc. shareholders approved increasing
the company's authorized $8 convertible exchangeable
preferred stock, making possible a 5-for-1 split of the
shares. Cooper, a Houston-based maker of electrical products,
tools, hardware, automotive products, and petroleum and
industrial equipment, said the holders approved increasing
the authorized preferred stock to 36,197,499 shares from
9,495,143. The split is effective May 4 to stock of record
May 25. The shareholders also approved creating a new class
of 10 million shares of $2 preferred stock.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   COOPER INDUSTRIES Inc.'s 5-for-1 stock split on preferred
shares is effective May 25 to stock of record May 4. In
yesterday's edition the dates were transposed.
   (WSJ April 26, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Trade Gap Narrows
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France's seasonally adjusted foreign trade
deficit narrowed to a provisional 858 million francs ($150
million) in March from a revised February deficit of 1.08
billion francs, the national customs office said.
   The February deficit previously had been reported by the
customs office as 961 million francs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The March deficit figure was sharply narrower than the two
billion francs predicted by analysts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   BSD Bancorp
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BSD
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BSD Bancorp increased its semiannual dividend by 60%, to
eight cents a share from five cents. The dividend is payable
May 18 to stock of record May 4. The San Diego bank holding
company also said first-quarter net rose 34%, to $1 million,
or 27 cents a share, from $750,000, or 21 cents a share, a
year ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   GF Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GFB WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   GF Corp. (Youngstown, Ohio) -- Ronald W. Myers, previously
vice president of finance, was named president and chief
executive officer of the maker of office furniture. Mr. Myers
succeeds Ronald R. Anderson, who remains chairman. Last week,
GF and its GF Furniture Systems Inc. unit filed for
protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code. The company said the appointment of Mr.
Myers was necessary to obtain $5 million in new borrowing to
resume full production of office furniture in several
manufacturing facilities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Slattery Group Tender Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GTY SGIB
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Slattery Group Inc. said 865,064 common shares
had been tendered under its offer to purchase shares
outstanding at $30 each; the offer expired Monday.
   Getty Petroleum Corp., Jericho, N.Y., which prior to the
offer owned about 40% of the common shares of Slattery,
agreed not to tender any shares under the offer. Excluding
Getty's stake, about 99% of the shares outstanding have been
tendered.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Slattery last year sold its construction subsidiary. Its
remaining assets consist of investments and contingent assets
and liabilities that mightn't be settled for several years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Dreams of Fields
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   The firing of the Pentagon's head of research is playing
as a case of Bush Administration "ideologues" purging a
lonely hero of U.S. "competitiveness." What we see instead is
a good man who fell in with the wrong crowd and became
confused about the real purpose of defense research.
   Craig Fields, director of the $1.1 billion Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), was transferred
last week after his latest spat with Deputy Secretary of
Defense Donald Atwood. While the trigger was ostensibly one
controversial investment, the dispute actually goes to the
heart of the debate about U.S. "industrial policy." Somewhere
during his 16-year career, Mr. Fields joined the crowd that
believes that a main Pentagon purpose is to nurture certain
U.S. commercial interests. Since this is neither Bush policy
nor in the American tradition, Mr. Fields was bound to lose.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That said, Mr. Fields has done an enormous amount of good
in an underappreciated area of U.S. defense-technology
research. His judgment delivered seed money for such
high-risk technologies as artificial intelligence (computers
that perform tasks analogous to human intelligence),
parallel-processing computers and semiconductors that use
gallium arsenide instead of silicon (and promise faster
processing speeds as well as protection against nuclear-blast
radiation). He also financed the ideas of Carver Mead, the
Caltech scientist and guru of America's computer industry.
   Yet in the past year or so, Mr. Fields had begun to have
larger dreams for DARPA. He became a favorite of those on
Capitol Hill and in U.S. industry who sought an expanded
"commercial DARPA" for private industry. It wasn't enough to
boost futuristic technologies that couldn't find private
financing. He wanted the government to subsidize the U.S.
electronics industry -- for example, the $100 million subsidy
for Sematech, the federal computer-chip concern, and
high-definition TV.
   In a letter last August to the planners at the Commerce
Department, Mr. Fields more or less endorsed a Japan-style
industrial policy for the U.S. "We need a national religious
conversion," he wrote, because "the American way" was no
longer good enough against the planners of East Asia. He also
took a swipe at "highly placed individuals who think nothing
is wrong," presumably senior White House aides who still
believe in such notions as free markets.
   Now, we understand that the line between "seed money" and
industrial policy can be muddy. The national defense is a
common good that requires the collective effort marshaled by
government. Since technology is critical to American defense,
it makes sense for the Pentagon to spend liberally on R&amp;D.
Some technologies are so speculative that the private sector
is reluctant to support them. Even as total defense spending
declines, R&amp;D spending should increase, as a hedge against
future uncertainty.
   Yet the government crosses the line when it undertakes the
wholesale subsidy of industry. We're still waiting to hear
why Sematech is needed in a world with dozens of
computer-chip makers. High-definition display screens may
have their defense uses, but that doesn't mean the feds
should get into the home-TV business.
   The "commercial DARPA" proposed by Senator John Glenn
would undermine precisely the kind of far-out but promising
defense research that Mr. Fields spent his career supporting.
Pentagon research spending would become another political
honey pot micromanaged by Congress. Lobbyists for existing
industry would defeat the future every time.
   In fact, just yesterday 11 Members of Congress fired off a
letter demanding that Mr. Fields be reinstated. The entire
industrial-policy crowd signed up -- Reps. Mel Levine, Dick
Gephardt, Don Ritter, Helen Bentley, Ed Markey, and Senators
Al Gore and John Heinz.
   Mr. Fields has also seemed unduly worried about Japan. In
a world where information travels at lightning speed, it
isn't possible for Americans to lead in every technology.
Instead of trying to make everything at home, a better (and
more plausible) national-security strategy is to share
technology with the likes of Japan. If the Japanese steal a
lead in gallium arsenide or ceramics, it makes more sense to
share than to duplicate. In any case, paranoia sends exactly
the wrong message.
   We'd like to see Mr. Fields find some spot at the
Pentagon, because his defense dreams have served his country
well. It's his larger dreams we worry about, just as we
continue to worry about the people who want to make the
private economy's best minds partners with the same people
who helped the S&amp;L industry become what it is today.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Swiss Wholesale Prices Increase
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BERN -- Switzerland's wholesale prices rose 0.6% in March
from February, and were up 2.0% from March a year earlier,
the federal government reported.
   In February, Swiss wholesale prices increased 0.2% on a
month-to-month basis, but climbed 2.3% from the year-earlier
period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The government's wholesale price index stood at 183.1 in
March.
   Consumer goods led the increase in wholesale prices in
March, climbing 1.1% from February, and increasing 3.7% on a
year-to-year basis. Raw materials and semi-finished goods
rose 0.6% from February, but were up 1.1% from March a year
earlier. Energy prices, however, fell 0.6% from February, but
climbed 2.0% on a year-to-year basis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   German Service Balance
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- The deficit in the West German service
balance is likely to shrink in the coming years, slowing down
the expected reduction in the country's current account
surplus, the Deutsche Bundesbank said in its April monthly
report.
   The service balance consists of income and expenses from
capital flow, tourism, and other payments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Indicator of Japan's Economy
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The leading indicator of Japan's economy
increased to 50, the so-called boom-or-bust line, in
February, the latest reporting month, and government
officials predicted that the economy will continue to expand.
   The Economic Planning Agency, which announced the
indicator, considers a reading above the line of 50 as a sign
of future economic expansion, and a reading below that level
as an indication of possible contraction ahead.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The February reading represented a pick-up from a revised
40.9 in January.
   Earlier in the day, EPA Director-General Hideyuki Aizawa
reported to the cabinet that Japan's economy continues to
expand.
   Mr. Aizawa's April report meant that the country's economy
has continued to expand for 41 months in a row, almost
matching the second-longest, post-war expansion of 42 months,
which was set between June 1958 and December 1961.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Socialism Takes Flight
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Outside of a few redoubts such as North Korea and the
Chinese party headquarters, state-run industries are a
concept in retreat these days. But in retreat to where? To
the high councils of California] Air fares among major cities
in the state, including the capital of Sacramento, have risen
dramatically in recent months. Naturally, legislators are
upset. But instead of privatizing airports and piercing the
lock that existing carriers have on gates, State Senator Art
Torres has proposed formation of a state airline to --
believe it or not -- compete and hold prices down. In 1990,
some folks are still up in the clouds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Cincinnati Milacron Gives Dan Meyer
   Vote of Confidence -- and a Huge Task
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   CMZ WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Daniel J. Meyer faces a difficult, dual
task: re-establishing Cincinnati Milacron Inc. as a
world-class competitor in the cutthroat machine tool business
while restoring its traditional level of profitability.
   Mr. Meyer, Milacron's president and chief operating
officer since 1987, yesterday was named to the additional
post of chief executive officer of the maker of machine
tools, plastics machinery and robots. The 53-year-old Mr.
Meyer succeeds James A.D. Geier, 64, who will continue as
chairman until year end, when he retires.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Meyer becomes the first chief executive who isn't a
member of the Geier family since Frederick A. Geier,
grandfather of the current chairman, bought control of the
concern nearly a century ago. All of the company's operations
will continue to report to Mr. Meyer, who was widely expected
to get the post. Directors didn't name anyone to fill Mr.
Meyer's old title of chief operating officer.
   Both competitors and analysts respect the depth of
manufacturing technology Milacron's developed under the
leadership of the retiring Mr. Geier, who headed the company
since 1970. He is credited with moving Milacron, the nation's
largest machine tool concern, into plastics machinery, robots
and electronic controls.
   But in the early 1980s Milacron got ahead of the market.
Milacron's big beige machine tools attended only by its
canary yellow robots, all controlled by computers, were the
hit of many a trade show. Few companies, however, were
willing to lay out $10 million or $20 million for the
flexible manufacturing systems in a bet that the new
technology would work.
   Meanwhile, aggressive Japanese producers -- aided by a low
value on the yen -- stole away sales. Foreign producers, led
by the Japanese, seized half of the U.S. market for machine
tools, and beat out Milacron in many foreign countries as
well. Profits plummeted.
   Mr. Meyer, a home handyman, has been putting together an
organization to fix Milacron's problems. Analysts say his
financial background already is creating a more
profit-oriented company, though results still are
unsatisfactory. He served as chief financial officer from
1977 to 1987, and was elected to the board in 1985.
   "He has to create a fine balance between the bottom line
and a commitment to advanced technology," says Eli
Lustgarten, machinery analyst with PaineWebber Inc. At the
same time, he's changing the corporate culture from "a very
paternalistic company" into a focus on profits, which takes
time, says Mr. Lustgarten.
   Milacron's sales in each of the past two years were just
over $850 million, 9% below the nearly $935 million in 1981.
And the company hasn't earned a satisfactory profit since the
1982 recession. Net income last year was $17.4 million, or 70
cents a share, and a third of that came from an extraordinary
tax credit.
   Yesterday the company reported first-quarter net income of
$2.5 million, or 10 cents a share, compared with year-earlier
profit from continuing operations of $6.2 million, or 26
cents a share. Net for the 1989 quarter, including
discontinued operations and a tax credit, was $10 million, or
41 cents a share.
   Sales rose slightly to $190.6 million from $188.3 million
a year earlier. The company had lower shipments of plastic
injection molding machines and other higher-margin products,
officials said, but they expect improved profits in the
second half.
   Milacron is moving to a focus factory approach, where each
factory specializes in one type of machine, such as lathes or
machining centers. The change from a bureaucratic, highly
centralized organization responsible for all types of machine
tools and robots is intended to increase efficiency and to
bring the people who design and manufacture the machines into
closer contact with the buyer.
   "Dan Meyer is the architect of Milacron's restructuring,
and his promotion is a vote of confidence," says
PaineWebber's Mr. Lustgarten.
   One of Mr. Meyer's reforms was pushing much of the R&amp;D
work, including that for computerized advanced manufacturing
systems, out into the focus factories. Each factory is a
profit center, which exerts discipline on product development
spending.
   The next phase for Milacron is a redesign of many machines
to make them more efficient to manufacture, Mr. Meyer says.
He cites an $80,000 vertical machining center produced by
Milacron's British unit as an illustration of the new
generation of "world competitive machines" that will
recapture market share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   The Horse Could Learn to Talk
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   You may be unnecessarily alarmist ("Tiananmen in Vilnius?"
editorial, March 27), as Mikhail Gorbachev has backed down on
other issues where he formerly vowed he would never retreat.
Still, the Lithuanians might be better off to try for a
face-saving compromise, such as a one-year postponement of
independence.
   Offering to keep Soviet military bases, and join the
Warsaw Pact, would make sense. Also, the Russian province of
Kaliningrad (Konigsberg), formerly the north half of German
East Prussia, would need guarantees of free transit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lithuania, although 80% Lithuanian, has some minorities of
Byelorussians, Poles, Russians, etc. who deserve guarantees
of fair treatment. It would be reasonable to conduct
plebiscites in the far south and east, to readjust boundaries
in contiguous areas containing majorities of Byelorussians or
Poles, in the slice of territory, formerly Polish, that was
added to Lithuania by Stalin after World War II.
   Other Soviet republics have similar, but worse, problems
of minorities within minorities, due to misdrawing of
boundaries, internal migration (forced and voluntary), and
Stalin's divide-and-rule policies. Moldavia, for instance
(formerly part of Romania) contains a large Ukrainian
minority, while there are Moldavians in some adjacent
Ukrainian provinces. Georgia contains Abkhazians and
Ossetians in "autonomous provinces." Kazakhstan has only 50%
Kazakhs, due to large-scale resettlement of Russians into its
western part. Within the Russian republic, there are
"autonomous" republics, provinces and districts of many
nationalities, such as Tatars, Karelians (near Finland) and
Eskimo-related groups in the far north.
   Unscrambling this situation and redrawing boundaries would
test the wisdom of Solomon, and many Russians rightly fear
that they would have to flee as refugees if the situation got
nasty.
   A postponement by Lithuania would save face but still give
many options. The reformers in the Soviet Parliament could
propose orderly secession procedures. Secessionists in
Central Asia or Ukraine could escalate their demands, making
it easy for the Baltic republics to slip quietly away. The
Soviet army could collapse, like the Austro-Hungarian army in
1918 at the end of World War I, with soldiers of different
nationalities straggling back to their home provinces.
   As in the ancient story of the prisoner who escaped
execution by convincing the king that he could teach the
king's horse to talk -- "The king could die, I could die, the
horse could die -- or the horse could learn to talk."
   Glenn T. Wilson
   Murfreesboro, Tenn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AUTOMOBILES
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BMW GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Here's a Little Secret
   On Secret-Agent Cars
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   IT'S TEMPTING enough: Spend $2 a minute on the
1-900-HOT-CARS line and get names of auctions where Ferraris
and Porsches -- repossessed, seized in drug raids or driven
by "government agents" -- can be had for "as little as $100."
   If it sounds too good to be true, it is. The majority of
vehicles sold at government and many private auctions are
dumpy domestic sedans, not the exotica whizzing around on
Miami Vice reruns. A federal auction in Michigan recently
mentioned on the 900-service did sell cars used by government
agents, but they were 1987 Chevrolet Celebrities and 1986
Plymouth Reliants used by the FBI, hardly the stuff of 007.
   On the rare occasion when something savory shows up, like
a low-mileage BMW 735i, it will go for $37,000, not $100. So
which cars cost $100? According to auctioneers, they're
usually weary wagons with lots of dents and miles.
   Auctioneers say they aren't connected with the 900
service, and some say they dislike it. That's because
consumers blame the auctioneers, not the phone service, when
"hot cars" at cheap prices don't materialize. "The whole idea
is defrauding people who come thinking they'll get a Ferrari
for $100," asserts Jack Ostoin, owner of J&amp;D Recovery &amp; Auto
Auction of Detroit. "That never happens."
   A recent call to get Pennsylvania auction dates lasted
nine minutes and cost $18. Dean Vlahos, president of U.S.
Sales Corp., which runs the Hot Cars line, says people can
avoid the toll with a $99 lifetime membership.
   Mr. Vlahos says Ferraris have been sold at these auctions,
but that people "have to use a little common sense" about
what cars will sell cheaply.
   He says his company has a right to air information about
the auctions because it's publicly available. That's the rub:
People can find out about the auctions -- a lot more cheaply
-- in newspapers or through the Yellow Pages.
                                                                                                       

   A Word to the Wise:
   Go Beyond the Guide
                                                                                                       

   CAR PRICING guides, which direct buyers in their
bargaining, are proliferating. But going strictly by the
books, which compare the difference between dealer invoice
costs and retail sticker prices, doesn't guarantee a good
deal.
   "Usually guys who come armed with information from those
services and make an offer on that basis end up paying more,"
says Ron Salhany, a Port Richey, Fla., Buick dealer.
   While guides such as the Edmund's car price books or
Changing Times magazine's automotive annual take pains to be
accurate, prices can change suddenly. And the guides don't
deal with the ever-fluctuating rebates and option-package
discounts.
   The guides also don't direct buyers to aim for a break on
fixed dealer costs such as destination or advertising
charges. The guides also don't take into account the 3%
profit for domestic dealers built into invoice prices -- a
margin that can be negotiable.
   The guides are valuable in helping people approximate what
they should pay for a car.
   One guide even suggests a target price. "The target price
we put in our book is a good price," says Peter S. Levy,
president of IntelliChoice Inc., a San Jose, Calif.,
publisher of price books. "But," he adds, "anybody can get a
better price if they are savvy negotiators."
                                                                                                       

   Car Companies Attempt
   To Sort Out Recycling
                                                                                                       

   RECYCLABLE CARS are becoming a goal, but they are probably
years away.
   Right now there isn't much financial incentive to reuse
car materials, but penalties for not doing so may be down the
road. So car makers are trying to think ahead.
   The biggest problem involves the plethora of materials
used to build cars. Autos once were made of glass, steel,
rubber and plastic, which were easy to separate for
recycling. Now, even midsized cars can contain 250 pounds of
plastic alone, of which there may be 20 varieties.
   As a result, modern cars are a recycling nightmare, with
only about 60% of their materials recoverable. To improve
that ratio, BMW, which has felt political pressure from
German environmentalists, has begun designing cars so they
are as easy to disassemble as they are to build.
   "We can't use robots or machines," says Christoph Huss,
BMW's product information manager in the U.S. "It's very
difficult get to all of the parts."
   BMW doesn't expect full-scale recycling within 15 years.
The toughest obstacle: getting all auto makers to use only
certain materials for certain parts in order to simplify
reclamation.
   General Motors Corp., meanwhile, says a chemical
decomposition method formerly used for old tires may be the
key to recycling the huge plastic panels used on its Lumina
APV, Trans Sport and Silhouette minivans.
                                                                                                       

   More Dealers Count On
   `Almost New' Fleet Cars
                                                                                                       

   BUYERS LOOKING for good prices on 1990 models may soon
find them -- on used-car lots.
   Big rental fleets are already shipping some of this year's
models off to dealer auctions now that snowbirds are
returning the cars in places like Florida and Arizona. More
important, dealers are eagerly snapping them up, figuring
they'll sell well at a time when new cars aren't moving.
   Late-model used fleet cars can have 20,000 or more miles
on them, but can cost about $3,000 less than brand new
models.
   "So far this year it seems that everybody decided all they
could buy are rental cars for their used-car lots," says Greg
Gehman, general manager of the Manheim (Pa.) Auto Auction.
"Demand just turned on like a faucet."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Icahn Plan for USX Faces Steely Scrutiny
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein and Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   X
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   As USX shareholders prepare to vote on the company's
future, they would do well to keep in mind what investor Carl
Icahn has said about his grand plan.
   "It's not magic," Mr. Icahn said in a recent newspaper
advertisement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plan, of course, is for USX to spin off at least 80%
of its steel assets into a new and separate corporate entity.
The rest -- essentially USX's Marathon Oil subsidiary --
would trade in the market at $39 a share, Mr. Icahn says,
while the newly minted steel company would trade at $9.
   Voila] By this reasoning, without the company producing a
single additional barrel of oil or ton of steel, shareholders
would reap more than a 45% gain from yesterday's closing
price of 32 3/4.
   Mr. Icahn's premise -- that his plan isn't magic but is
"simple and workable" -- will be the central issue in the May
7 nonbinding shareholder vote on whether or not to recommend
a spinoff.
   Although Mr. Icahn's 13.3% stake makes him the biggest
holder of the Pittsburgh company, analysts say he faces an
uphill battle to win a majority of votes. Mr. Icahn's
calculations are being challenged by analysts, as well as by
USX management. And in taking on USX, he is battling a
company that has presided over a massive, painful
restructuring which has begun to pay off with improving
financial results.
   "I don't think Icahn has been clear enough about how the
company is worth $48 a share," says a portfolio manager for a
big institutional investor in USX. He says he plans to stick
by Charles Corry, chairman of USX, who opposes a spinoff at
least for now.
   Mr. Icahn, who once launched an abortive bid for USX and
since then has continued to loom large as a potential raider,
has yet to answer one other question.
   "If he thinks it's worth so much, why doesn't he bid to
buy the company?" says Bryan Jacoboski, a PaineWebber
analyst. "I think Icahn has another agenda." It is, Mr.
Jacoboski says, to pressure USX into repurchasing Mr. Icahn's
shares at the market price.
   Mr. Icahn, who has owned USX stock since 1986, says this
view is "absolutely incorrect," adding that he continues to
believe USX is "greatly undervalued." With respect to Mr.
Jacoboski's pointed question, Mr. Icahn says: "I would be
happy to pay $48 a share for the whole company, but on an
unfriendly basis today, I couldn't get $10 billion in
financing, and on a friendly basis, while I believe I could
get financing, it's my understanding the company wouldn't
accept a bid."
   Mr. Icahn's basic premise is that securities analysts who
specialize in either oil or steel tend to be ignorant of each
other's areas of expertise. The result, he says, is a poorly
understood company, which is shunned by Wall Street and thus
by investors generally.
   Part of Mr. Icahn's evidence is contained in a letter to
shareholders, dated April 18. The letter depicts the stock
performance since Dec. 1, 1987, of six oil companies, two
steel companies and USX. USX finishes last. "Clearly," the
letter states, "USX has failed to keep pace with the market
price increases recorded by either pure oil or steel
companies."
   But is this math or magic? Suppose, for instance, one
studies the same nine stocks from Aug. 1, 1986 -- just before
it was reported that Mr. Icahn was buying USX stock -- to the
present. Over that period, USX has finished fifth out of
nine. In other words, USX is average -- just what one might
expect from a company that is part oil, part steel.
   Mr. Icahn replies: "The real issue is that we
unquestionably believe that the company is worth more,
split." He adds: "If the company had extra money that it
didn't wish to invest in steel, why couldn't that money have
been given to shareholders? Why should the company make a
decision to go into another business without consulting
shareholders?"
   In 1982, U.S. Steel, as it was then called, bought
Marathon to smooth out the flow of cash from steel, which it
recognized as a capital-draining and labor intensive
business, vulnerable to slumps.
   In fact, in the years following the $5.9 billion
acquisition, the steel industry suffered one of its worst
recessions. But USX fared better than its rivals, largely
because Marathon sustained it as the steel side closed down
plants and suffered a strike. Similarly, Marathon benefited
from steel: Its own earnings were sheltered from taxes by the
tax-loss carry-forwards accumulated in the steel business.
   Since March 12, 1982 -- the day after Marathon agreed to
be acquired -- USX stock has risen 40%, while most steel
stocks have fallen. Bethlehem, for instance, has fallen to 17
5/8 from 20. USX has also done better than most steel
companies at maintaining and ultimately increasing dividends.
   "Our shareholders don't have to look that far back to see
some benefits of having two businesses," Mr. Corry says. He
notes that steel operations made more money in 1988 but
slowed in 1989 when oil picked up momentum.
   Mr. Corry has said he's willing to sell anything that
doesn't provide a good return -- perhaps including steel --
but not now, when the industry is again grappling with
weakness in pricing and demand, and steel assets are unlikely
to command a good price. Yesterday, USX reported lower
first-quarter net income but higher pre-tax operating income
when special items were excluded.
   Mr. Icahn, of course, is not so patient. He contends that
Marathon, if it traded alone, would be worth $39 a share --
almost 20% more than the entire company trades for today.
   In other words, if USX were to vaporize from its books the
assets of the nation's largest steelmaker, its stock would
immediately go up. Is this plausible?
   Salomon Brothers and PaineWebber say no, both arguing that
Mr. Icahn has grossly overvalued Marathon and USX's steel
assets. The two securities firms say that if a spinoff
occurred, the resulting pair of shares would trade for about
$30.
   "The enormous gap between the two goes far beyond
reasonable people sometimes disagreeing," PaineWebber's Mr.
Jacoboski says.
   Mr. Icahn's numbers are based on estimates by Kurt Wulff,
a longtime oil industry analyst that Mr. Icahn hired. Both
Mr. Jacoboski and Salomon analyst Michelle Galanter Applebaum
say Mr. Wulff errs in relying primarily on USX asset values
rather than on its cash flow.
   "The market for assets changes all the time," Ms. Galanter
Applebaum says. "Cash flow is what people actually pay for."
   Mr. Wulff doesn't dispute that he relies, primarily, on
estimating what a buyer would pay for reserves in the ground.
But he says he also takes cash flow into account, and he
defends his methods.
   Another big, unresolved issue is whether the spinoff would
be tax-free. If it weren't, shareholders might find
themselves paying unanticipated taxes. Robert Willens, a
Shearson Lehman Hutton analyst, says a spinoff must be for a
specific corporate purpose in order to be tax-free. "Merely
increasing the value of the stock isn't in and of itself a
corporate business purpose," he says. Mr. Icahn, however,
says a spinoff could be done on a tax-free basis.
   No one can say for sure what share prices would result if
a spinoff occurred. But whoever is right, if USX spins off
steel it is only the perception of value that will change,
not the intrinsic value, as defined by the cash flow from
operations.
   Mr. Icahn says the two companies, if separate, would both
be better able to raise capital. That contention is open to
question. The real point is that Mr. Icahn continues to force
the company -- as he has for four years -- to think about
spinning off shares instead of about the bottom line.
   ---
   USX
   (NYSE; Symbol: X)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Oil and gas, steel
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Sales: $18.72 billion
   Net income*: $965 million; $3.49 a share
                                                                                                       

   Fourth quarter, Dec. 31, 1989:
   Per-share earnings*: 89 cents vs. 55 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   764,138 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 255.6 million
                                                                                                       

   *Year includes $370 million gain on asset disposal and
$119 million net gain from settlement of lawsuits. Both
quarters include smaller asset-disposal gains.
   Note: Per-share figures are fully diluted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West German CD Sales Soar
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   HAMBURG, West Germany -- West Germans spent a record 3.10
billion marks ($1.82 billion) on records, tapes and compact
disks in 1989, a West German association said.
   The West German Association of Phonograph Economics said
56.9 million CDs were sold, up 46% from 1988. There were 58.1
million cassettes sold and 32.3 million singles sold. The
association didn't say how many LPs were sold in 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   J.P. Morgan's de Las Heras
   To Join Banco Santander
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   JPM WNEWS STD
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- J.P. Morgan &amp; Co.'s head of Latin America,
Gonzalo de Las Heras, resigned to take a senior job at Banco
Santander, Spain's second-largest bank.
   Mr. de Las Heras, 50 years old, will work on the bank's
international strategy, reporting to Chairman Emilio Botin.
In a statement, Mr. de Las Heras said, "I'm excited about the
scope of the projects Santander has asked me to tackle."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Spanish-born Mr. de Las Heras joined Morgan in Madrid
in 1978 and soon rose to head its operations there. After
later moving to New York, Mr. de Las Heras played an
instrumental role in Mexico's initial debt-for-securities
swap arranged by Morgan in 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Santa Fe Pacific
   Plans Two Spinoffs
   By End of the Year
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   SFX SFR
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
RAILROADS (RAI)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Santa Fe Pacific Corp. said it plans to spin
off its real-estate and energy operations to shareholders by
year end, with a target for completion "sometime in the third
quarter."
   Yesterday's disclosure marks the first time the railroad,
natural-resources and real-estate concern has formally
declared it will spin off its energy operation, although such
a move has been widely expected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The news, announced at the company's annual meeting, also
represents a speedup in the timetable for divestiture of the
company's giant real-estate holdings.
   The planned spinoffs are contingent on the company's
refinancing of $780 million in payment-in-kind debentures
issued in a 1988 recapitalization; a spokesman said the
company doesn't expect "any major problems" in arranging the
refinancing. In addition, the transactions are subject to
receipt of regulators' rulings that they can be done on a
tax-free basis.
   In composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday,
Santa Fe shares rose 5/8, to close at $21, on volume of about
821,000 shares.
   Santa Fe's continuing corporate makeover had until last
week been largely stalled by a lingering potential legal
problem: Under a court ruling in an antitrust case, the
company last year was ordered to pay a pipeline joint venture
$750 million. But last week it settled the case for $350
million, clearing the way for further progress in its
restructuring plans.
   In both its real-estate and energy holdings, Santa Fe's
strategy has been to sell minority stakes for cash to pay
down its recapitalization debt, while maintaining the bulk of
the "upside potential" for its shareholders. The company's
stock has for some time traded more on investors' perceptions
of its assets' value than on its operational earnings.
   In December, Santa Fe sold a 20% stake in its Santa Fe
Pacific Realty unit to a limited partnership made up of the
California Public Employees Retirement System and JMB Realty
Corp. The parent has since stressed that the $398 million it
received for that one-fifth stake represented a discounted
price, because the partnership brought needed cash and was an
early investor. The company says it values the realty
operation at $3 billion.
   Until yesterday, the deadline for completing the spinoff
of its remaining realty holdings had been the end of 1991.
The real-estate operation, based in San Francisco, has about
two million acres of developed and undeveloped land in 13
states, and its plans include -- if market conditions permit
-- construction of nearly 27 million square feet of buildings
over the next five years.
   In March, Santa Fe Pacific took its Houston-based Santa Fe
Energy Resources Inc. unit public, selling an 18.3% stake in
the exploration and production concern for $213 million. At
the end of 1989, the company said, the energy operation had
proved reserves of 251 million barrels of oil equivalent,
which includes natural-gas figures. Santa Fe Energy, which
went public at $18.25 a share, closed in composite New York
Stock Exchange trading yesterday at $16, up 1/8.
   After the spinoffs, Santa Fe will comprise the Santa Fe
Railway, with revenue last year of $2.2 billion; a mining
operation that the company has signaled may itself one day be
spun off; and a 44% stake in Santa Fe Pacific Pipeline
Partners, a publicly traded limited partnership. The mining
and pipeline holdings together contributed revenue of $159.8
million last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Double Standard
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   You say in the April 2 Washington Insight column that "the
U.S. administration has declined to recognize Lithuania's
declaration of independence, despite urgent requests from
Vilnius and a 40-year U.S. policy of refusing to recognize
the Soviet annexation of Lithuania and the other Baltic
republics."
   You should note, however, that the U.S. still extends
diplomatic recognition to the representatives of the old
independent republics of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. While
the White House may be hedging its bets on Lithuania,
officially it still considers the Soviet Baltic republics to
be illegally occupied territories that are entitled to full
independence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bradford Trebach
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mobil, Texaco, Shell Report Lower Net;
   Chevron, Phillips Post Gains for Quarter
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   MOB TX RD SC CHV P
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Five major oil companies reported mixed
earnings for the first quarter, with results skewed by
one-time items and higher crude prices.
   An increase in oil prices of $3 to $4 a barrel strongly
boosted exploration and production profits for all five
companies. Higher natural gas prices early in the quarter
also contributed to earnings gains.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Petrochemical profits were down, often sharply, largely
because crude is the main feedstock in chemical processing.
And for the same reason, gasoline refining and marketing
results were generally flat to lower.
   Mobil Corp. reported a 7% drop in net income, while
Chevron Corp.'s profit surged 51%. Texaco Inc. net plunged,
but excluding a year-earlier restructuring gain the company
posted a strong increase. Shell Oil Co., the U.S. subsidiary
of Royal Dutch/Shell Group, said profit sank 44%, though the
decline was less steep excluding a year-earlier gain.
Phillips Petroleum Co. said net climbed 36%, but without
one-time items profit would have dropped sharply.
   Mobil, based in New York, said net income fell to $400
million, or 94 cents a share, from $429 million, or $1.04 a
share. Revenue rose 6.3% to $14.91 billion from $14.02
billion.
   The company said crude oil prices were 25% higher than the
1989 first quarter and natural gas prices were 8% stronger.
As a result, Mobil's exploration and production profit soared
28% to $369 million.
   Chemical earnings plunged to $83 million from $180
million. Aside from higher crude prices, results were also
hurt by weaker chemical prices, which have been sliding since
the 1989 first quarter, Mobil said. The company said,
however, that some chemical prices are starting to firm.
   Chevron posted the strongest quarterly gain and far
exceeded analysts' expectations. The San Francisco company
said net jumped to $473 million, or $1.33 a share, from $313
million, or 91 cents a share. Revenue rose 21% to $9.3
billion from $7.7 billion.
   Like other companies' exploration and production
operations, Chevron's benefited from the higher crude and
natural gas prices. But the company also sold 13% more
natural gas than a year earlier to meet demand from the cold
spell early in the winter.
   Unlike the other major companies reporting yesterday,
Chevron's U.S. gasoline refining and marketing business
posted an earnings increase, to $59 million from $7 million.
And its chemical profit fell just 6%, well below most of its
competitors.
   Texaco said net fell to $328 million, or $1.15 a share,
from the year-earlier $1.46 billion, or $5.91 a share, which
included a gain of $1.19 billion primarily from the sale of
Texaco Canada Inc. Revenue fell 4.7% to $9.16 billion from
$9.61 billion.
   The White Plains, N.Y., company said exploration and
production profit rose 59% to $317 million, reflecting higher
crude and natural gas prices. But Texaco said prices have
weakened substantially this quarter. The company's overall
refining and marketing results were flat at $136 million,
while chemical earnings plunged to $16 million from $96
million.
   Texaco said it boosted its capital spending in the quarter
65% to $592 million, part of a large projected increase for
the full year, the company said.
   Shell, the Houston-based subsidiary of Royal Dutch/Shell
Group, said net decreased to $203 million from $362 million,
which included a $70 million gain from an insurance
settlement. Exploration and production earnings rose 75% to
$173 million while chemical earnings decreased 56% to $98
million.
   The company, which reports its results before its parent
companies, had a $21 million loss from its gasoline refining
and marketing operations compared with profit of $113
million. Shell said higher crude prices reduced its gasoline
margins and freeze-related damage to its refineries hurt
profitability early in the quarter.
   Phillips, Bartlesville, Okla., said net rose to $259
million, or $1.06 a share, from $190 million, or 78 cents a
share. Revenue rose slightly to $3.13 billion from $3.1
billion. Without special items, the latest quarter's earnings
would have been $111 million.
   In the quarter, Phillips had gains totaling $238 million
from an accounting change and a settlement with Iran. It had
a $90 million loss from the sale of an insurance company.
   Phillips also said its earnings include $49 million for
business-interruption insurance related to lost earnings from
the explosion at its Pasadena, Texas, chemical complex.
Phillips's exploration and production profits showed strong
gains, but gasoline refining earnings declined.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, April 24, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 3/16% high, 8 1/8% low, 8 3/16% near
closing bid, 8 3/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.25% 15 to 59 days; 8.20% 60 to 119 days;
8.15% 120 to 179 days; 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.33%
30 days; 8.33% 60 days; 8.33% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.79% one month; 7.84% two
months; 7.87% three months; 7.94% six months; 8.11% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.35% one month; 8.55% three months;
8.65% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.25% 30 days; 8.25% 60 days; 8.27%
90 days; 8.28% 120 days; 8.28% 150 days; 8.28% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 7/16% to 8 5/16% one month; 8
9/16% to 8 7/16% two months; 8 5/8% to 8 1/2% three months; 8
11/16% to 8 9/16% four months; 8 3/4% to 8 5/8% five months;
8 13/16% to 8 11/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 7/16% one month;
8 5/8% three months; 8 13/16% six months; 9 1/8% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
6.25%; Switzerland 11.50%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, April 23, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.78% 13 weeks; 7.91% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.59%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.50%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 9.10%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.79%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   U.S. Car, Truck Sales Dropped 17.7%
   In Mid-April as Big Three Fared Poorly
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C NSANY TOYOY HMC J.MOT J.MZD SBRU J.IZM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Sales of domestically built cars and trucks
plunged 17.7% in mid-April as auto makers posted another
disappointing performance during what should be the heart of
the spring selling season.
   "There's only one word to describe it: tough," said Clay
Lowenfield, general sales manager of a Ford and a Nissan
dealership in El Paso, Texas. Both dealerships saw sales drop
about 25% from year-earlier levels, he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Overall, the 10 companies that build vehicles in the U.S.
sold 306,637 cars, trucks and vans in the April 11-20 period,
down from 372,419 a year earlier. Sales of domestically made
cars fell 19.1% from year-earlier levels, pulling the
seasonally adjusted annual selling pace for the mid-April
period down to 6.6 million cars from a robust 7.9 million
selling rate in mid-April of 1989.
   The Big Three U.S. auto makers all suffered sharp declines
in car and truck sales. The worst numbers came from Chrysler
Corp., which had a 38.8% drop in total vehicle sales. General
Motors Corp.'s total car and truck sales fell 15.5% during
the latest 10 days, while Ford Motor Co.'s car and light
truck sales skidded 19.3%.
   Among Japanese car makers, however, all but one boosted
sales of domestically built vehicles over year-earlier
levels, although that was in part because they are building
more cars in the U.S. than a year earlier. The exception was
Mazda Motor Corp., which saw sales of its two domestically
built vehicles slump 55.7% after consumer incentives expired
April 10.
   Chrysler has been struggling since the end of January,
when it halted a first-time $1,000 rebate offer on its
best-selling minivans. That offer sparked record January
sales for the auto maker. But Chrysler has suffered
double-digit sales declines in almost every 10-day sales
period since then. For mid-April, the No. 3 U.S. auto maker's
domestic truck and van sales fell 33.9% from a year earlier.
That compares with a 15.1% decline in overall domestic truck
sales during the mid-April period. Sales of domestically made
Chrysler cars tumbled 38.4% in the period.
   To stop the slide, Chrysler has reintroduced the sort of
cut-rate financing offers that helped to boost sales a year
ago. Chrysler announced Saturday that it will offer
interest-free loans for as much as two years on many of its
vehicles.
   "The last time that happened, we had people standing in
line to buy cars and trucks," said Donald Warnock, who owns a
Chrysler and a Dodge dealership in New Jersey.
   Chrysler stock was one of the most active in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, with almost 1.1
million shares changing hands. It closed at $15.875,
unchanged.
   At Ford Motor, sales of domestically built cars were down
22.7%, while sales of domestic trucks fell 13.1%. Ford
dealers said they expect the new Escort subcompact, which
goes on sale this week, to help the No. 2 auto maker bolster
its market share. "I'm looking for that to give us a real
shot in the arm," said Fred Ricart, owner of Ricart Ford in
Columbus, Ohio.
   General Motors, meanwhile, outperformed Ford and the
overall market. The No. 1 auto maker's domestic car sales
dropped 18.9%, less than the overall drop in domestic car
sales. GM's domestic truck sales fell 9.6%, but that was
considerably better than the performance of the total
domestic truck market.
   The major Japanese car makers, however, did much better.
Toyota Motor Corp., which has been boosting its U.S. output,
posted a 55.3% increase in sales of its domestically produced
cars. Nissan Motor Corp. boosted sales of its U.S.-built cars
and compact trucks 31.5% in the period.
   Honda Motor Co. posted a 6.7% gain in sales of its
domestic car models. Sales of Mitsubishi Motor Corp.'s
U.S.-made cars rose 63.8%. A year earlier, Mitsubishi was
still boosting production at the Illinois factory it operates
in a joint venture with Chrysler.
   ---
          RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a
                                                                                                       

                               1990        1989        x-%
                            Apr. 11-20  Apr. 11-20     Chg.
                                                                                                       

 GM total vehicles ......... 144,502      171,013    - 15.5
   Domestic car ............  89,721      110,662    - 18.9
   Imported car ............   5,509        5,586    -  1.4
     Total car .............  95,230      116,248    - 18.1
   Domestic truck ..........  49,244       54,495    -  9.6
   Imported truck ..........      28          270    - 89.6
     Total truck ...........  49,272       54,765    - 10.0
                                                                                                       

 FORD total vehicles ....... 100,388      124,338    - 19.3
   Domestic car ............  58,107       75,131    - 22.7
   Imported car ............   1,759        2,551    - 31.0
     Total car .............  59,866       77,682    - 22.9
   Domestic truck ..........  40,522       46,656    - 13.1

 CHRYSLER total veh ........  40,931       66,876    - 38.8
   Domestic car ............  18,692       30,368    - 38.4
   Imported car ............   1,484        4,480    - 66.9
     Total car .............  20,176       34,848    - 42.1
   Domestic truck ..........  20,393       30,866    - 33.9
   Imported truck ..........     362        1,162    - 68.8
     Total truck ...........  20,755       32,028    - 35.2
                                                                                                       

 HONDA domestic car ........  12,084       11,323    +  6.7
                                                                                                       

 TOYOTA domestic car .......   9,280        5,977    + 55.3
                                                                                                       

 NISSAN total vehicles .....   6,517        4,955    + 31.5
   Domestic car ............   2,323        1,939    + 19.8
   Domestic truck ..........   4,194        3,016    + 39.1
                                                                                                       

 MAZDA domestic car ........     571        1,288    - 55.7
                                                                                                       

 MITSUBISHI-c ..............   1,143          698    + 63.8
                                                                                                       

 SUBARU domestic car .......     108            0      ...
                                                                                                       

 ISUZU domestic truck ......     255            0      ...
                                                                                                       

 Total cars ................ 200,781      250,003    - 19.7
   Domestic ................ 192,029      237,386    - 19.1
   Imported ................   8,752       12,617    - 30.6
                                                                                                       

 Total trucks .............. 114,998      136,465    - 15.7
   Domestic ................ 114,608      135,033    - 15.1
   Imported ................     390        1,432    - 72.8
                                                                                                       

 Total domestic veh ........ 306,637      372,419    - 17.7
                                                                                                       

 Total vehicles ............ 315,779      386,468    - 18.3
                                                                                                       

   a-Totals include only vehicle sales reported in the
period.
   c-Domestic car
   x-There were nine selling days in the most recent period
and nine a year earlier. Percentage differences based on
daily sales rate rather than sales volume.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   House Gag Rule
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The same congressional leaders who in the name of open
government demand more and more access to executive-branch
documents -- even including Ronald Reagan's personal diaries
-- are the protectors of a secret list that prevents the
American people from knowing where their representatives
really stand. A lone Member has now decided to risk the anger
of the House leadership by ripping away the veil of secrecy.
   In the 1950s and 1960s, autocratic House committee
chairmen routinely bottled up civil-rights bills and refused
to let them come to a floor vote. Today, popular bills
ranging from amendments to balance the budget and ban flag
desecration are routinely buried in committee because the
liberal House leadership opposes them and wants to avoid
votes that could be used against incumbents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There is only one real way a majority of Members can bring
legislation to the House floor if it is blocked in committee:
They must produce a discharge petition. If 218 Members -- a
House majority -- sign a discharge petition, the relevant
committee must either vote out the bill or agree to a floor
vote. However, only 19 of 347 discharge petitions have
succeeded.
   This is because the list of Members who have signed a
petition is kept secret -- until the required 218 sign. Only
Members can view the list, and then only briefly to make
certain their name is on it.
   They must first go to the Clerk's desk in the House
chamber. They are handed a statement signed by the Clerk and
Speaker informing them that disclosing the names of signers,
or the number of names, is "strictly prohibited under the
precedents of the House." The sole precedent is an arbitrary
1931 prohibition by Speaker John Nance Garner that was never
made part of official House rules.
   This restriction has made it easy for Speakers to squash
discharge petitions. Whenever the list comes close to 218
names, the Speaker routinely pressures Members to drop off.
The list's secrecy allows them to conceal their timidity from
the voters.
   Rep. Chuck Douglas, a former New Hampshire Supreme Court
Justice, says the petition's secrecy is in direct conflict
with honest and open government. "This covert list allows
Members the best of two political worlds," he told us. "They
can publicly support a measure, like protecting the flag,
while quietly withholding their names from the petition that
would accomplish that."
   He notes that during last year's popular effort to repeal
Section 89 of the tax code, 309 of the 435 House Members
signed on to a repeal bill, but less than half that number
signed the discharge petition, largely to avoid angering
House leaders.
   Mr. Douglas has decided to break up this cozy protection
for hypocrites. He has just filed a discharge petition to
force a vote on his amendment to ban flag desecration. While
he is obliged to not reveal the names of signers, he has
announced he will disclose the names of any Members who claim
to have signed the petition but do not actually do so.
   He plans to do the same with a second discharge petition
to force a vote on a balanced-budget amendment. It has 246
co-sponsors, but Judiciary Committee Chairman Jack Brooks
refuses to release it. Rep. Douglas expects a lot of pressure
from his colleagues to back down, but he has no intention of
budging.
   The secret discharge petition is only the latest example
of how House Rules -- or in this case merely a precedent --
are used to shield Members from accountability. We tried to
request documents on the history of the discharge petition's
secrecy by using the Freedom of Information Act, but were
informed that Congress has exempted itself from that law as
well.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   CrossLand Savings
   Ratings on Debt
   Lowered by S&amp;P
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   CRL
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. lowered the ratings on
subordinated debt of CrossLand Savings and said that if the
savings bank continues to suffer from a capital crunch, a
further downgrade is possible.
   The ratings agency said the downgrade reflects
"CrossLand's deteriorating asset quality, accentuated by a
large loss in the first quarter ended March 31, as well as
its ongoing capital deficiency." On Friday, CrossLand
reported a first-quarter loss of $136.5 million, reflecting a
$100 million provision for possible losses on problem loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Brooklyn-based CrossLand, the largest savings bank in New
York and one of the largest in the country, has suffered from
weakness in the regional real estate market. The bank's
nonperforming assets have been soaring just as new, strict
capital requirements were instituted in thrift-reform
legislation passed by Congress.
   CrossLand has been ordered to bolster its low tangible
capital base, but a recapitalization plan collapsed last
month when the Pritzker family of Chicago decided against an
investment.
   As an alternative, CrossLand recently filed a proposal
with the Office of Thrift Supervision to convert preferred
stock, which isn't counted as core capital because of its
cumulative feature, into common stock. But shareholders have
to approve the plan, and even if they do, said S&amp;P, "it will
leave the company shy of the risk-adjusted capital minimum."
   Maurice Reissman, chairman, president and chief executive
officer of CrossLand, said S&amp;P is wrong in its assertion that
the stock reclassification plan won't cover its capital
requirement. "The total risk-adjusted capital requirement is
for $621.8 million," said Mr. Reissman, "And if the
reclassification is successful, we'll have $752.3 million."
   In its statement, S&amp;P added, "Partially mitigating the
concerns is CrossLand's continued strong market position."
   The agency downgraded CrossLand's subordinated debt to
triple-C-plus from single-B, and its certificates of deposit
to single-B/single-B from double-B-minus/single-B. These
ratings were placed on CreditWatch in November. S&amp;P said
about $170 million of subordinated debt is affected, but it
affirmed its single-C rating on CrossLand's $363 million of
preferred stock.
   Separately, the crowded CrossLand annual meeting lasted
nearly two hours, as a variety of shareholders criticized the
company for its judgment and performance.
   In remarks about the future of the company, Mr. Reissman
reiterated statements in the annual report about cutting back
on construction loans, emphasizing residential real estate
loans, and exploring the sale of branch operations in several
states.
   Mr. Reissman didn't offer new proposals for raising
capital. He said he couldn't answer questions about how
seriously the bank will be hurt if the stock reclassification
doesn't get approved by the preferred and common shareholders
or what alternatives the company has.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   America West Airlines
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AWAL
</CO>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- America West Airlines said it
established $50 million of revolving credit with a group of
banks led by Bank of America.
   The credit, secured by certain America West assets and
extending for three years, will be used for general corporate
purposes, the carrier said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Other lenders in the group include the Industrial Bank of
Japan, First Interstate Bank of Arizona, Valley National Bank
and First Hawaiian Bank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Unisys Receives Navy Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   UIS
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Unisys Corp. was awarded a $20.8 million
Navy contract for missile-control units.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Mirror Image: Mr. Hyde Sees Mr. Hyde
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   According to your April 19 Asides, Czech public prosecutor
Tomas Sokol is threatening to outlaw the Czechoslovak
Communist Party under an existing statute prohibiting fascism
in that country.
   Should Mr. Sokol need expert testimony corroborating his
conclusion that communism and fascism are mirror-image
tyrannies, here are some testimonials from experts on the
subject:
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Susan Sontag (American liberal-intellectual author and
literary critic): "Not only is fascism (and overt military
rule) the probable destiny of all Communist societies --
especially when their populations are moved to revolt -- but
Communism is itself a variant, the most successful variant,
of fascism."
   Adolf Hitler: "The petit bourgeois Social Democrat and
trade union boss will never make a National Socialist, but
the Communist always will. . . . There is more that unites us
than divides us from Bolshevism . . . above all the genuine
revolutionary spirit."
   Andrei Sakharov (Russian dissident and Nobel Peace Prize
winner, to Soviet officials at the 1978 trial of Anatoly
Shcharansky): "You are not humans. You are fascists. Hear me,
a member of the Academy of Sciences. You are fascists."
   Seweryn Bailer (Columbia University professor of Russian
Studies and emigre from Poland): "I came to realize that the
system there {in the U.S.S.R.} involved all of the things I
had fought against in Nazism. And I made my decision on this
to leave that system at the first opportunity."
   Bernard-Henri Levy (French intellectual of the "New
Philosophers" Movement): "I am the bastard child of an unholy
union between fascism and Stalinism. . . . The only
revolution I know, the one which may grant notoriety to this
century, is the Nazi plague and Red fascism."
   Prof. A. James Gregor (author of "The Fascist Persuasion
in Radical Politics," Princeton University Press, 1974): ". .
. Fascist and Communist regimes are subspecies of one and the
same species. . . . In substance, whatever distinctions there
are between `fascist' and `communist' movements in terms of
ideological commitments -- they are singularly superficial."
   Although your Asides did not address the problem of
"former" Communist parties now calling themselves "Democratic
Socialist" or "Social Democratic," there is an urgent need in
geopolitics for a label distinguishing such parties from
those of Western "social democrats" -- who are, in truth,
free-enterprise welfare-state democrats, rather than
state-ownership socialists of Marxist tendency.
   The new label is "communoid," which simply indicates that
the political party in question most assuredly was Communist
(i.e. left-wing fascist) and, in its socialist heart of
hearts, may still be.
   Jim Guirard Jr.
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thermo Instrument
   To Acquire Finnigan
   For Up to $120 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   THI FNNG TMO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   WALTHAM, Mass. -- Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. said it
agreed to acquire Finnigan Corp. for $20 a share or $110
million to $120 million.
   Finnigan, which Thermo called the world's largest maker of
mass spectrometers, has been unprofitable in the face of
competitive pricing pressures. In over-the-counter trading
yesterday, Finnigan surged $4.50 to $18.75. Thermo
Instrument, an 80%-owned subsidiary of Thermo Electron Corp.,
rose 12.5 cents to $14.375. Thermo Instrument makes
instruments for environmental testing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first quarter, Finnigan, San Jose, Calif., had a
net loss of $1.1 million, or 20 cents a share, on sales of
$30.3 million.
   Arvin Smith, president of Thermo Instrument, said that for
the first quarter his company expects to report net income
rose almost 30% to about $4.1 million, or 17 cents a share,
from a restated $3.2 million or 16 cents a share. The number
of shares outstanding increased to 24 million from a restated
19.7 million to reflect the conversion of debentures. Sales
rose 19% to about $49 million from a restated $41.2 million,
he said.
   The Finnigan acquisition would be Thermo Instrument's
second consecutive purchase of a struggling company. In
January, Thermo Instrument completed the stock acquisition of
Thermo Environmental Corp., another Thermo Electron
affiliate.
   Thermo Instrument's main business is making instruments
used to test and monitor air, water and nuclear pollution
sources. That business has been growing strongly as
corporations increasingly worry about toughened pollution
regulations. Thermo Environmental, whose sales account for
about 30% of the combined company, runs laboratories that
conduct such tests.
   The Finnigan acquisition is subject to approval by each
board, execution of a definitive acquisition agreement, and
receipt of regulatory and other approvals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   ADAC Laboratories
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ADAC
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   ADAC LABORATORIES said it suspended its quarterly common
stock dividend because of a slowdown in orders from
customers. The Milpitas, Calif., medical imaging equipment
company last paid a four cent dividend in its fiscal second
quarter ended April 1. A spokesman for the company said Adac
has been affected by slower orders from hospitals, which the
company said are "taking a harder look at their capital
budgets." In addition, the company said it has been hurt by
increased competition. For the second quarter, the company
had net income of $1.2 million, or three cents a share, down
nearly 71% from the $4.1 million, or nine cents a share, a
year earlier. Revenue declined nearly 17% to $20 million from
$24 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Divided:
   Southern Baptists Lose
   Members and Impetus
   In an Internal Struggle
   ---
   Largest U.S. Protestant Body,
   Still Purging `Liberals,'
   Finds Evangelism Stalled
   ---
   The Pressler-Patterson Axis
   ----
   By R. Gustav Niebuhr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   Just a decade ago the Southern Baptists seemed ready to
dominate the American religious landscape. Growing by an
average 200,000 members a year, the Southern Baptist
Convention had become the nation's second largest religious
body, behind the Roman Catholic Church, and it had plenty of
ambition for growth.
   The denomination's leaders had launched a campaign to
"reach every person in the world with the gospel of Jesus
Christ by the year 2000." They had leaped into conservative
Sunbelt politics, championing the candidacy of Ronald Reagan
and others. And the new leadership, headed by conservative
Texas state judge Paul Pressler, had just vowed to rid the
denomination of "liberals" who weakened the movement from
within.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Over the past decade, Mr. Pressler and his ideological
partner, Paige Patterson, have set about doing just that,
triggering a purge of an unprecedented number of teachers and
staffers who don't agree with their fundamentalist views. But
rather than gaining strength, the Southern Baptist juggernaut
has stalled, and many members blame what they say is the
overzealous leadership of Messrs. Pressler and Patterson.
   The convention is now losing more active members than it
is adding, and fewer and fewer missionaries and seminary
students are signing up to spread its word. Some churches
have begun withholding contributions to the convention's
coffers, forcing some Baptist agencies to cut their staffs
and postpone salary increases.
   Should this slide continue, "it would threaten everything
we do," says Harold C. Bennett, treasurer of the convention's
executive committee.
   Demographic factors account for some of this decline. The
baby boom generation has been less likely to attend church or
to remain loyal to a particular denomination. Many Protestant
churches, for example, have experienced more severe
membership slides. But many Baptists themselves largely point
to the internal dissension and ill will they say has been
created by the 11 years of fundamentalist rule led by Mr.
Pressler and Mr. Patterson. Mr. Pressler, 59 years old, last
year turned down an offer from President Bush to head the
Office of Government Ethics (following bitter protests from
moderate Baptists). Mr. Patterson, 47, is the president of
Criswell College, a Baptist institution in Dallas.
   Gene Puckett, an outspoken moderate who is editor of the
Baptist state newspaper in North Carolina, wrote in a recent
editorial: "No denomination can stand the continued stress
Southern Baptists have known for 11 years. We are
step-by-step self-destructing."
   John Baugh, a 75- year-old Houston millionaire who has
given generously to Baptist causes, is now spending plenty of
money on a campaign to oust the Pressler-Patterson faction
from the leadership.
   The Rev. John Hewett, pastor of the First Baptist Church
of Asheville, N.C., says, "People aren't stupid: They won't
continue to give $100,000 a year to something that's going to
eradicate what they stand for."
   The slight, combative Mr. Pressler, who sits on the ruling
77-man executive committee, and the stocky and soft-spoken
Mr. Patterson, who is a trustee of the convention's foreign
mission board, derive most of their power from their
positions as chief political strategist and chief ideologue,
respectively, of the denomination's fundamentalist wing. The
fundamentalists believe that life should be ruled by a
resolutely literal interpretation of the Bible.
   Messrs. Pressler and Patterson play down the nature of the
troubles within the convention, noting that the national
organization raised a record $137 million last year, and that
contributions have continued to rise every year under their
tenurealbeit by a much smaller amount than they used to.
   They do acknowledge that the movement has lost its
momentum, but they vow to right that soon. Says Mr. Pressler,
"When the fire is recovered in the pulpits . . . we'll see
great things accomplished," he says. "This is going to mean
more baptisms, more contributions, more evangelistic zeal."
   Mr. Pressler says the revival will take place as soon as
he has eradicated what he calls "the fruits of liberalism,"
which he says "take a long time to develop" and an even
longer time to dispel.
   For many, however, simply finding "liberals" in the
Southern Baptist Convention isn't an easy task.
   Since its founding in 1845, when it split with northern
Baptists over the issue of slavery, the Southern Baptist
movement has played a major role in shaping conservative
Southern values. From its revivals, in which the faithful
march down the church aisle and become "born again" by
publicly declaring their faith in Jesus, to its ubiquitous
Sunday schools, vacation Bible camps and Baptist colleges,
the denomination has imbued its members with the notion that
they are chosen by God to evangelize a sinful world. They
tend to shun tobacco, alcohol and dancing.
   Mr. Baugh, the Houston millionaire and Baptist moderate,
says he has "never seen a liberal in the Southern Baptist
Convention."
   But Messrs. Patterson and Pressler have seen them, going
back quite a few years. Mr. Patterson, who began preaching
publicly at age 15, recalls that at one point in the 1950s,
he informed his father, a prominent Baptist who later became
executive director of the General Baptist Convention of
Texas, that the faculty of nearby Hardin-Simmons University
in Abilene was theologically soft.
   Mr. Patterson soon went off to a seminary in New Orleans,
where he first met the young Princeton-educated attorney, Mr.
Pressler, who was visiting. Mr. Patterson vividly recalls
that the two like-minded Baptists spent an entire night in
the French Quarter's Cafe du Monde, where, oblivious to the
revelry going on about them, they munched sugar doughnuts and
plotted how they would one day rid their denomination of
liberalism. "That was where this all started," he says. "We
think they should put a plaque there."
   The fundamentalists believe women should have no role in
church leadership, that abortion of any kind is wrong and
that prayer in schools should be mandatory. The "liberals"
tend to support abortion in limited cases, believe women
should be allowed to hold church office and vigorously oppose
school prayer as a violation of the separation between church
and state.
   Rhetoric has been anything but kind over the years, with
moderate Baptists labeling fundamentalists "fanatics," among
other things, and fundamentalists choosing such phrases as
"skunks" and "rattlesnakes" for their opponents.
   But for the many years the moderates controlled national
offices, moderates and fundamentalists generally co-existed
within the denomination, each maintaining their own positions
as heads of churches and colleges and in state and local
Baptist offices.
   Mr. Pressler says he was finally moved to change all that
in 1977 when he received complaints from five freshmen at
Baptist-supported Baylor University in Waco, Texas, about
"liberal" textbooks. He recalls one such textbook asserting
that the Old Testament's Book of Daniel contains historical
errors. Mr. Pressler says he concluded that this and other
teachings at Baylor were theological "garbage," so he set out
to drive the liberals from the Baptist temple.
   By 1979, his political skills bore fruit, as his
well-organized fundamentalist faction swamped the generally
sleepy annual convention, marking the first of 10 straight
electoral victories. Over the years, the fundamentalists have
consolidated their power to an extent moderates say they
never did, moving in on moderate scholars, ministers and
state and local denomination officials.
   The Rev. Claude Stewart taught theology at Southeastern
Baptist Theological Seminary near Raleigh, N.C., until 1987,
when he became the first of more than a dozen faculty members
to resign in the face of a fundamentalist takeover of the
school's board of trustees. "Frankly, I knew that I
represented the left-wing of the spectrum there," Mr. Stewart
says. The so-called left wing there supported the ordination
of women.
   While getting rid of the likes of Mr. Stewart may ensure
that a more fundamentalist view is taken in the schools, it
hasn't helped with the all-important fundraising or in
recruiting new members to the denomination.
   At the denomination's national headquarters, housed in a
three-block long cluster of buildings in downtown Nashville,
Tenn., Baptist bureaucrats have discovered that moderates,
who are becoming more and more dismayed with the
fundamentalist turn in their faith, are the biggest givers to
church fund-raising drives. In North Carolina, a hotbed of
moderate resistance, $557,000 in contributions that normally
would have gone to Nashville were withheld in protest last
year, up from $20,000 the year before.
   The Rev. Ferris Akins, who directs missionary work for 50
central Texas churches, says he used to support the
fundamentalists until he discovered that, in general, their
churches often passed little of their own funds on to
Nashville.
   Last summer, the denomination's Executive Committee
announced that because of a fund-raising shortage, $23
million in projects for the 1985-90 period -- mostly building
projects at the seminaries -- would have to be tackled
sometime in the next decade.
   But perhaps more important than the shortage of money is
the public-relations problem the denomination's squabbling is
causing throughout the South.
   Curious to see what others thought of his fellow Baptists,
I.L. Clayton, a retired Raleigh, N.C., businessman, decided
to poll the Sunday lunch crowd at a local K&amp;W Cafeteria last
year. "The first lady I talked to said, `I'm a Baptist, but
I'm ashamed to admit it,'" he recalls. Other diners who
weren't Baptists either denounced the denomination or simply
asked, "Why do you fight all the time?"
   Enrollment at the six Southern Baptist seminaries has
fallen 14% since 1985. At Southwestern Baptist Theological
Seminary in Fort Worth, Texas, President Russell Dilday says
many young Baptist men and women fear being sucked into the
fight. "This is not a good time, they say, to go into
Southern Baptist ministry and mission work," he says.
   On Monday, fundamentalists, who recently gained control of
the board of the Southern Baptist seminary in Louisville,
Ky., encouraged students to tape-record their teachers to
make sure the instructors follow fundamentalist views in the
classroom. The seminary also in effect barred its employees
from opposing its anti-abortion stand, and it encouraged
employees to campaign for new laws that would bar abortion
except in cases where the mother's life is in danger.
   Even some fundamentalists say their national leadership
has become too concerned with purging nonbelievers and with
internal and external politics.
   The most important break inside the fundamentalist camp
came last fall when the Rev. David Montoya, a pastor in
Gravette, Ark., and one of the fundamentalists' eight
"district leaders" in Arkansas, quit after some local Baptist
leaders whom he says are hard-line conservatives were accused
by fundamentalists of being "liberals."
   Before he broke with the organization, Mr. Montoya taped a
political "strategy session" in which fundamentalists laid
plans to take over the Arkansas Baptist Convention -- one of
the few state organizations they don't already dominate -- by
busing in supporters to swamp the annual state meeting. Newly
elected fundamentalist officers would then dismiss some of
the convention's top staff members, the so-called liberals.
Mr. Montoya leaked the tape, touching off an uproar among the
state's Baptists, who voted to reject the fundamentalist
candidate for state convention president.
   Some prominent Baptists now say they worry that the
deepening ill will could lead some individual churches to
simply secede from the convention and join another related
sect, such as the American Baptist Churches in the U.S.A.,
formerly known as the northern Baptists. Unlike more tightly
organized denominations like the Episcopalians or Methodists,
the Southern Baptist Convention has always been a loose
coalition of independent, autonomous churches that can easily
withhold funds or break completely away from the national
organization.
   Bill J. Leonard, professor of church history at the
Southern Baptist seminary in Louisville, writes in a history
of the convention scheduled to be published in June that "the
possibility exists that the Southern Baptist Convention could
be permanently split."
   Still, the fundamentalist leaders say they are
unconcerned. They fully expect to once-again sweep the annual
leadership elections slated for June 12-14 in New Orleans.
   Mr. Patterson, for one, claims that "we'll more than
replace" any denomination members driven off by the
fundamentalist movement. Already, he says, some independent
fundamentalist churches have expressed interest in joining
the South Baptist denomination. "Sooner or later, you're
going to have an awakening, or a revival, and we're going to
take off again," he says.
   Mr. Pressler adds that the takeoff is fast approaching,
since fundamentalists now are close to controlling just about
every Southern Baptist institution. He vows, "When
conservative, grass-roots Southern Baptists have complete
confidence in their institutions, then they will open their
pocketbooks."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Low-Priced IBM Home Computer
   To Be Introduced in Early Summer
   ---
   Move Will Mark New Effort
   To Succeed in Market
   Where Firm Has Lagged
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM S MZ
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   International Business Machines Corp. will introduce
several models of a low-cost home computer early this summer,
signaling a splashy new assault on a market in which it has
failed in the past, industry executives said.
   The executives said the new machines will avoid most of
IBM's previous missteps: They will run popular software and
will be reasonably powerful, easy to use and priced
aggressively -- between $1,000 and $2,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Still, going after the home market is a gamble for the
Armonk, N.Y.-based computer giant. As IBM discovered to its
embarrassment in 1984 and 1985, when its PCjr home computer
was met with widespread ridicule, home users are a demanding
bunch. They're also very price-sensitive, making the formula
for a success particularly hard to find.
   IBM is taking another gamble, as well, the executives
added. In an expansion of a trial program, IBM will sell the
computers through high-profile department stores such as R.H.
Macy &amp; Co. and Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., they said. That could
well help reach customers who don't regularly visit computer
stores. At the same time, IBM needs to be careful not to
alienate its existing network of dealers, whose good
relations with IBM over the past year and a half have
contributed to IBM's gains in the personal-computer market.
   An IBM spokeswoman declined to comment on the reports,
saying the company doesn't talk about products before they
are announced. But IBM executives have hinted around such a
move for months, and vice president James Cannavino issued a
statement yesterday that emphasized IBM's current presence in
the marketplace and said IBM is "working hard to satisfy
(home computing) needs with highly competitive products."
   While IBM has had some success with computers on the low
end of its Personal System/2 line, the home market is
dominated by makers of IBM "clones" such as Packard Bell Inc.
and Epson America Inc., and by home-computer specialist
Commodore International Ltd.
   The size of the market is hard to quantify, because any
personal computer can be used at home. International Data
Corp., a market research firm in Framingham, Mass., estimates
that U.S. sales of "homehobby" computers -- a definition that
excludes machines used mostly for business -- will reach $975
million, or 1.1 million units, in 1990. That's a very small
slice of the total $28 billion, 9.8 million-unit market for
personal computers in the U.S.
   Slicing the data another way, Personal Technology Research
of Waltham, Mass., says $3.8 billion of computers, or 5.5
million units, will be sold during 1990 through electronics
stores that don't specialize in computers. That's how most
people buy home computers, whether they're for personal or
business use, says PTR general manager Casey Dworkin.
   In any case, analysts said, several trends in the market
are evident. Machines are getting more powerful, and the
ability to run heavy-duty business applications is key.
   "We aren't looking at the toy most people were buying five
or six years ago," said Mr. Dworkin. "People want to be able
to bring work home." A $1,000 entry-level price also appears
to be important, and ease-of-use has emerged as a major
selling point.
   IBM's new offerings will apparently address all these
points. But company executives have indicated that they don't
just want to grab a share of an existing marketplace: They
want to create a whole new class of customers.
   "New users -- people who've never seen computer outside of
a video arcade -- make up most of our potential market," Mr.
Cannavino, the IBM vice president, told analysts recently.
   Mr. Cannavino, who heads IBM's personal systems business,
is shaping up as a cheerleader for home computers. He has
told many people that he sees the nation's 90 million
households as a tempting target, and talks of "a computer in
every kitchen."
   This vision -- the computer as household appliance --
means that IBM will likely have to market its home computers
a lot differently than its other personal computers, which
are sold mostly through authorized computer stores. Industry
executives said the company is lining up department stores
that will sell the machines in much the same way they sell
televisions or microwave ovens.
   The executives said the new machines will be based on
Intel Corp.'s 80286 microprocessor, which also serves as the
heart of IBM's low-end Model 25 and 30 personal computers.
They will also include a 30-megabyte hard-disk drive, a 3
1/2-inch floppy-disk drive, 640 kilobytes of internal memory,
a mouse, and easy-to-use software that will allow users to
start working as soon as the computer is turned on. Some
models will offer an internal modem, allowing the computer to
communicate across telephone lines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dead Horse Breeder
   Raises a Ruckus
   With a Beneficiary
   ---
   Cancer Foundation Must Fire
   Director or Lose Millions;
   A Sort of Kentucky Derby
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   LEXINGTON, Ky. -- Leslie Combs II always caused a stir.
His fondness for younger women was legendary. "A tough old
cat needs a tender young mouse," he told local reporters. His
mansion's sunroom windows were said to be made of bulletproof
glass.
   Now Mr. Combs lies under the fresh Kentucky bluegrass of
his grave -- still causing a stir. When he died at the age of
88 earlier this month, he left only furniture and jewelry to
his two children. The bulk of his estate, estimated at about
$13 million, went to the McDowell Cancer Foundation, a
fund-raising group for a cancer treatment center here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sounds generous. But there is a big hitch.
   The foundation must first fire its director, 37-year-old
Linda Mauk. If she stays, the booty goes to Centre College, a
Danville, Ky., liberal-arts college where Mr. Combs spent two
years.
   That puts the cancer foundation, which may decide this
week whether to honor the old man's last wish, in a tight
spot. "It's a lot of money," says William Bagby, a tax
attorney and foundation president.
   Other foundation leaders and horse breeders are outraged.
They say they will drop their support for the center if Ms.
Mauk is fired. "How can they let some old nut run this from
the grave," steams Mary Jane Gallaher, a fellow Lexingtonian
who's known the Combs family for years.
   Says Marylou Whitney, fellow horse breeder and flamboyant
hostess of the Lexington and Saratoga party scenes: "No one
should be dismissed without cause." Mrs. Whitney is so
incensed that she has resigned as a fund-raiser for the
foundation. And she is taking her millions with her.
   Mr. Bagby, a former Treasury Department investigator,
hopes there is a loophole that will both satisfy the will and
allow Ms. Mauk to keep her job.
   The million-dollar question remains: Why did Mr. Combs
dislike Ms. Mauk?
   Everyone except Mr. Combs seems to think she has done a
good job. She has helped raise nearly $30 million to build
the Lucille Parker Markey Cancer Center. "It's a
fund-raiser's worst nightmare," says the petite and energetic
Ms. Mauk, who insists that she and Mr. Combs were once
friends.
   Other friends say they're not surprised that the willful
horse breeder wrote such a bizarre will. "Leslie had a mean
streak to him, especially after he got old and couldn't chase
girls anymore," says Mrs. Gallaher.
   The son of a farm manager, Mr. Combs rose from humble
beginnings to become a legend in the horse industry, helping
establish the first Keeneland horse sales during World War
II. He wooed potential horse buyers, such as Louis B. Mayer,
the movie mogul, at Bluegrass parties during horse auctions
and Kentucky Derbys.
   Mr. Combs and his Spendthrift Farm rose to stardom when he
and a group of investors bid $1.25 million in 1955 for
Nashua, sire of scores of stakes winners. The group was the
first million-dollar syndicate in racehorse breeding. Mr.
Combs gained further fame with Majestic Prince, winner of the
1969 Kentucky Derby.
   "He was a master," says Preston Madden, a breeder who as a
teen-ager learned to drink bourbon and play poker at
Spendthrift. "Leslie would always tell the butler to bring
out the good whiskey for me."
   Friends say Mr. Combs changed when Spendthrift hit hard
times. A public offering of the farm's stock turned sour when
the horse market weakened in the early 1980s. Angry
shareholders sued. Slowly the farm was sold off. A group of
private investors own the remaining real estate and horses.
   Virginia Anderson, a former reporter for the Lexington
Herald-Leader who chronicled Spendthrift's demise, says Mr.
Combs was a smart businessman, but he always wanted to do
more than talk business. "He thought he was Don Juan," she
says.
   Decorated in bright pinks and greens, the sunroom of his
house had some rather odd furnishings, visitors say. At first
glance, the silk flower arrangement in the center of a table
appeared normal, they note, but a closer inspection revealed
that the blossoms were actually tiny silk buttocks and
penises. "He had a lot of strange toys," says a confidante.
   Was Mr. Combs doing unto others as they had done unto him?
His wife, Dorothy Enslow Combs, died in 1968. Her will
bequeathed him not a dime of her real estate and railroad
fortune if he ever remarried. He never did. His wealthy
mother-in-law, Juliette Enslow, was strangled in 1936. (The
murder was never solved). She left her son-in-law a mere set
of books written by Honore de Balzac, who chronicled
money-grubbers and gold-diggers.
   Mr. Combs's will, read two weeks ago, has cast a cloud
over Bluegrass's most festive season. With the Derby a little
more than a week away, Mrs. Whitney and others are busy
planning Derby Eve parties, buying fancy gowns and preparing
for an onslaught of guests.
   But now the horse crowd is buzzing about the will. Most
expected Mr. Combs, who developed prostate cancer 11 years
ago, to leave his estate to the McDowell Foundation. Indeed,
that pledge persuaded the Markey Center several years ago to
name one of its research buildings after his wife.
   But Ms. Mauk says he changed his mind -- and last fall,
his will -- after she and his physician, Ben Roach,
discouraged him from going to Mexico for alternative cancer
treatments. Kay Timmons, Mr. Combs's companion and a believer
in holistic medicine, was angry that Ms. Mauk wouldn't
endorse the trip, according to friends. Ms. Timmons, who was
bequeathed $200,000 by Mr. Combs, couldn't be located for
comment.
   "He wasn't thinking clearly at that point," says Mrs.
Whitney. She visited Mr. Combs regularly during his final
stay at the cancer center in a room one floor above Ms.
Mauk's office.
   Mr. Combs's daughter, Juliette Trapp, contends that her
father changed his mind after Ms. Mauk threatened to take her
mother's name off the research building. "This was
understandably traumatic to him and was enough to cause him
to include the reference to Ms. Mauk in his will." Ms. Mauk
denies such a threat.
   Still another theory holds that Mr. Combs was trying to
get even with Ms. Mauk for rebuffing his advances. "It wasn't
like that at all," insists Ms. Mauk. Others say Mr. Combs was
trying to get back at both Ms. Mauk and Dr. Roach because he
didn't approve of their relationship. Dr. Roach, who has been
separated from his wife for seven years, is dating Ms. Mauk.
   Balderdash, say Dr. Roach and Ms. Mauk. Sure, they are
involved, but Mr. Combs never had a problem with that. "We go
to church and parties together," says Ms. Mauk. "We're an
accepted part of the community."
   Indeed, the couple often dined with Mr. Combs and Ms.
Timmons at the Coach House and other horsey hangouts. "He
invited us to spend a week with them in Florida," Ms. Mauk
says. "A year ago, he considered us his best friends."
   In death as in life, Mr. Combs has insisted on doing
things his way. In his will, he even outlines how his
children, Brownell Combs and Mrs. Trapp, should draw straws
if they disagree on how to divide up the china, silver and
other goodies. Brownell also got his father's membership in
Indian Creek Country Club in Florida. Friends say the two
children received plenty of money from their mother's estate
and Mr. Combs gave them money before he died.
   Mr. Combs's secretary, Bess Bell, received $50,000. Two
household servants got some cash. And grandson Leslie Combs
Trapp got $100,000 to pay for his daughter's education.
   The bulk of the estate is in two trusts, which will make
yearly payments to Centre College -- and to the cancer
foundation, if it abides by Mr. Combs's wishes. But the
foundation's trustees first must decide this: to give Ms.
Mauk the boot, or to forget the loot. Wayne Smith, president
of Central Bank &amp; Trust in Lexington and a trustee, says it's
quite a dilemma. "It's like someone saying they want to put
$100 million in Central Bank, but Smith has got to go," he
says.
   What would he do in that situation? "I'd probably take my
stock and run," he quips.
   An editorial in the Lexington Herald-Leader chastised the
foundation for even considering Mr. Combs's demand: "That
faint chuckling noise you hear is an old horseman enjoying a
last laugh at the expense of Mauk and the cancer foundation's
image," the editorial said. Letters to the editor suggest
that Centre College refuse the money. The school hasn't
decided what it will do.
   But once again, Mr. Combs could get the last laugh. His
will says if anyone takes legal action to upset his will, all
the money goes to the college.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Treating Migraines
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   GLX
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   In your March 16 article about the new agent, sumatriptan,
manufactured by Glaxo, you state, "there is nothing in the
marketplace now that effectively treats migraine".
   Migraine is treated abortively and/or prophylactically.
Propranolol (Inderal) has been used extensively for migraine
therapy and has been recognized by the FDA for more than 10
years, as an effective agent in migraine prophylaxis. This
drug has demonstrated excellent results throughout the world.
Effective abortive agents are also available.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Only time, extensive studies and widespread use of
sumatriptan will demonstrate its reported benefits over those
of the currently used therapeutic agents.
   Seymour Diamond, M.D.
   Director
   Diamond Headache Clinic Ltd.
   Chicago
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Durable Goods
   Orders Climbed
   6.7% in March
   ---
   Analysts Say Data Suggest
   Manufacturing Sector
   Is Rebounding Slightly
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Orders to makers of big-ticket goods leaped
6.7% in March, the Commerce Department reported, suggesting
to some analysts that the manufacturing sector may be in a
mild rally.
   The March increase in orders for durable goods -- factory
equipment, cars, appliances and other items intended to last
at least three years -- was the biggest jump since December
1988, when orders rose 7.4%. It followed an increase in
February of 2.3%. The two months together weren't enough,
however, to make up for the 10.5% plunge in January, which
was led by weakness in auto orders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The March report "suggests the industrial sector may have
bottomed out in January or February and may well have
rebounded a bit," said Donald Straszheim, chief economist at
Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. "It's appropriate to read this as
indicative of a bit of strength in the economy."
   However, Gordon Richards, economist for the National
Association of Manufacturers, said the rise was misleading
because "a pickup in individual sectors is disguising an
overall slower growth trend in the economy."
   Both the March and February advances reflected strong
orders for transportation equipment -- the March increase in
that segment was 21%. The Commerce Department said most of
that was attributable to aircraft orders, although motor
vehicles also showed increases. Transportation orders bounce
around a lot from month to month and were also a factor in
the big January orders drop. Excluding them, the March orders
increase was 2% and February orders were flat.
   Nevertheless, "even allowing for the air transport
portion, one has to have his confidence bolstered by the
report," said David Littmann, senior economist at
Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit. "It shows the economy
is far from recession and is still steaming along."
   Mr. Littman said he expects the government's report on
first-quarter gross national product, scheduled for release
Friday, to show a 1% to 2% expansion in total economic growth
on an annual basis. Mr. Straszheim of Merrill Lynch predicted
a higher figure, about 2.8%.
   New orders for durable goods in March totaled $128.77
billion, up from $120.68 billion in February. Orders for
primary metals increased 7%, while orders for nonelectrical
machinery, which includes computers, rose 1.6%. Orders in the
electrical machinery category rose 1.1%.
   Orders for nondefense capital goods -- which include the
increase in aircraft orders -- were up 14.9% in March. In
defense capital goods, orders were down 4.5%.
   Unfilled orders increased 0.8% to $496.70 billion,
reversing a rare decline in February of 0.5%.
   Shipments in March increased 1.5% to $124.99 billion,
after a February increase of 5.5%.
   All the figures were adjusted for seasonal variations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM Likely to Move
   Camaro and Firebird
   Production to Canada
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   GM LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Corp. is expected to announce
today that it will move production of its Chevrolet Camaro
and Pontiac Firebird muscle cars to a Canadian plant from one
in Southern California.
   But GM and United Auto Workers union officials said
yesterday there is still a chance that the 43-year-old Van
Nuys, Calif., factory that currently builds the cars will not
join the seven other GM assembly plants that have halted
production or been targeted for shutdown since 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GM scheduled a news conference at its Ste. Therese,
Quebec, plant for this afternoon. A GM spokesman in Canada
wouldn't elaborate on the reasons for the news conference.
Officials of the Canadian Auto Workers union said they're
expecting the official announcement that the Canadian factory
will build the next generation of the Camaro-Firebird,
beginning in 1992.
   The Ste. Therese plant, which currently builds a line of
midsized cars, recently got a new paint shop with the help of
220 million Canadian dollars (US$189.5 million) in
interest-free Canadian government financing. Union officials
there also have agreed to company demands for more flexible
work rules.
   GM and United Auto Workers union officials insisted
yesterday the Van Nuys plant may survive, despite its age,
its distance from GM's major parts operations and the poor
quality marks accorded its current products. Company and
union officials say they are working on plans to make the
plant into a flexible factory capable of building several
different models for the West Coast market.
   "We're very optimistic that we'll be able to convert Van
Nuys" into a flexible manufacturing plant, a GM spokeswoman
said yesterday. "We don't expect it to close," added Henry
Gonzalez, assistant director for the UAW region that covers
California.
   Moreover, by moving the Van Nuys plant's cars to Canada,
GM could trigger provisions of the current UAW-GM agreement
that prohibit layoffs except as a result of a sales downturn,
UAW officials said. Under those provisions, GM would have to
keep the 3,000 Van Nuys workers on the payroll even if they
had no production work to do.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Schering-Plough
   Sets 2-for-1 Split,
   Boosts Dividend
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   SGP WLA
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Schering-Plough Corp. directors declared a 2-for-1 stock
split and lifted the quarterly dividend 24%, while Warner
Lambert Co. holders approved an increase in authorized shares
to effect a previously announced 2-for-1 split.
   At Schering, the moves reflect "several consecutive years
of outstanding earnings growth and good business
performance," said Robert P. Luciano, chairman and chief
executive officer of the Madison, N.J., pharmaceuticals
concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The split is payable May 30 to stock of record May 4. The
dividend increase, to 56 cents a share from 45 cents, is
payable May 21 to stock of record May 4. At March 31,
Schering had 113.3 million shares outstanding.
   Shareholders at Schering's annual meeting also rejected
two shareholder proposals: that the company stop doing
business in South Africa, and that it report annually to
holders on the scope of its use of animals in testing
products and on its efforts to stop using animals for
testing.
   Warner-Lambert reiterated a projection that earnings per
share will rise at least 16% in 1990, adjusted for the split.
In 1989, Warner-Lambert earned $6.10 a share.
   Shareholders at the annual meeting of the Morris Plains,
N.J., health-care and consumer products company approved a
doubling of authorized common, to 300 million shares.
Warner-Lambert will pay the split on or about May 16 to stock
of record May 2. Warner-Lambert has about 67 million shares
outstanding.
   Warner-Lambert holders also defeated shareholder proposals
that the company quit operating in South Africa and implement
cumulative voting for directors. Under cumulative voting,
each shareholder has a number of votes equal to the number of
shares he or she owns times the number of directors up for
election. A shareholder may allot the votes among the
director candidates in any way he or she wishes.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Schering shares rose 25 cents to $80.125, while
Warner-Lambert's fell $1 to $105.75.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Leeco Diagnostics Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   LECO WNEWS I.REC
</CO>
<LP>
   LEECO DIAGNOSTICS Inc. (Southfield, Mich.) -- Paul A.
Rosinack, 42 years old, resigned as this diagnostics maker's
chief executive officer, effective May 31, to pursue personal
interests. Until a successor is named, Giovanni Recordati,
chairman, will be interim chief executive of Leeco, which is
57%-owned by Recordati S.p.A., an international health-care
company based in Milan, Italy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Times Mirror Posts
   33% Decline in Profit
   For the First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   TMC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Times Mirror Co. said its first-quarter net
income fell 33% because of depressed advertising revenue and
higher costs stemming from circulation gains at the Los
Angeles Times.
   Net income for the quarter was $46 million, or 36 cents a
share. In the year-earlier quarter, Times Mirror reported net
of $68.8 million, or 53 cents a share. Revenue for the latest
quarter rose 3.3%, to $875.2 million from $846.9 million a
year ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Robert F. Erburu, chairman and chief executive officer,
said that, as expected, the company's first-quarter net was
hurt by "the weak performance of our advertising-supported
business lines," despite earnings growth in its professional
publishing and cable television operations.
   The newspaper publishing group's operating profit fell
38%, to $55.8 million, from $90.1 million. Increased revenue
at the Los Angeles Times was offset by higher operating costs
resulting from an increase in circulation, to a record 1.2
million daily and 1.5 million Sunday.
   Separately, Times Mirror said the newspaper publishing
group's ad revenue fell 0.2%, to $131.9 million, for the four
weeks ended April 1. For the first 13 weeks of 1990, ad
revenue fell 2%, to $413.9 million. The latest results
included 13 Sundays, one fewer than a year ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Plans to Sell
   $16.8 Billion of Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $1.28 billion in
new cash with the sale Monday of about $16.8 billion in
short-term bills to redeem $15.52 billion in maturing bills.
   The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and
26-week bills maturing on Aug. 2 and Nov. 1, 1990,
respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum $10,000
denominations, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Monday at the
Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sears Earnings
   Decreased 59%
   In First Quarter
   ---
   Retailer Cites Performance
   Of Core Business, Claims
   At Allstate for Decline
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   S
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. said first-quarter profit
plunged 59% because of an "unsatisfactory" performance by its
core retail business and hefty claims at its Allstate
insurance unit.
   The retailing and financial services giant said net income
fell to $106.3 million, or 31 cents a share, from $257.7
million, or 70 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose
3.7% to $12.61 billion from $12.16 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The results, worse than Wall Street expected, sent Sears
stock down $1.125 to close at a new 52-week low of $35.375 in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock
had been sliding in recent weeks as Sears indicated to
analysts that their estimates were too high.
   Edward A. Brennan, the company's chairman and chief
executive officer, said results for the slow first quarter
aren't an "accurate barometer of the year's performance" for
retailers. But he took the unusual step of branding the U.S.
merchandising unit's performance "unsatisfactory." Its loss
widened to $134.2 million from $42.7 million a year ago.
   Sears had anticipated a wider loss because year-earlier
results were helped by publicity surrounding its launch of
its "everyday low pricing" strategy, Mr. Brennan said. But he
blamed "pressure on gross {profit} margins as well as higher
selling costs" for the worse-than-expected showing. Profit
margins were squeezed, analysts said, because Sears's
year-round prices are now lower and the retailer still needs
to offer discounts to stay competitive. Sales of apparel --
an especially profitable business -- also fell in the period,
the analysts said.
   Mr. Brennan said Sears has "made adjustments in the
implementation of our merchandising strategy and we should
experience significantly improved results during the balance
of the year." A spokesman explained that the company is
focusing on managing its payroll more efficiently after
"experiencing unsatisfactory payroll management" in the first
quarter.
   But Edward Weller, an analyst at Montgomery Securities in
San Francisco, said he now expects earnings by Sears this
year to be flat with last year's $1.51 billion. He had been
forecasting a slight increase in earnings.
   Sears is in the middle of a massive drive to broaden its
appeal to shoppers and improve its financial results, partly
by cutting costs. The retailer is adding name brands to its
mostly private-label lineup. It also has trimmed and
reorganized its bloated bureaucracy to create business units
that are now held responsible for buying and selling entire
categories of goods.
   The Sears merchandise group, which includes U.S. stores
and catalogs as well as international and Sears credit card
operations, posted a loss of $37.4 million compared with net
income a year ago of $33.8 million. Revenue rose 1.3% to
$6.84 billion from $6.76 billion.
   The company's other units turned in mixed performances:
   -- The Allstate insurance group, hurt by additional claims
stemming from the fourth quarter's severe cold snap and the
San Francisco earthquake, reported a 21% drop in profit to
$193.2 million from $243.9 million. Earnings in the latest
quarter include a gain of $10.5 million from the company's
discontinued group life and health operation.
   -- Profit from Dean Witter Financial Services rose 62% to
$60.7 million from $37.4 million, but most of the improvement
came from the Discover credit card operation. The Discover
card's earnings jumped 76% to $35.4 million from $20.1
million a year ago. Profit from the unit's core securities
business rose a more modest 18% to $24.7 million from $21
million.
   -- The Coldwell Banker Real Estate unit's loss widened to
$33.5 million from $16.2 million a year ago, when the company
had a gain on the sale of property.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   For the Blind, Business Ownership Opens a Closed Door
   ---
   Entrepreneurship Rises Along With
   Self-Esteem and Lender Confidence
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<LP>
   Like many other small-business owners in Houston, Glenn M.
Crosby had to retrench in the wake of the Texas oil slump.
Having sold or closed three restaurants, he is left with only
one.
   But his Mr. C Sandwich Shop earns a profit, and is the
source of considerable pride. "I have survived, while a lot
of sighted people in the same business have not," says Mr.
Crosby, who is blind.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many blind people such as Mr. Crosby are becoming
entrepreneurs these days. Like other minorities before them,
they are finding that entrepreneurship can create
opportunities for people who otherwise might have found the
door shut.
   Of the estimated 180,000 working-age blind Americans, some
70% are unemployed or underemployed, says the National
Federation of the Blind, an advocacy group based in
Baltimore. Nobody knows exactly how many blind people are
running their own unsubsidized full-time or part-time
businesses. But Kenneth Jernigan, executive director of the
federation, estimates that the number has doubled during the
past decade, to at least 4,000. Many sighted people are more
inclined to believe in the abilities of the blind, he says,
and the blind also have more confidence in themselves.
   "It's harder to go into business if you can't get credit,
if nobody believes you can do it, and you don't really
believe it yourself," Mr. Jernigan says. But blind people
increasingly are finding the means to venture into the
private sector, he says. Others say there has been a logical
progression: After making gains in employment in the 1970s
and '80s, especially in the public sector, more of the blind
are ready to start their own businesses.
   Diane Starin of Orland, Calif., runs a business training
horses and giving riding lessons. "People have never
questioned how I go about doing it," says Ms. Starin, who has
been blind since infancy. She says she frequently asks
student riders questions like, "Are your heels down?" to
compensate for a lack of visual information.
   And in training young horses to move to a trot from a
walk, she sometimes ties bells to their legs, so she can hear
whether the gait changed precisely on command. (The bells are
unnecessary when Ms. Starin is actually riding the horse.)
   "After the first 15 minutes of being around Diane, I
forgot she was blind," says Joanne Van Meter, whose daughter,
Amy, then 11 years old, took riding lessons from Ms. Starin
for six months.
   Now Ms. Starin, who keeps three horses, is diversifying.
Having noticed that the Orland area has plenty of people
shearing sheep, she says she "just seized the opportunity"
and bought a machine to sharpen clipper blades for them.
"It's really wise for me to do this new thing," Ms. Starin
says. "Horse training is harder work for comparatively little
money."
   Growing numbers of blind people, such as Tallahassee,
Fla., lawyer S. Craig Kiser, are starting their own private
professional practices, too. Mr. Kiser, who had worked for
the state of Florida's controller, says he had no trouble
getting a $10,000 bank loan to set up his first private
practice, which was in Naples, Fla. "The banker said he
routinely took chances with young attorneys and wasn't going
to treat me any different," Mr. Kiser recalls.
   Though not all blind people have received such a fair
shake, more are venturing to seek loans. "The blind have come
to recognize their own abilities and right to independence,"
Mr. Kiser says. "That kind of self-confidence wasn't there as
little as 10 to 15 years ago."
   In working totally for themselves, the boldest blind
people are going a step further even than those in the
federally subsidized programs, often called enterprise
programs, that help many blind people earn a living through
newsstands, card shops and other retail businesses.
   But some owners of subsidized businesses also are
displaying more drive and entrepreneurship than in the past,
authorities on the blind say. Donald J. Morris enjoys a
rent-free lease for his O'Leary's Emporium, on federal
property near the National Fire Academy in Emmitsburg, Md.
But the store, which pays a portion of pretax profit in lieu
of rent, is thriving mostly because Mr. Morris broadened its
scope. Instead of selling mostly food and personal-care
items, O'Leary's stresses sales of memorabilia for
firefighters.
   Mr. Morris became blind in 1967, when he was a
telephone-company salesman. "I was all set to live the life
of a blind person -- to get into a corner out of life's way,"
he says. But he persuaded himself to attempt more.
   As a store owner, he says, his success depends largely on
service. "People are greeted within 30 seconds of walking
in," he says. "Within a minute they're offered a cup of
coffee" -- made extra hot so that people will browse while it
cools. "None of these things involve eyesight," he says of
his formula for success. He says O'Leary's is profitable, on
annual sales of nearly $400,000.
   Blind business-owners say they may lose business because
some sighted people are uncomfortable around the blind or
doubt the blind can do their jobs. On the other hand, they
say, some sighted people want to help a blind person make a
living. In any case, dealing with the sighted can be
stressful. Mr. Morris, for one, says sighted salespeople for
suppliers sometimes tell him, "You're so good at this, I
don't think of you as being blind." He adds: "I'm sure they
intend it as a compliment, but it's really an offense."
   Some blind people say the hardest problems running a
business are psychological. "As a member of a minority group,
you tend to think you're not going to be able to do the job,"
says Peggy Pinder, a blind Yale graduate who has her own law
practice in Grinnell, Iowa, where she serves on the city
council. Having overcome her own doubts, Ms. Pinder says she
helps counsel others with similar feelings.
   Though she says she requires more secretarial help than
many other lawyers do, Ms. Pinder says there isn't any aspect
of her work that she can't handle. Her practice, she says, is
profitable and as big as she wants it. Moreover, it's her
own: "I can decide my own hours," she says. "I can set my own
rules."
   Not surprisingly, some blind entrepreneurs have made
businesses out of helping others who are blind. Charles E.
Hallenbeck, a blind University of Kansas psychology
professor, started up a sideline business, called Kansys Inc.
The business, housed in his garage in Lawrence, produces
computer software for the blind. Some of the software helps
computers simulate speech; some helps them generate Braille
documents.
   There have been setbacks, as when banks refused to lend
the company $15,000 to renovate the garage. "Banks have
regarded our business efforts as kind of a joke or a hobby,"
says Mr. Hallenbeck, who managed to get a $7,500 charitable
grant and a $7,500 personal bank loan. But Kansys had about
$25,000 in sales in 1989 and expects to be profitable by
1993, Mr. Hallenbeck says. "Our credibility is greatly
enhanced," he says, "because we're knowledgeable users of our
own products."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Justices, in Blow to Film Industry,
   Rule Copyright Holds for Reissues
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel and David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   MCA NWS PCI OPC SNE
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Supreme Court, in a setback to the film industry,
ruled that the re-release of the Alfred Hitchcock movie "Rear
Window" in 1983 violated the copyright for the story on which
it was based.
   The 6-3 ruling means that MCA Inc., actor Jimmy Stewart,
and Mr. Hitchcock's estate will have to share revenue from
the re-release of the film and distribution on videocassette
with Sheldon Abend, a literary agent who now owns the
copyright for the short story.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ruling, written by Justice Sandra O'Connor, also will
have far-reaching effects not only on the film industry but
on all producers of works that rely on other copyrighted
material.
   The decision places a cloud over the rights to revenues
produced by a large number of works: those that were based on
other copyrighted material, that were made before a new
federal copyright law took effect in 1978 and for which the
owner of the original copyright died before that copyright
could be renewed. Before 1978, all copyrights lasted 28 years
and could be renewed for another 28-year term.
   Mr. Abend estimated that there are more than 600
feature-length motion pictures based on literary works where
the authors died in the first term of copyright and the
copyright was validly renewed by their heirs. "What this
means is that these major studios will have to stop
distributing these movies and clear them with the estates and
give the heirs a fair chance" to share in the profits, Mr.
Abend said.
   Stephen Kroft, a Beverly Hills, Calif., lawyer who filed a
friend-of-the-court brief for major motion picture studios
and distributors, said: "This will affect a lot of works
besides films. There will be a lot of uncertainty about
copyrights for a long time. Somebody who exploits copyrighted
works is going to have to research extensively the history of
the copyright."
   But Peter Anderson, a lawyer in Santa Monica, Calif., who
represents Mr. Abend, said the ruling is a "victory" for
original, artistic creators.
   The amount to which Mr. Abend is entitled will be
determined by a federal court in a hearing; a federal appeals
court estimated that the re-release yielded $12 million in
revenue from 1983 to 1988. The federal court also will have
to determine Mr. Abend's share of future revenue.
   The short story, "It Had to Be Murder," was written in
1942 by Cornell Woolrich. In 1945, he sold the film rights to
a movie company and, in 1954, "Rear Window," starring Mr.
Stewart and Grace Kelly, was released. The author promised
that the movie company could distribute the film for both the
copyright and renewal periods. But Mr. Woolrich died in 1968
before he could renew the copyright. In 1969, the executors
of his estate renewed the copyright and sold it in 1971 to
Mr. Abend for $650.
   After "Rear Window" was re-released in 1983, Mr. Abend
sued. A federal district court in Los Angeles dismissed the
lawsuit, but a federal appeals court in San Francisco
reversed the decision.
   The legal question was whether the producer of a film or
other work that relies, with permission, on copyrighted
materials may continue to distribute that work during the
28-year renewal period. The high court said that the producer
of a work that uses copyrighted material with valid
permission can't continue to distribute that work during the
renewal period, unless the original creator properly renewed
the first copyright.
   Justice John Stevens dissented, joined by Chief Justice
William Rehnquist and Justice Antonin Scalia.
   Mr. Abend's lawyer, Mr. Anderson, said the ruling will
return the law that governs work based on copyrighted
material to its original purpose. "The effect of the law was
to ensure that the real creators of a work would benefit from
the exploitation of their works, as would their families
after they died," Mr. Anderson said.
   But Mr. Kroft, who filed the brief for the film industry,
said: "Where the copyright renewal rights are owned by a
successor, they've got a noose around the producers now" of
works derived from copyrighted material.
   The movie producers and distributors for whom Mr. Kroft
spoke declined yesterday to comment separately on the
decision. These included Columbia Pictures Industries Inc., a
unit of Sony Corp.'s Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc.;
Orion Pictures Corp.; Paramount Pictures Corp., a unit of
Paramount Communications Inc.; and Fox Film Corp., a unit of
Rupert Murdoch's News Corp.
   A spokesman for Mr. Stewart said the actor didn't have any
comment on the Supreme Court's decision.
   "This has put a whole number of works in limbo," said
Louis P. Petrich, who represented MCA and the other
defendants. "All the works created from 1962 to 1977 that are
subject to renewal are going to become like lepers, because
if you use them in creating a new work, there's always the
potential that they're going to be like a little time bomb."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Interest Rates Rise Sharply
   At Citicorp Paper Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate rose to 8.3725% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs, from 8.227% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $410 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.37% to 8.375%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp also said the average rate rose to 8.395% at its
$50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from 8.19% at
last week's sale. Bids totaling $400 million were submitted.
Accepted bids ranged from 8.385% to 8.40%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity next Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Brokerages Put the Squeeze on Investors
   ----
   By Barbara Donnelly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MER PWJ SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   When demand for cars is weak, Detroit rushes out rebates
and cut-rate financing plans in an effort to attract
customers.
   But that isn't the way it works on Wall Street.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As low demand for stocks and other investments continues
to depress commission revenues, the big, full-service
brokerage firms are making individual investors pay more for
their accounts.
   "There's no question that firms are feeling the revenue
pinch and are taking steps to alleviate it," says Hardwick
Simmons, chairman of the private client group at Shearson
Lehman Hutton Inc. "They're looking in places that should
have been looked at before but that, for one reason or
another, the better markets obscured."
   Among the places they're looking, Wall Street executives
concede, is the customer's pocketbook. Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
and Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. have raised posted
commission rates by an average of 6% to 10% since early last
year.
   Fees are up 23% on Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.'s Cash Management
Accounts, which combine a basic brokerage account with a
money-market fund, check-cashing privileges and other
services. PaineWebber Inc. is also considering price
increases on similar accounts.
   At the same time, more and more servicing costs that used
to be profitably covered by commission revenues are now being
"unbundled" and passed on directly to the customer.
Traditional "freebies" -- such as sending out monthly account
statements, handling dividend and interest payments and
back-office processing of trades -- are becoming separate
services the investor has to buy.
   Even investors who don't trade are feeling the bite. Every
major Wall Street broker except Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. now
imposes a so-called inactive account fee on investors who
don't generate enough commissions, either individually or per
household.
   The firms say the charges are relatively inexpensive for
the custodial services they offer -- well below what
comparable trust services would cost elsewhere. "The industry
is going through a process of `fairness' -- getting paid for
services rendered," says Joseph J. Grano, president of retail
sales and marketing at PaineWebber. "Where else are you going
to have your coupons clipped, and your dividends, quarterly
reports and statements sent out -- all for $50 a year? It's
the cheapest deal I ever heard of."
   But the commission increases and additional fees don't sit
well with investors. That's especially true at a time when
many individuals have been pulling in their horns, unloading
a net $104 billion of stocks they owned last year through
direct holdings in brokerage accounts.
   "There's hidden charges all over the place, and after a
while it makes you crazy," says David Traino, a 45-year-old
retired store owner. Mr. Traino protested a new charge for
tendering shares that was recently imposed by
Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott Inc. "What really
upset me was that the sheet I filled out for tendering the
shares said I would not be obligated to pay brokerage fees or
commissions."
   Janney Montgomery -- which has since softened its initial
policy of charging half the applicable commission on tenders,
and now charges a flat $40 fee instead -- says the move was
necessary because of the increasingly costly work involved in
such transactions. The firm also says that it has fewer fees
and lower commissions overall compared with its big Wall
Street rivals because, as a regional broker, its operating
costs are lower.
   Nonetheless, Mr. Traino, who has had an account at Janney
Montgomery for 20 years, is thinking of switching brokers. He
isn't alone.
   After one New York firm, which asks not to be identified,
imposed an inactive-account fee on a sizable fraction of its
client base, at least as many customers left as agreed to
pay. Of the customers subject to the levy, 25% got special
exemptions, 30% paid the fee, 30% left the firm and 15% were
spurred to do a trade or generate other revenue to avoid the
fee, a top executive says.
   Even some brokerage-industry executives don't like the
unbundled charges. "The people who are nickel and diming
their customers just because revenues are down are making a
big mistake," says Smith Barney's chief executive, Frank
Zarb.
   Like other big firms, Smith Barney imposes an
inactive-account fee and charges for postage and handling.
And it gets as much as $200 a year for its money-management
account. But Mr. Zarb says those charges are justified by the
level of service his firm's customers receive. "The notion
that you've got to jack up fees to cover costs is sometimes
valid -- but only if you're charging a fair return and
providing extra service or some other value-added," he says.
   Many brokers say they have little choice but look for ways
to bring in money. "Everyone's doing something now to enhance
revenues," says Charles Sheehan, chief financial officer at
Kidder Peabody. The reason is that "when volume is down, your
fixed costs are spread across fewer transactions -- so unit
costs come under a lot of pressure."
   Moreover, many Wall Street executives say, the drive to
make individual investors shoulder a greater share of the
costs goes beyond today's slow business climate. "To some
extent, the changes are evolutionary," says Mr. Sheehan.
"There's a growing feeling (on Wall Street) that we are
providing services for some customers who are not doing
anything to compensate the firm."
   Still, there is a bit of good news for some brokerage
customers. Prudential-Bache had considered boosting its $30
inactive-account fee, or "client service retainer," to a
hefty $175 a year. Now the firm says it will probably adopt
the $50 charge levied by most of its major competitors.
   Shearson -- which led the march toward higher customer
charges until early 1989 -- was alone among the major firms
in shunning new fees in the past year. Instead, the firm has
trimmed some services -- for instance, customer statements
that used to be sent out monthly are now going out only
quarterly.
   ---
              How Some Brokerage Fees Compare
                                                                                                       

                    FEES FOR   POSTAGE &amp;    MONEY-
                    INACTIVE   HANDLING     MANAGEMENT
                    ACCOUNTS*  (Per         ACCOUNTS**
                    (Per year) transaction) (Per year)
                                                                                                       

 Dean Witter           None      $2.35          $80
 Kidder Peabody        $50        2.00           90
 Merrill Lynch          35        2.35           80
 PaineWebber            50***     1.90           60****
 Prudential-Bache       30****    1.75****       75
 Shearson Lehman        50        2.00          100
 Smith Barney           50        2.00       40-200
                                                                                                       

   *Doesn't apply to money-management account customers
   **Accounts that combine basic brokerage account with
money-market fund, check-cashing previleges and other
services
   ***Per 18 months
   ****Increase under consideration
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Two Steel Firms'
   1st-Period Profit
   Fell Sharply
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   X BS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   The nation's two biggest steelmakers, hurt by reduced
volume and pricing, posted sharply lower first-quarter
earnings.
   USX Corp. profits slid 41% to $176 million, or 66 cents a
share, from $296 million, or $1.09 a share, a year ago.
However, last year's results included $179 million in
one-time special items as well as a pretax gain of $74
million from the sale of assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At Bethlehem Steel Corp., the nation's No. 2 steelmaker,
earnings plunged 68% to $21 million, or 20 cents a share,
from $65 million, or 78 cents a share, a year ago. On an
operating basis, the fall was sharper because last year's
first quarter included a $55 million restructuring charge.
   Still, some industry analysts were pleasantly surprised at
the earnings performance of both USX and Bethlehem and
believe a recent uptick in orders portends second-quarter
improvements.
   "I'm surprised at how well they did," said John Jacobson,
an analyst with AUS Consultants. "Five or six years ago,
steelmakers' ability to adapt to lower pricing and somewhat
weaker demand wasn't nearly as good."
   A year ago, the industry was enjoying relatively strong
demand and firm pricing. But business began dropping off in
the second half of 1989 as auto makers cut back on production
and world steel prices fell. Those trends continued into the
first quarter. Recently, though, business appears to have
strengthened.
   In the recent quarter, USX's steel segment reported a 39%
drop in operating profit to $60 million from $99 million a
year ago. Sales dropped to $1.3 billion from $1.5 billion.
Both drops reflect lower steel prices and the sale of the
company's Lorain, Ohio, works to a joint venture with Kobe
Steel of Japan last year.
   USX earned about $23 a ton of steel shipped, higher than
most analysts' projections of $15 to $18 a ton. Analyst John
Tumazos of Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities believes
stronger orders in the last part of the quarter boosted
profit.
   USX's performance was aided by Marathon Oil, which
benefited from higher crude oil prices. Marathon's operating
profit rose to $242 million from $241 million; the
year-earlier quarter included a $60 million gain related to
inventory valuation.
   Texas Oil &amp; Gas, which USX put on the block last year,
continued its disappointing performance. It reported a loss
of $5 million, compared with operating profit of $147 million
a year ago. Last year's quarterly results at the natural gas
unit included a $144 million gain from the settlement of
lawsuits.
   Bethlehem's biggest problem, meanwhile, was in its basic
steel operations, where operating profit plummeted 79% to $29
million from $137 million a year ago. A key factor in the
segment's disappointing showing was a 19% drop in steel
shipments and lower operating rates. Bethlehem's operating
rates fell to 70% from 82%, giving it fewer tons to absorb
fixed-interest and labor costs.
   At the same time, Bethlehem's operating costs were higher
because of a labor pact signed last year with United
Steelworkers of America, as well as outages at its blast
furnaces.
   Losses at Bethlehem's steel-related operations narrowed
markedly to $4 million from $63 million a year ago, when the
company took a $55 million charge to shrink its Baltimore
Marine division.
   Bethlehem said that as a result of recent order
improvements, the industry may ship more than the originally
expected 77 million tons this year. That would be lower,
however, than the 84 million tons shipped last year.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
USX shares closed at $32.75, down 25 cents, and Bethlehem
closed unchanged at $17.625.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Florida to Begin Spraying
   For Fruit Fly Protection
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   OPA LOCKA, Fla. -- State agriculture officials said they
plan to begin spraying parts of south Florida to combat a
possible infestation of Mediterranean fruit flies.
   Officials said yesterday that they had discovered a fifth
Medfly in Dade County. The first fly was discovered about a
week ago. The flies are a potentially serious threat to the
state's extensive citrus crops.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The state plans to fight the flies in two ways: aerial
spraying of malathion and the release of millions of sterile
flies. The sterile flies mate with the wild Medflies to
produce non-fertile eggs.
   While discussing the sprayings, Doyle Conner, the state's
commissioner of agriculture, said, "In spite of the recent
adverse publicity in California, there is overwhelming
scientific evidence that aerial application of malathion
doesn't pose any significant public health concern."
   Officials said they will widely publicize dates and times
of the sprayings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Digital Equipment, Apple
   To Unveil Joint Products
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DEC AAPL
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Digital Equipment Corp. and Apple Computer Inc. will
announce long-awaited products next week that tie their
computers together.
   The expected products are the first fruits of a widely
heralded technology alliance disclosed two years ago. Kenneth
H. Olsen, Digital's president, and Apple's chief executive
officer, John Sculley, will show off the products next
Tuesday in New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The software products permit Apple computers to operate
easily in Digital networks, sharing data files, printers and
other devices.
   The companies view the alliance as a strategic one, though
they concede it isn't likely to set off a flood of new sales.
Analysts say it should help Apple's prospects in commercial
and industrial accounts, where Apple has been slow to
penetrate, while shoring up Digital's appeal to desktop
computer users, where it historically has been weak. Digital,
based in Maynard, Mass., will market the products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   California Democrats Seek Support
   From Labor Over Reapportionment
   ----
   By Jill Abramson and Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Top California Democrats, who have launched
a drive to defeat two Republican-backed reapportionment
plans, asked organized labor to give $1 million to the effort
in lieu of regular campaign contributions.
   Yesterday, after other California lawmakers resisted the
unusual proposal, and after inquiries were made by this
newspaper, the state's Democratic House delegation abandoned
it. But the lawmakers still are moving forward with an
aggressive "soft money" fund-raising campaign even as
Congress debates ending or limiting such contributions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Soft money, which consists of contributions to state party
organizations and state-level political committees, falls
outside of the limits and disclosure requirements of the
federal election laws.
   The California Democrats' goal is to raise at least $2
million, according to several people involved in the effort.
Labor almost certainly will still be asked to make a
significant contribution, although not as part of the swap
initially proposed at a meeting of delegation members with
labor leaders earlier this month. Other major Democratic
donors in California are also being asked to make big
contributions.
   State Rep. Vic Fazio heads the California Democrats'
reapportionment drive, known as IMPAC 2000. He denied that
labor was given any specific contribution target, but other
people who are knowledgeable about the meeting said the $1
million figure was discussed. Mr. Fazio also asserted that
there is nothing untoward about soliciting labor support for
such an important effort. He said Republicans are pouring
hundreds of thousands of dollars to try to pass the
initiatives, which, he added, "aren't something that were put
on the ballot by public citizens' groups."
   The use of soft money is especially sensitive in
California since the disclosure that U.S. Sen. Alan Cranston
(D., Calif.) received more than $800,000 in soft-money
contributions from savings-and-loan executive Charles Keating
for voter-registration drives. Sen. Cranston faces a Senate
Ethics Committee investigation into his ties to Mr. Keating.
   As many as a dozen of the 27 Democratic incumbents in
California could be endangered when House districts are
redrawn starting next year, according to several political
analysts in the state. The two June ballot propositions, both
of which are supported by the Republican Party, would change
the way redistricting is done. One would set up a panel of
retired judges to handle reapportionment. The other would
require a two-thirds vote of both houses of the California
Legislature to adopt a reapportionment plan. Current law
requires approval only by a simple majority of the
legislature, which is controlled by the Democrats.
   If both measures pass, the one with the largest number of
votes would be adopted.
   Over the past few weeks, some of the Democrats in the
California delegation began to resist the proposed
arrangement with labor, at least in part because they need
labor contributions themselves. At least two of the members
in tough contests were to be exempt from the swap, but a
wider reluctance to forgo the campaign income apparently
killed the effort.
   In addition, even though the monies would have come from
several unions, at least some of the lawmakers privately
worried about the appearance of taking so much from a single
interest group. Labor leaders themselves had been skittish
about the proposed swap.
   Several prominent Democratic donors, including film
producer and investor Frederick Field, have been asked to
make large contributions to California IMPAC 2000. Besides
that effort, Democrats in the California state Legislature
also have fundraising campaigns in high gear. Altogether,
California Democrats hope to raise more than $5 million to
defeat the ballot propositions.
   Republicans, meanwhile, have their own big soft-money
program to pass the two propositions. According to Bob Marks,
campaign director for one of the proposition drives,
supporters of the two ballot initiatives have already raised
more than $1 million and hope to raise at least $2.5 million
more. A $400,000 television advertising campaign has been
budgeted.
   The Republican National Committee has kicked in more than
$500,000 to support the two propositions. David Packard,
finance chairman of Californians for Political Reform, one of
the ballot proposition groups, has contributed $25,000.
Donald Fisher, chairman of the Gap Inc. clothing-store chain,
gave $10,000. A number of law firms and oil companies have
made large donations as well.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ames Stores' Securities Slump as Firm
   Hires Skadden Arps to Explore Options
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   ADD
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ames Department Stores Inc.'s stock and bonds tumbled
further yesterday, amid growing speculation that the troubled
discount department store chain could soon seek shelter from
its creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy
Code.
   Speculation was fueled by a report that the cash-strapped
chain has hired the New York law firm of Skadden Arps Slate
Meagher &amp; Flom to prepare papers for a possible Chapter 11
filing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Skadden Arps spokesman confirmed the firm had been
retained by Ames "to explore various restructuring
alternatives." But he declined to say specifically if Ames
was planning to file for bankruptcy-law protection. The
hiring of Skadden Arps was initially reported in the Hartford
(Conn.) Courant.
   Ames shares closed at $1.375, down 62.5 cents, in heavy
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The
company's 7 1/2% subordinated convertible debentures, which
had been trading over $50 for each $100 face value as
recently as mid-March, fell to $10.75 from $14.25.
   Ames officials didn't return phone calls seeking comment.
   The future of Ames, based in Rocky Hill, Conn., has been
in question since the company reported earlier this month
that it expects to report a $228 million loss for the year
ended Jan. 27 because of problems with the Zayre discount
chain it acquired two years ago. The company said it plans to
close 74 of its 680 stores because of the problems, and is
negotiating with its banks for a new credit agreement.
   Whether or not Ames decides to make a bankruptcy-court
filing, hiring a bankruptcy specialist could help current
negotiations with its bankers. "It's a way of saying, `We're
going to pull the trigger unless you, the lenders, go along
with us,'" said Howard Davidowitz, a retail and financial
consultant in New York.
   He added: "The big question stalling those negotiations is
who gets the money from the disposition of those {74} stores.
Naturally the banks want it," he added, noting that Ames
already has violated certain conditions set by its lenders.
   Last week, Ames announced that it had been granted one
waiver and that it was requesting a further waiver from
Citibank, the lead bank in a group of approximately 20
institutions.
   Because of its financial problems, Ames hasn't paid a
number of retailers for recent shipments of merchandise,
retailers say. Unable to reach the company by telephone,
several retailers have visited officials in person at the
company headquarters. But they were told by the company that
the banks have ordered a hold of payment to vendors.
   Some, however, don't believe that Ames is about to throw
in the towel. "I doubt if they're going to declare
bankruptcy," noted Kurt Barnard, a New York publisher of a
retail newsletter. "Over half the stores, the Ames stores,
are doing well," he said. "Before filing {for bankruptcy
protection} they could just get rid of the Zayre chain
altogether."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Rate Fears
   Force Stocks
   Down Again
   ---
   Bonds Finish Steady
   After Drop on Data;
   Dollar Closes Mixed
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- For the second day in a row, interest rate
worries sank stock prices but left bonds about unchanged. The
dollar closed mixed against the major currencies.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 12.17 to 2654.50,
the average's fifth consecutive decline. Long-term Treasury
bonds, which zig-zagged higher and lower during the day,
closed nearly unchanged with the yield on the benchmark
30-year bond at 8.96%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A bigger-than-expected increase in durable goods orders in
March initially caused bonds to fall and stocks to rise. But
the reaction to the data subsided as analysts came to view
the orders gain as simply offsetting declines in January and
February.
   Bond yields will probably hit 9% before falling below
8.5%, analysts predict, and stock investors just can't get
those higher yields out of mind. Nothing seems like a "safe"
investment these days. For example, Compaq Computer, which
analysts expect to report slightly higher earnings tomorrow
saw nervous investors walk away from the stock yesterday,
pushing it down more than 3 at one point; it closed down 1
7/8 at 94 5/8.
   As a result of that kind of queasiness, declining issues
again stepped ahead of advancing issues on the New York Stock
Exchange by 833 to 652. "All trends are down; broader
averages are masking the declines in the broad market," said
Paul Lesutis, director of Provident Capital Management.
"There is no real evidence that stocks are bottoming."
   Mr. Lesutis and other investors think stocks are too
high-priced to compete with the yields on Treasury
securities. Indeed, small investors are finding Treasury bond
yields attractive, says Douglas McAllister, vice president at
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. Last month,
Prudential-Bache's Treasury order desk for small investors
had the most business in its history, Mr. McAllister says,
and the pace hasn't slackened since. "Many small investors
are not content with consumer deposit" yields, Mr. McAllister
says.
   In major market activity:
                                                                                                       

   Stocks finished lower. Volume on the New York Stock
Exchange totaled 137,360,000 shares.
                                                                                                       

   Bonds were unchanged. Prices on short-term Treasury notes
were down less than $1 for each $1,000 face amount.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar finished mixed. In late New York trading, the
dollar was quoted at 1.6980 marks and 158.93 yen compared
with 1.6995 marks and 157.60 yen late Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ill Street Aims to Cash In on Others' Woes
   ---
   Forced Reshapings
   Offer Ironic Potion
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MER SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Wall Street is seeking to capitalize on the
forced reshaping of corporate America.
   Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., predicting a string of financial
problems that will trigger corporate restructurings, is
expanding its presence in the high-yield, high-risk "junk"
bond market to take advantage of the investment banking
opportunities caused by corporations' fiscal woes. Merrill
becomes the latest -- and biggest -- Wall Street securities
firm hunting for big profits in the restructuring business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Merrill is counting in particular on an increase in the
already rising number of corporate bankruptcies, as more
companies face credit crunches such as the one that put
Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc. out of business. The
bankruptcy-law filings, and threats of them, might create
years of active business for investment bankers.
   "Reorganizations and reshapings of companies will mount,
and it's spreading around the world," Jerome P. Kenney,
Merrill's head of capital markets, said in an interview. "We
intend to be the leader in the new shape of it."
   Bankruptcy-law filings in 1989 and so far this year aren't
as numerous as they were in the mid-1980s, when the rust,
farm and energy belts were hurt by a near-depression -- but
they are rising. More important from Wall Street's
perspective, the companies involved are getting bigger, with
$500 million to $1 billion bankruptcy-law cases becoming
common, rather than rare.
   Aside from bankruptcy opportunities, investment bankers
also foresee restructuring business, as companies seek to
raise money by spinning off units that aren't able to issue
investment-grade bonds. The bankers are desperate for some
kind of business these days; investment banking revenue at
most major brokerage firms in the first quarter was down 20%
to 25% from a year earlier, reflecting the low number of
merger deals and underwriting opportunities.
   Though the fees from restructuring deals are unlikely ever
to approach those of the lucrative leveraged buy-outs that
made investment bankers rich until recently, they are still
attractive.
   Firms such as Bear Stearns Cos., Salomon Inc., CS First
Boston Inc. and American Express Co.'s Shearson Lehman Hutton
Inc. unit also are active in the restructuring field.
Primerica Corp.'s Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. unit,
another big player, recently snapped up Drexel's 23-member
financial-restructuring unit. Even Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., a
General Electric Co. unit that never had much visibility in
junk bonds, has beefed up its restructuring operations.
   Shearson, the second-biggest U.S. brokerage firm behind
Merrill, has been shrinking nearly all of its businesses as
part of a huge retrenchment effort. Yet a spokesman said
restructurings are still "an important and growing area for
us." A Shearson executive said that in the firm's 10-member
restructuring group, "The guys are running around like crazy"
these days.
   Reshaping companies could be just the potion that an ill
Wall Street needs. The Street since the 1987 stock market
crash has been in the throes of a profits recession, if not a
depression. The irony: The Street now is relying on hard
times in other sectors to bail it out.
   Cynics say Wall Street is always prepared to cash in on
others' problems, even those the Street itself helped create.
Wall Street was midwife to some of the current problems
companies are facing by helping them dig too deeply into debt
in the 1980s.
   George Putnam III, publisher of Boston-based Bankruptcy
DataSource, which tracks companies in bankruptcy-law
proceedings, said that the way Wall Street is relying on a
bankruptcy binge to make money is "odd, to say the least."
But he said, "There is a legitimate role for investment
bankers in the area," and the opportunities will multiply for
at least the rest of this year.
   Merrill's push has particularly caught the brokerage
industry's eye. Because Merrill "is the biggest brokerage
firm and presumably has the most resources to throw at {the
restructuring business}, it's interesting that they see an
opportunity here," Mr. Putnam said.
   Merrill said its restructuring focus, including what Chief
Financial Officer Thomas Patrick called an "increasing
commitment to the junk-bond market," is a natural response to
the stepped-up amount of "distress situations" among its
corporate clients.
   U.S. public corporations are making bankruptcy-law filings
at the rate of more than two a week. Merrill's Mr. Kenney
said this trend should "worsen over the next nine months, and
then bottom out until it gets better." But even then, there
are millions of dollars to be made by investment bankers;
many bankruptcy-law reorganizations take years to complete,
so even a slowdown in filings this year wouldn't kill the
business.
   To capitalize on the trend, Merrill is expanding its team
of investment bankers specializing in so-called workouts, the
fixing of distressed companies. The workout team, set up four
years ago with only two or three bankers, now has about 20
and may increase to 30 shortly, Mr. Kenney said.
   But Wall Street's new restructuring push has pitfalls. To
do what they want, investment banks need to increase their
commitment to the junk-bond market, because junk paper is
usually involved in the restructuring of distressed
companies. Some Merrill stockholders said they are troubled
by Merrill's increased emphasis on the troubled junk market,
which Drexel once dominated.
   At Merrill's annual meeting last week, for example,
holders queried Merrill officials about whether a plunge into
junk is a risk worth taking for a firm that, because of a big
retrenchment plan, posted a net loss for 1989 of $213.4
million. But William A. Schreyer, Merrill chairman, said junk
is a $200 billion market, so Merrill must be heavily involved
in it to serve clients. "There is junk and there is garbage,"
Mr. Schreyer said, "and the idea is to avoid the garbage."
   Merrill emphasized that it isn't expanding its inventories
of junk bonds. Pressed by the major credit-rating companies,
Wall Street brokerage firms have been trimming their junk
inventories, rather than expanding them.
   The credit-rating concerns have a big role in the
corporate restructuring boom that Merrill and other brokerage
firms foresee, however. Mr. Kenney of Merrill said one reason
so many corporations will be seeking bankruptcy-law
protection is pressure from credit-rating concerns worried
about liquidity problems at otherwise healthy firms. Drexel
was forced into bankruptcy court because it was unable to
secure short-term financing.
   Such "liquidity-induced deals" will predominate in the
expected wave of collapses, Mr. Kenney said. And along with
the credit-rating companies' pressure will come pressure from
lenders who will precipitate bankruptcy-law filings by
pulling away from lending. "I think you're going to see
{more} bank-caused filings," Mr. Kenney said.
   Some analysts warned that Wall Street shouldn't get too
giddy about the potential for the restructuring business.
Michael Goldstein, a brokerage analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein &amp; Co., said he thinks there isn't "enough revenue
potential in bankruptcies to offset the declines" in mergers,
leveraged buy-outs and related takeover-speculation
businesses. "I'm not sure how big the revenue potential of
this entire market will ultimately be," Mr. Goldstein said,
though on a depressed Wall Street, "something is better than
nothing."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Deadbeat Critic Storms Bastille
   ----
   By Manuela Hoelterhoff
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- Pierre Berge was over here earlier this month
hoping to raise some money for the Opera Bastille in Paris.
As it happens, I was in Paris at the Bastille at the very
same time, trying to give him some. I hope Mr. Berge had an
easier time of it.
   Mr. Berge is the director of all the opera theaters in
Paris, and thus chief of the Bastille, the new opera house
whose delayed opening kept so many of us entertained for so
long. I am confident that the Bastille's stage one day will
offer a spectacle even more satisfying than Mr. Berge's
firing of artistic director Daniel Barenboim, he of the
inflated conducting talent, huge salary and house-sized ego.
But that day still is in the future.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I say this having finally caught up with "Les Troyens,"
the epic opera by Hector Berlioz that had opened the house
last month to a generally friendly reception from most papers
including our own. Perhaps I too would have belatedly joined
the chorus of praise meeting this rare presentation of a work
whose complexity and prodigious length is such an immense
challenge to performers and audience alike. But I already was
in a weakened state when the curtain rose.
   If the gate to Troy had been guarded by the same
"bouldogue" who sits in the Bastille box office, history
would be different. Anyone contemplating a visit to the
Bastille better be ready for a long siege.
   "If you don't give me my ticket, I'll kill you]" I thought
the American on line in front of me was out of control,
shouting like that into the ticket window. Then it was my
turn.
   I had done everything to assure a smooth entry into
architect Carlos Ott's opera house. Heaven knows you don't
want to linger outside this charmless melange of concrete,
stone and steel already showing the clammy hand of Parisian
pollution.
   From a sullen press office, our Paris bureau had extracted
the promise of a 540franc ($95) ticket to be picked up at the
box office. (The "people's opera," as the Bastille likes to
call itself, must be redefining class structure.)
   "Qu'est-ce que c'est?" the "vache" now mooed, staring at a
piece of paper with my reservation number as if I had just
handed her a small bomb. (Next time]) But it isn't every day
you actually get a question straight out of a beginner's
French manual. "C'est mon numero de dossier]" I responded
eagerly. Above me, a TV monitor -- just one of the many
modern gadgets accoutering this triumphantly high-tech house
-- was running rehearsal scenes showing Shirley Verrett as
broken-hearted Dido, flopping to the floor in deep despair.
   But what really did the Queen of Carthage know about the
deepest depths of despair? She never had to buy a ticket to
her own opera] Which is what I proceeded to do for the next
hour.
   4:50 p.m.: Much puzzled staring into the computer. "Maybe
it comes."
   "Where's it coming from? It's supposed to be here."
   (Shrug)
   5:10, back to the same window. Blank-faced reception. "No,
not here. Next window."
   The next window. "Yes, I see the number. But there is no
ticket. For the ticket you must go to the next window."
   Which is the original window. Back on line. Boy, can't
wait to see Verrett flop down in real life, now that I've
seen it on tape at least nine times. It was 5:20. There was
still no ticket.
   In between I tried information, which had no information
and sent me back to the box-office harpy.
   "What is your name? WHAT? WHAT?"
   This went on for the next five minutes while other
customers, nearly as desperate, broke into the line. Golly,
Shirley has certainly put on weight. Back to the window.
"WHAT? WHAT?"
   "Ache comme Hector, O comme Olympe, E comme Elpenor . . ."
Suddenly, at 5:40, "mirabile dictu", the ticket mysteriously
walked itself into the computer. Now all I had to do was pay
for it. I gave her my credit card and got another "Is this a
bomb?" look.
   Well, the Bastille is a high-tech kind of place, but as
Pier Luigi Pizzi, the show's designer, found out, they're
still working on the technology. He was told to design sets
that could be pushed on stage manually because the Bastille's
incredibly expensive turntables don't turn.
   It was now 10 minutes to curtain time, and I was turning.
I was turning my pockets inside out, shedding coat and
jacket, looking for 540 francs. The credit-card telephone
hookups weren't working either.
   I found 520 francs. Wait] Here's more. 535 francs] I
pushed the crumpled heap of bills through the grill and
begged. I told her how I'd come all the way from America and
how I loved Berlioz best among composers, even more than
Auber. EVEN MORE THAN ADOLPHE ADAM.
   Nothing doing. Only 540 francs would satisfy her and no,
she would not give me a cheaper seat, because the evening was
sold out.
   A small crowd gathered, attracted by my howls. Was I ever
grateful to the preux "chevalier" who stepped over the little
piles of clothing and torn-out hair to give me the missing
five francs, though I would have been even more grateful had
he also given me a food allowance.
   I was now flat broke and condemned to five hours of song
and a one-hour intermission without even enough cash to pay
for a benzene-laced Perrier. That the trio of clean-plate
clubbers onstage clearly hadn't missed a meal in years only
made my agony complete. Neither was this empty feeling
mitigated by Grace Bumbry's totally unmemorable performance
as Cassandra or Ms. Verrett, in slightly better shape,
mysteriously bewailing the departure of a thoroughly
dislikable, tin-voiced Aeneas. The best part was Mr. Pizzi's
sophisticated evocation of doomed civilizations, though the
boat taking Aeneas to Italy did make me wonder just how I was
going to get home.
   No wait, that wasn't the best part. The best part was
going to this paper's Paris office and finding a note from
the bureau chief. He was hoping I might reimburse him for the
540 francs he had prepaid with the Bastille press department.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   BN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BORDEN Co. (New York) -- Moody's Investors Service Inc.
lowered the ratings on Borden's long-term debt, citing the
likelihood that cash flow coverage of debt will be at lower
levels than Moody's previously expected for the intermediate
term. Ratings were lowered to single-A-1 from double-A-3 on
various categories of debt. Last fall the food company
announced a restructuring and established a $404 million
after-tax reserve for plant realignments and a shrinking of
its dairy business. Moody's said it believes that the actions
will improve the outlook for earnings and cash generation
ultimately, but in the meantime, "increased marketing
expenditures needed to support brands will consume a
substantial part of the restructuring gains." About $1.2
billion of debt is affected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Mortgage Firms Accused on Escrow Issue
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus and Stephen J. Adler
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   F.PRR LIG LFC FNG GM CCI BTI
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
</GV>
<LP>
   The attorneys general of seven states accused the nation's
mortgage lenders of violating federal law by requiring
homeowners to place more money than necessary in escrow
accounts held by the lenders.
   New York Attorney General Robert Abrams said at a news
conference that, as a result of such long-time practices, the
mortgage lending industry is holding several billion dollars
of homeowners' money unlawfully.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By law, lenders are allowed to establish escrow accounts
to collect and hold money from homeowners to pay for taxes
and insurance on mortgaged property. In all but a few states,
little or no interest is paid to the consumer by the lender
on these accounts.
   But a 1975 amendment to the federal Real Estate Settlement
Procedures Act (Respa) limits the size of the escrow
accounts. Under Respa, lenders are prohibited from requiring
consumers to maintain in the accounts more than one-sixth of
a year's required payments for taxes and insurance. Congress
allowed a two-month cushion to protect the lender's
investment in a house by making sure enough money is set
aside, in case a homeowner defaults on payments.
   The states launched an investigation in June 1988 after a
Long Island, N.Y., homeowner complained about possible escrow
overcharges. A survey of four of the largest lending
organizations, comprising Citicorp's Citibank; General Motors
Corp.'s GMAC Mortgage Corp.; Fleet/Norstar Financial Group
Inc.'s Fleet Mortgage Corp.; and Lomas Financial Corp.,
disclosed overcharging in two-thirds of all home mortgages,
Mr. Abrams said.
   "The cushions sometimes equaled three to five months of
the annual tax and insurance bills, serving no legitimate
purpose to protect the lenders' investment but rather
providing them with more money on which they could earn
greater profits," Mr. Abrams said. The other six states that
conducted the investigation are California, Florida, Iowa,
Massachusetts, Minnesota and Texas.
   According to Mr. Abrams, affected homeowners maintain on
average $150 more in escrow than is permitted by law. In
addition to violating the Respa ceiling, he said that lenders
routinely ignored escrow-account restrictions contained in
their underlying mortgage agreements, meaning the total
amount overcharged could be even higher than the states
suspect.
   The states maintain that the lenders exceed the legal
limits by employing a complicated accounting technique known
as "individual item analysis." Under this system, the lenders
in effect create subaccounts for each type of expenditure
that must come out of the escrow account. By requiring that
each subaccount never go below zero, regardless of how much
money remains in the account as a whole, the lenders end up
with cushions in excess of the two-month ceiling, said New
York Assistant Attorney General Melvin L. Goldberg.
   "The industry standard is to do itemized accounting. I
don't doubt that there are isolated problems, but it's not
widespread. The industry has come a long way in policing
itself on this issue," said Brian Chappelle, staff vice
president of the Mortgage Bankers Association of America, a
trade group.
   "We're puzzled by (Mr. Abrams's) announcement. We don't
set out to create any excess, but any excess beyond the
two-month cushion is automatically returned to the consumer,"
said a spokesman for Citibank. Spokesmen for Lomas and GMAC
said they could not comment, because they had not seen the
report. A Fleet spokesman did not return phone calls.
   Mr. Abrams said the states formally requested 18 months
ago that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
increase enforcement of the escrow limits and develop new
rules on how lenders should compute escrow balances to avoid
any excesses. So far, HUD has taken no action, Mr. Abrams
said. If HUD does not respond, Mr. Abrams said the states
will be forced to file individual lawsuits against the
lenders.
   A HUD spokesman said, "Secretary Jack Kemp fully supports
any efforts to make sure homeowners are not overcharged on
their escrow accounts, but since 1974 HUD has had no
enforcement authority over the escrow accounts. Congress has
asked the department not to publish any new regulations
governing Respa until Congress can hold hearings on the
subject."
   ---
   BROWN &amp; WILLIAMSON Tobacco Corp. seeks reversal or new
trial in $148.8 million case. The Louisville, Ky., cigarette
maker asked U.S. District Judge Frank W. Bullock Jr. in
Greensboro, N.C., to reject a jury's verdict that B&amp;W had
illegally competed with Liggett Group Inc., a Durham, N.C.,
tobacco company.
   The case centers on Liggett's allegation that B&amp;W engaged
in so-called predatory price discrimination in the market for
lowpriced, generic cigarettes in 1984 and 1985. After a
seven-month trial, the jury found last month that B&amp;W
violated the little-used antitrust law known as the
Robinson-Patman Act. However, it rejected Liggett's further
claim that B&amp;W had infringed its trademark on design features
of its packages.
   B&amp;W said that the antitrust verdict, if left to stand,
would "chill the spirit of fair and aggressive competition in
this country, limiting the methods for introducing and
marketing new products."
   Liggett asked the judge to preserve the antitrust verdict
and to grant a new trial on the trademark issue.
   Judge Bullock said he would take at least 60 days to
decide the motion.
   ---
   SOURCE PERRIER is sued by a San Francisco seltzer water
company. With stores beginning to restock Source Perrier
S.A.'s sparkling water after a two-month recall, Seltzer
Sister Bottling Co. has sued the Paris-based company and its
distributors in the U.S., Perrier Group of America Inc. and
Great Waters of France Inc.
   The action was filed in federal court in San Francisco on
behalf of Seltzer Sister and other bottlers of carbonated
water, charging Perrier has violated federal consumer laws.
These laws allow companies to sue competitors in an effort to
collect damages for consumer fraud, according to attorney
Caroline Barron of North &amp; Barron in Phoenix, Ariz.
   Seltzer Sister claims that for 14 years Source Perrier
falsely advertised to U.S. consumers the purity and natural
effervescence of its bottled water. Seltzer Sister is a
five-year-old firm that delivers seltzer water to homes and
restaurants in the San Francisco Bay area. Ms. Barron alleges
that consumers were persuaded to buy Perrier instead of
factory-carbonated water like the kind sold by Seltzer Sister
because they thought Perrier's carbonation was natural and
healthier.
   Neither Perrier nor its attorney could be reached for
comment.
   The seltzer delivery service wants Source Perrier to pay
three times the amount it paid to advertise, or its profits
during the 14-year period, says Ms. Barron. She estimates
damages to run as high as $100 million or more.
   In early April, Perrier recalled all its bottled waters
after North Carolina regulators found some bottles contained
small amounts of benzene, a poisonous liquid shown to cause
cancer in laboratory animals. Source Perrier officials said
that in addition to the water in its famous spring in
Vergeze, France, it separately pumps carbon dioxide gas to
the plant. The gas contains the benzene. Company officials
also disclosed that the gas for its water was filtered in an
effort to remove those chemicals.
   Last week, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration said
Perrier's claim to bottle "naturally sparkling" water is
false.
   ---
   Arthur S. Hayes contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Public Confession:
   Milken Pleads Guilty
   To Six Felony Counts
   And Issues an Apology
   ---
   He Admits Cheating Clients
   And Plotting With Boesky
   To Assist a Posner Raid
   ---
   Teary Scene in the Courtroom
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- He was almost at the end of a detailed
confession when his voice faltered. Michael Milken bent
forward, sobbing, as two of his lawyers rushed to support
him. Suddenly, under the vast ceiling of Manhattan's largest
federal courtroom, the world's once-most-powerful financier,
the bigger-than-life commander of the X-shaped trading desk,
seemed mortal, even frail.
   In contrast, the six felony counts to which Mr. Milken
pleaded guilty yesterday after an intense three-year
government investigation showed the financier at the height
of his power, as founder and head of Drexel Burnham Lambert
Inc.'s high-yield junk-bond department. He was able to order
the country's largest arbitrager to take illegal stock
positions, to conceal the activities of corporate raiders, to
create tax losses and gains, and to create artificial prices
of junk bonds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The six felonies, ranging from conspiracy to securities
and mail fraud to a tax count, were far from the technical
violations of obscure securities laws that many people had
come to expect.
   Together, they portray a financier with such total power
over the junk-bond market Mr. Milken largely created that he
seemed to believe himself beyond the reach of law. And, were
it not for the unforeseen confession of a co-conspirator,
former arbitrager Ivan F. Boesky, he probably would have
been.
   Four of the six counts directly involved Mr. Boesky,
establishing the accuracy of much of what Mr. Boesky told
prosecutors at the time of his own plea bargain in 1986. The
other two involve David Solomon, the head of a junk-bond
mutual fund and a former Drexel client who was granted
immunity from prosecution and has been cooperating in the
government's investigation of Mr. Milken.
   The six crimes show that Mr. Milken:
   -- Defrauded investors by unlawfully concealing the fact
that hostile suitor Golden Nugget Inc. had sold its position
in the stock of MCA Inc.;
   -- Cheated clients of Drexel and Mr. Solomon's investment
partnership by falsely reporting to them the prices at which
securities had been bought and sold, with Mr. Milken's
high-yield department pocketing the difference;
   -- Forced an unwilling Fischbach Corp. into the hands of
corporate raider Victor Posner by having Mr. Boesky take a
large and unlawfully secret position in the company's stock;
   -- Helped Mr. Solomon evade income taxes by creating
losses for him, and then manufactured gains for him the
following year;
   -- Entered into a criminal conspiracy with Mr. Boesky that
included secret record-keeping involving securities that Mr.
Boesky held in order to illegally conceal their true owners.
   -- Helped Mr. Boesky evade net-capital rules by secretly
agreeing to buy stock from him with the understanding it
would be bought back later at no loss to Drexel.
   While wide-ranging, the counts to which Mr. Milken
admitted guilt are a small fraction of the crimes alleged by
the government in its 98-count indictment or the even-larger
indictment the government said it was prepared to seek as
recently as last Friday, when Mr. Milken accepted the offer
of a plea agreement. The government said the full sweep of
Mr. Milken's allegedly unlawful behavior will be made public
in its pre-sentencing memorandum.
   Mr. Milken was warned by presiding federal district judge
Kimba Wood that the six crimes carry a maximum prison
sentence of 28 years. In addition, Mr. Milken agreed to pay a
fine of $200 million and $400 million into a fund for
restitution as part of his settlement of related Securities
and Exchange Commission charges. Judge Wood said Mr. Milken
would be sentenced on Oct. 1, after the court has had time to
consider sentencing reports from the government and Mr.
Milken's response.
   "I realize that by my acts I have hurt those who are
closest to me," Mr. Milken told the judge as his wife, Lori,
his mother, his brother, Lowell, and several former Drexel
officials looked on. "I am truly sorry. I thank the court for
permitting me to add this apology and for its fairness in
handling this complex case." Mrs. Milken wept as her husband
acknowledged guilt and apologized.
   Judge Wood asked Mr. Milken repeatedly to assure her that
he believed himself to be guilty of the crimes alleged, and
that he hadn't been pressured into pleading guilty and
relinquishing his constitutional right to a jury trial. In
each instance, Mr. Milken said that he was guilty and that he
hadn't been pressured into settlement. He also said he wasn't
taking any drugs, wasn't under the care of a psychiatrist,
and was "clear-headed."
   Both the chief government prosecutor in the case, John
Carroll, and Mr. Milken's principal lawyer, Arthur Liman,
emphasized that Mr. Milken would cooperate fully in the
government's continuing investigation of wrongdoing in the
financial industry. Mr. Carroll said the government would
retain considerable leverage over Mr. Milken even though his
cooperation will commence only after he is sentenced. The
written plea agreement provides that Mr. Milken will speak
with federal officials whenever he is asked and will "fully
and truthfully disclose all information with respect to
Drexel-related activities."
   Given his prominence in so many of the last decade's major
financial developments, from the rise of junk bonds and the
rapid growth of many now-troubled savings and loans to the
leveraged buy-out and hostile takeover booms, Mr. Milken
could be the most valuable guide to the inner workings of
Wall Street the government has ever obtained. If more
wrongdoing exists, he is in a good position to know about it.
Thus his testimony could trigger a wave of new investigations
and pleas.
   At the very least, Mr. Milken's agreement is ominous for
Mr. Posner, who was named with Mr. Milken as a defendant in
the SEC's September 1988 civil complaint. With both Mr.
Boesky and Mr. Milken cooperating, Mr. Posner's position
would seem greatly weakened.
   Robert Morvillo, an attorney for Mr. Posner, said, "The
U.S. Attorney's office has not been involved in any way with
us for a very long period of time, and we are not in the
least concerned about the Milken plea because we assume if he
tells the truth, Victor Posner will be exonerated."
   The government is also known to be investigating some
major junk-bond purchasers that were clients of Mr. Milken,
such as Columbia Savings &amp; Loan Association and First
Executive Corp. Both companies have denied wrongdoing.
   As for Mr. Milken's brother Lowell, a defendant in the
indictment, the government said it would no longer seek
criminal charges against him. This was a crucial aspect of
Mr. Milken's decision to plead. In a statement distributed
after the proceeding in court, Lowell Milken said, "I can
take no satisfaction that the charges against me are being
dropped. They never should have been brought in the first
place, because I have done nothing wrong."
   Attorney General Richard Thornburgh, whose office approved
the settlement, characterized Mr. Milken's crimes as "some of
the most serious efforts undertaken to manipulate and subvert
Wall Street's securities markets." He added that the case
sends a strong message about "crime in the suites: Those
white-collar criminals are never so powerful or clever that
they cannot be caught by diligent and persistent law
enforcement efforts."
   SEC Chairman Richard Breeden, whose office also settled
its case against Mr. Milken, said he was "extremely pleased"
by the $600 million settlement, the largest in the SEC's
history. While he declined to speculate on where Mr. Milken's
cooperation might lead, Mr. Breeden said, "This case clearly
does involve some significant ramifications. We do expect the
testimony and cooperation we will receive will be valuable."
He also noted that by settling the case now, the government
will obtain Mr. Milken's cooperation before so much time
passes that the statute of limitations might bar additional
prosecutions.
   The settlement of the SEC case was filed in the same
courthouse shortly after Mr. Milken's criminal plea. In
addition to the $600 million payment, the SEC settlement bars
Mr. Milken and his brother from the securities industry for
life. Both Milkens signed consent decrees in which they
neither admitted nor denied the sweeping allegations in the
SEC's suit.
   Of the $600 million payment Mr. Milken agreed to, the $200
million that is a fine will go directly to the U.S. Treasury,
a sum that comfortably exceeds the amount the government
spent pursuing the Milken investigation, the prosecutor, Mr.
Carroll, assured Judge Wood. The $400 million portion, to be
administered by the SEC, will be available to satisfy claims
by investors and others who assert that they have been
defrauded by Mr. Milken. Although civil suits have already
been filed against Mr. Milken alleging damages far in excess
of that amount, his attorney, Mr. Liman, told Judge Wood that
he was confident $400 million would be more than adequate,
and that anything left over would go to the government.
   If nothing else, the hundreds of people packed into the
federal courtroom for the criminal plea and many hundreds
more surrounding the courthouse in Foley Square were a
testament to Mr. Milken's continuing celebrity. Entering the
courthouse through the main staircase, Mr. Milken eyed the
crowds and television crews gathered for his sentencing, and
told U.S. marshals escorting him, "It never ceases to amaze
me."
   At first, the courtroom had the almost-festive air of a
reunion. The courtroom crowd included many longtime
supporters of Mr. Milken; scores of lawyers who have worked
on aspects of the Milken and Drexel cases; a large contingent
from the U.S. Attorney's office and the SEC, and dozens of
reporters. There were titters when Mr. Milken, whom Drexel
paid $550 million in one year alone, was told the court would
appoint a lawyer for him if he couldn't afford one. But the
mood suddenly turned somber as Mr. Milken acknowledged guilt
and began describing his crimes.
   During his statement, Mr. Milken defended what will
probably be his most enduring legacy, the junk-bond market.
Although that market has been in turmoil since last fall, Mr.
Milken argued that his admission of guilt is "not a
reflection on the underlying soundness and integrity of the
segment of the capital markets in which we {Drexel}
specialized and which provided capital that enabled hundreds
of companies to survive, expand and flourish."
   Mr. Liman, commenting after the courtroom proceeding,
added that "it is Michael's hope that in the long run,
history will see his violations in context and judge him not
just on the basis of his lapses, but on the basis of the
contributions he made to the economy and to the American
people."
   ---
   Bruce Ingersoll contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Grand Jury
   Indicts 18 People
   On Insurance Roles
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia and Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   S FFC
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal grand jury in San Diego indicted 14 Southern
California lawyers and four other people on charges of
participating in a scheme to defraud insurers of as much as
$50 million.
   The indictment alleges that Lynn Boyd Stites, a Glendale
lawyer, now believed to be living in Gstaad, Switzerland,
organized and controlled this network of lawyers, who often
represented both sides of the same lawsuits. The longer and
more complex these lawyers could make the litigation
involving insurance company policyholders, the higher their
fees ran, the indictment alleges. Insurers were paying the
legal fees for the policyholders who were being sued and had
coverage.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These attorneys were involved in nine major litigations,
which spawned a myraid of other lawsuits and countersuits.
   The indictment also alleges that "the Alliance," as the
network of lawyers and associates is known among prosecutors,
provided funding and administrative support to its various
member lawyers. A bookkeeper was used to keep track of funds
collected by Mr. Stites, who had a kickback arrangement with
each member of the Alliance. Money also was paid to
individual clients while they were defendants in lawsuits
controlled by the Alliance, according to the indictment.
   The 18 defendants were charged with 18 violations under
the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO)
and 18 mail fraud violations. The case is the result of a
continuing investigation by the U.S. Postal Inspection
Service.
   The grand jury indictment included a surprise defendant,
Leonardo Radomile. Mr. Radomile, a San Diego attorney, had
dealings with the Alliance, but he held himself out as an
undercover informant working with the postal inspectors. He
said he often wore a body wire and recorded numerous
conversations with Alliance members for investigators.
   Yet the indictment alleges that Mr. Radomile received
financial assistance from the Alliance to run his law firm,
was compensated by the Alliance for being a defendant in one
case, and that he referred five other major litigations to
the Alliance.
   John Heisner, Mr. Radomile's attorney in San Diego, had no
comment on the indictment.
   Last month, a suit was filed under RICO by Fund American
Cos.' Fireman's Fund Insurance Co. and Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co.'s
Allstate Insurance Co. The suit named 26 defendants, 18 of
whom, including Mr. Stites, are lawyers. It alleges fraud,
conspiracy and mail fraud and seeks $6.3 million in actual
damages. Under RICO, a damage award could be tripled.
   The insurers' suit names many of the same defendants
charged by the grand jury yesterday, but they didn't name Mr.
Radomile.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Intel Corp. Lawsuit
   Says Advanced Micro
   Infringed Copyright
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AMD INTC
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SANTA CLARA, Calif. -- Intel Corp. filed a lawsuit in
federal court in San Francisco against Advanced Micro Devices
Inc., claiming that Advanced infringed on an Intel copyright
on the company's microcode technology.
   Under a 1976 agreement between the two companies, Advanced
Micro is allowed to use and copy the technology for its own
use, but it isn't allowed to distribute it through sales of
its own products. The microcode technology, which is software
that tells a chip how to perform its function, is used in
Intel's 80287 math co-processor.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The dispute began a month ago when Advanced Micro, a
Sunnyvale, Calif., chip maker, told Intel that it planned to
use the company's microcode techology in certain products for
distribution.
   "Obviously, we have a significantly different
understanding," said a spokesman for Advanced Micro. The
spokesman said it is the company's understanding, based on
the 1976 agreement, that Advanced can indeed use the Intel
technology in products beyond internal company use.
   Intel officials, however, maintain that the agreement
specifically bans the use of its technology for anything but
internal applications at Advanced. In its suit, the maker of
computer parts, boards and systems said it is seeking an
injunction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bush Declines
   To Take Steps
   Against Soviets
   ---
   President Hopes Lithuania
   Can Start Negotiating,
   Cites Allies' Reluctance
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush said that for now he won't
impose sanctions against the Soviet Union for its crackdown
on Lithuania, a decision reflecting both his continued hopes
for negotiations and allies' unwillingness to support
sanctions.
   After days of debate within the administration about
whether to cancel talks with the Soviets on economic issues,
Mr. Bush said he still wants to avoid steps that might
provoke a Kremlin backlash and scuttle chances for a
negotiated end to the Lithuanian standoff. Mr. Bush noted
that a Lithuanian delegation is visiting Moscow, and he said
he didn't want to do anything that might reduce its chances
of persuading the Kremlin to open talks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He also indicated his worry that imposing sanctions now
might imperil progress already made in pulling Eastern Europe
out of the Soviet grip. "I'm concerned that we not
inadvertently do something that compels the Soviet Union to
take action that would set back the whole case of freedom
around the world," Mr. Bush told reporters.
   The president's decision means negotiations with the
Soviets in Paris on a broad new trade treaty, as well as
talks on a civil aviation agreement, will proceed as
scheduled this week, the White House said.
   Though the overriding reason for Mr. Bush's decision
appears to be his fear of undermining negotiations over
Lithuania, a widespread distaste for sanctions among U.S.
allies was a factor as well. Mr. Bush himself has been hoping
all along to avoid imposing sanctions for fear that might
spoil the climate for closing big arms-reduction deals with
the Soviets. European allies apparently have reinforced that
feeling by voicing similar concerns in consultations with the
White House over the last few days.
   "Our allies aren't prepared to join in on any sanctions,
and under those circumstances I am not sure that I would
recommend unilateral sanctions," said Rep. Dante Fascell (D.,
Fla.), chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, after
a meeting with Mr. Bush yesterday.
   Some allies are worried that the problems facing Soviet
President Mikhail Gorbachev at the moment are so acute that
U.S. sanctions might be a serious blow to his regime, a
senior administration aide said. U.S. analysts don't think
Mr. Gorbachev is in such dire straits, the official said, but
agree that sanctions might have an especially substantial
impact on him right now.
   Mr. Bush and his aides insist that the administration
could reverse its position at any time and choose to impose
sanctions. In particular, the senior official said, they
would reconsider sanctions if the Kremlin continues to refuse
to open negotiations or further tightens an economic blockade
under which the Soviets already have cut oil, gas and other
supplies to Lithuania.
   Mr. Bush's inclination to avoid acting immediately was
reinforced by a meeting he held yesterday with a delegation
of leading congressional Democrats and Republicans, officials
said. Though some congressional conservatives have been
complaining about Mr. Bush's failure to lash out at the
Soviet Union, both administration aides and lawmakers said
after the meeting that the lawmakers offered general support
for Mr. Bush's cautious approach.
   Rep. Fascell, for instance, repeated a suggestion he's
made before that Mr. Bush cancel a summit meeting schedule
with Mr. Gorbachev for May 30 to June 4. And Sen. Jesse Helms
(R., N.C.) urged Mr. Bush to send a U.S. ambassador to
Lithuania in recognition of the breakaway republic's
declaration of independence.
   Overall, though, there was a "general feeling of support"
for Mr. Bush, said Sen. Claiborne Pell (D., R.I.), chairman
of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
   Still, some signs of brewing unrest in Congress are
emerging. Sen. Robert Byrd (D., W.Va.), chairman of the
powerful Appropriations Committee, declared Sunday in a
Senate speech that he opposes "extending any new economic
benefits to the Soviets so long as they continue to frustrate
the legitimate status of Lithuania as an independent nation."
   In addition to the talks on trade and civil aviation
agreements, the U.S. also has pledged to support observer
status for the Soviet Union at the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade, the West's primary trade-regulation body.
Officials said withdrawing that support also could be a
possible sanction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   Allstate's Drive for Some Brakes
   On Constitutional Violations
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   S
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   "We are the biggest auto insurer in New Jersey," said the
visitor to the Journal a few months ago. "We had a market
share of 22%, it's now 15% and now we'd like it to be much,
much smaller." What? Hoping to lose market share? Indeed,
what might have made the morose official happiest would have
been to change the name of his employer to
Allstates-but-New-Jersey Insurance Co.
   Allstate has done the next best thing. On March 12, New
Jersey Gov. Jim Florio made good on his campaign pledge to
sign an auto-insurance "reform" bill. On April 9, Allstate
sued, with no constitutional holds barred. The case styled
Allstate v. James F. Florio, in his official capacity as
Governor of the State of New Jersey and in his individual
capacity is a refreshing chest-beat by an American company
against destructive government regulation. Win, lose or draw,
this case could be a model for the angry business plaintiff.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   New Jersey has brutal insurance rates (an average of
$1,000 a year) and the lowest profits of any state for
insurers. Drivers have every reason to be livid, but the
Florio plan to sock the insurers is no solution. The real
target must be the state's notorious pocket-picking courts.
The tort crisis has now given way to a constitutional crisis,
featuring legislation mandating an average 20% cut in
premiums.
   Gov. Florio is a Democrat, but both parties are to blame
for the New Jersey mess. The end of anything approaching an
actual insurance market began in the early 1970s with a
no-fault system that quickly became a no-way-defendant-wins
system; huge lawsuits became commonplace on top of the
no-fault liability. Pay-outs soared yet regulators forced
rate cuts. Soon many high-risk drivers couldn't find
insurance.
   Over the objection of insurers, the state created pools
for these drivers with names such as Assigned Risk Plan and
Joint Underwriting Association. These schemes forced insurers
to cover high-risk drivers but didn't allow them to charge
premiums to match their risks. Half the state's drivers have
been in the pool, subsidized by the other half of the drivers
and by the losses sustained by insurers.
   Gov. Florio's bill abolishes the Joint Underwriting
Association, but by forcing insurers to pony up $1.4 billion
of the current $3.1 billion deficit. Drivers will stop paying
more than $200 extra as their contribution to the pool. Also,
insurers won't be able to use factors such as gender and age
in setting rates. A 50-year-old housewife in the suburbs with
a perfect driving record will pay the same as an 18-year-old
man in Newark. Three insurers now plan to stop writing
policies in the state.
   "This lawsuit was not a very easy thing for a regulated
business like ours to do," Michael Duncan says. He's the
Journal visitor above and the assistant general counsel for
Allstate responsible for this lawsuit. "A regulated business
for the most part works awfully hard even at some costs to
itself to get along with the awesome power the state has over
it. But it's like when a bully on your block has you down on
the ground and you're afraid to hit him back because he'll
hit you again. Sometimes you just have no choice."
   Mr. Duncan spent several weeks looking for just the right
lawyers to litigate the case. He says, "We knew we wanted to
treat this case a little differently, to attack this problem
as the creation of a regulatory system based in politics. The
history is that this state through mismanagement and
irresponsible and incompetent regulation created the crisis."
   He picked Floyd Abrams of Cahill Gordon &amp; Reindel, at
first an odd choice since Mr. Abrams is best known for First
Amendment law and liberal politics. But despite the
plaintiff, this is a civil-rights case. University of Chicago
Law Professor Richard Epstein, a top scholar on property
rights, is also advising Allstate.
   The lawsuit against Gov. Florio cites several possible
constitutional infringements of economic liberties, including
some so rarely invoked these days they may be unfamiliar:
   Taking without just compensation: The New Jersey
Department of Insurance issued a report in 1989 that auto
insurers made profits nationwide but over the previous 13
years had an operating loss of more than $500 million in New
Jersey. Allstate expects $40 million a year in added losses
just to pay its share of the Joint Underwriting Association
bailout.
   The firm says in its complaint that the "confiscatory
nature" of the law means it won't get a "fair, adequate or
reasonable rate of return." It cites the Fifth Amendment
prohibition against taking for a public purpose without
compensation.
   Violation of due process: "The overall statutory scheme,"
the complaint says, "is so arbitrary and capricious as to
constitute a denial of the due process guaranteed by the 14th
Amendment."
   Impairment of the obligation of contract: Allstate is one
of several insurers that had a contract with the state Joint
Underwriting Association. The suit notes that the contract
"expressly provided that servicing carriers could not be held
liable for JUA losses or claims." Mr. Abrams says one reason
he was interested in handling this case is its "clear breach
of faith and governmental misbehavior" now to demand that
insurers bail out the fund. The contracts clause prohibits
states from "impairing the obligation of contracts,"
including their own.
   Bill of Attainder: The Constitution prohibits elected
officials from holding trials and establishing the guilt of
private parties, which is precisely what Allstate says New
Jersey has done. The complaint cites candidate Florio's
campaign promise to "send the JUA bill where it belongs: to
the insurance companies." In its findings for the new law,
the state Legislature asserted that "mismanagement by the
insurance companies" cost the JUA nearly $1 billion.
"Allstate and the other insurance companies have," the suit
says, "been tried, convicted and punished by the
legislature."
   It's impossible to predict who will win in court, but at
least Allstate is on the offensive. "They call themselves the
good-hands people," Gov. Florio demagogued at a news
conference. "The question is which part of our anatomy do
they have their good hands around?" He sent a letter to
Allstate President Wayne Hedien telling him to "be assured
that a lawsuit will provide the people of New Jersey the
opportunity to look at Allstate's books."
   Gov. Florio also sent a letter to his insurance
commissioner noting that Allstate "has hired attorneys from
New York and Chicago." He demanded quarterly reports from
Allstate of its litigation costs.
   This lawsuit may be Allstate's best chance to make its
case about who destroyed the insurance market. "We are
perceived by the public as being a big, strong industry.
Political cartoons in New Jersey have little Jimmy Florio
trying to box against the huge giant of insurers," he says.
"But we have a Constitution aimed at limiting governmental
power. Our case is not about economic regulation, but about a
state trying to punish us for what the government says we did
to hurt consumers, but that actually the government did."
   New Jersey taxpayers must now bear the costs of defending
the governor from this lawsuit. These costs will be a bargain
if everyone leaves court understanding that the state's
insurance problem is too much regulation, not too little.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Text of Michael Milken's Statement in Court
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   I was the founder and head of the High Yield and
Convertible Securities Department at Drexel. In pioneering
the creation of new instruments for the financing of
companies, most of which did not have access to the capital
markets because they did not have investment-grade ratings,
and in making markets in such securities, we operated under
unique, highly demanding, and intensely competitive
conditions. But I do not cite these conditions as excuses for
not conforming to all of the laws that governed our highly
regulated business. I am here today because in connection
with some transactions, I transgressed certain of the laws
and regulations that govern our industry. I was wrong in
doing so and knew that at the time and I am pleading guilty
to these offenses.
   One of the accounts we did business with was the Boesky
Organization, which also did business with many other firms.
Drexel did some financings for and trading with the Boesky
firm, but Drexel's business with the Boesky Organization
never approached one percent of the business of our
department. He traded in stocks; I traded primarily in bonds,
or their equivalent. But because he was a major factor in the
securities markets, he had the potential to become a more
significant account. We were not social friends, and had
little in common. His philosophy of business was different
from mine. The relationship started as an arms length and
correct one. Unfortunately, however, certain of our
transactions involved reciprocal accommodations, some of
which violated the law, including those that are referred to
in this allocution.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1984, our department had purchased some securities of
Fischbach, a company in which Victor Posner had an interest.
Drexel had provided financing to several other companies
which Mr. Posner had an interest in. In early 1984, Mr.
Posner publicly announced that he intended to acquire
Fischbach. Boesky was familiar with the Fischbach situation
and wanted to purchase Fischbach securities. I encouraged him
to do so. I do not remember exactly what I told him almost
six years ago, but I indicated to him that he would not lose
money.
   The Boesky Organization began buying Fischbach securities
and eventually bought over 10% of Fischbach including
securities that had been owned by Drexel. Over the next
months, he called me incessantly to complain that the price
of the stock was dropping, that Drexel was responsible for
his losses, that my comments to him were guarantees against
loss and that he expected us to make good. I assured him that
Drexel would make good on his losses. These assurances were
not recorded on the books of Drexel and I did not expect that
they would be reflected in any Schedule 13d's filed by the
Boesky Organization, and, in fact they were not. Thus, I
assisted in the failure to file an accurate 13d. This was
wrong and I accept responsibility for it. This is the basis
for Count II and is one of the overt acts in Count One.
   As for Count III and the second overt act of the
Conspiracy Count, in the fall of 1984, a client of Drexel,
Golden Nugget, wanted to sell a substantial amount of MCA
stock. I wanted the shares to hit the market in a way that
would not identify our client as the seller and adversely
affect the price that it might receive. So I turned to
Boesky, whose business it was to buy and sell large amounts
of stock and who I knew had an interest in entertainment
company stocks, including MCA. I told a Drexel employee to
ask him to buy the blocks of MCA shares as they became
available from Drexel's client. I did not tell the client how
I was disposing of the stock. Drexel crossed the blocks
between its client and the Boesky Organization, which
subsequently resold most of these shares into the market.
When Boesky complained that he had lost money on his initial
purchases of MCA, I promised that we would make up any losses
the Boesky Organization suffered on its purchases and sales
and thereafter it bought more MCA stock from Drexel acting on
behalf of our client. This promise was not recorded on
Drexel's books nor made public and it was wrong not to do so.
It was my intent that the block sales would enable our client
to receive a better price than it might have obtained if I
had not agreed that Drexel would make up the Boesky
Organization's losses on the MCA stock.
   In July 1985, the Boesky Organization asked Drexel to
purchase approximately 1,000,000 shares of stock in Helmerich
&amp; Payne. The Boesky Organization agreed that it would
repurchase this stock in the future and promised that it
would make up any losses Drexel incurred while holding this
stock. Although I was not involved in the purchase of these
securities, I later learned of this understanding. I approved
this understanding. I also gave instructions to sell the
stock back. The understanding that the Boesky Organization
would make up any losses was an oral one and the stock while
held by Drexel was not, therefore, charged to the Boesky
Organization's net capital as required by the securities laws
and rules. This is the basis for Count IV and the third overt
act.
   As I stated earlier, there were other accommodations of a
similar nature between the Boesky Organization and Drexel,
some of which were wrong. After Boesky complained about his
losses and insisted that we make them up, I asked a Drexel
employee in early 1985 to check the amount of the losses that
the Boesky Organization had incurred. In order to make up
these losses, I caused Drexel to execute certain bond trades
which resulted in profits to the Boesky Organization.
Thereafter, a Drexel employee tried to keep track of how the
Boesky Organization stood, in terms of profits and losses, on
these and certain other transactions, though so far as I know
this score-keeping was never exact.
   Counts V and VI and the remaining overt acts relate to
transactions between Drexel and David Solomon. Mr. Solomon
was a portfolio manager who specialized in high-yield
securities. His company, Solomon Asset Management Company,
Inc., was a large customer of Drexel -- as well as of other
firms. Among the institutions for which Mr. Solomon managed a
high-yield portfolio was the Finsbury Fund, an offshore fund
that had been underwritten by a Drexel affiliate. Drexel paid
an annual 1% commission to its salesmen for selling this fund
abroad, and charged this commission to the High Yield
Department because the Finsbury Fund traded in high-yield
securities. Sometime in 1985, I agreed with Solomon and
officials of Drexel that the High Yield Department would
recoup the commission for Drexel. To attempt to do so, we
charged Solomon a fraction of a point more on certain
purchases he made for his clients or a fraction of a point
less on certain sales he made for his clients to help recoup
the 1% commission paid to Drexel salesmen. All adjustments
were to be within the bid/ask range for the particular
security at the time of the transaction. To the best of my
information, this was done on a number of trades and the
adjustments totaled several hundred thousand dollars.
   These adjustments were not disclosed by Drexel or me to
the shareholders of Finsbury or to Solomon's other clients.
The confirmations for Solomon's purchase of securities were
mailed by Drexel and did not disclose the adjustments or that
they were made to reimburse Drexel for the selling expenses
of the Finsbury Fund. This failure to disclose was wrong and
is the basis of Count V.
   In December 1985, Mr. Solomon asked whether Drexel could
engage in securities transactions with him on which he could
generate short-term losses for his personal income tax
purposes. In light of the customer relationship between Mr.
Solomon and Drexel, I assisted him in purchasing from Drexel
certain securities, set forth in the Information, which
traded at a significant spread between the bid and the ask
price. Drexel thereafter repurchased these securities at a
substantially lower price, thus generating a loss for him and
a profit for Drexel. I either told him that we would provide
him with an investment opportunity or opportunities in the
following year to make up his loss to him, or that was
implicit in the conversation. In fact, in the following year,
we did provide him an investment opportunity which turned out
to be profitable and ultimately more than made up the losses
he suffered. I thus assisted Mr. Solomon in taking a tax loss
to which he was not entitled, and this is the basis of Count
Six and the fifth overt act.
   Because of the tremendous amount of publicity that has
surrounded this case, I wish to make clear that my plea is an
acceptance of personal responsibility for my own failings and
actions, and not a reflection on the underlying soundness and
integrity of the segment of the capital markets in which we
specialized and which provided capital that enabled hundreds
of companies to survive, expand and flourish. Our business
was in no way dependent on these practices. Nor did they
comprise a fundamental part of our business and I regret them
very much.
   This investigation and proceeding are now in their fourth
year. This long period has been extremely painful and
difficult for my family and friends as well as myself. I
realize that by my acts I have hurt those who are closest to
me. I am truly sorry. I thank the Court for permitting me to
add this apology and for its fairness in handling this
complex case.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Singleton to Cut
   Debt With Spinoff
   Of Houston Post
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   MEGA
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- William Dean Singleton said he will spin
off Houston Post Co. from his Consolidated Newspapers Inc. to
reduce a heavy burden of short-term debt.
   Unlike some media companies, such as Ingersoll
Publications Co., that are burdened with junk bond debt, Mr.
Singleton is restructuring about $95 million in short-term
bank debt into long-term debt with institutions. It was the
short-term debt that Mr. Singleton used in the 1980s to build
his closely held MediaNews Group, the newspaper company that
operates the Houston Post, Denver Post and dailies in
California, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Singleton, who is here attending the annual meeting of
American Newspaper Publishers Association, said the Houston
Post will be spun off to shareholders, which include Mr.
Singleton and his longtime partner Richard B. Scudder,
chairman of MediaNews Group.
   "This is not a sign of distress," Mr. Singleton said of
the restructuring of the Houston Post. Since Mr. Singleton
bought the Houston Post two years ago, circulation has grown
40,000 and operating profit grew 31% last year, he said. "The
move reflects the change that what was acceptable debt in the
1980s won't be acceptable in the 1990s."
   Without the Houston Post, Consolidated Newspapers, which
will consist of the Gloucester County Times in Woodbury,
N.J., and Today's Sunbeam in Salem, N.J., will be merged with
Garden State Newspapers Inc. Garden State, which owns 15
dailies and 28 weekly newspapers, is 40%-owned by Media
General Inc. of Richmond, Va., and 30%-owned by both Messrs.
Singleton and Scudder.
   Essentially, the spinoff and merger leave Mr. Singleton
with a more manageable debt load, he said. When Consolidated
spins off the Houston Post, a "comfortable amount of debt,"
or about $55 million, will go with the Post. That debt has
been refinanced with institutions as long-term debt, Mr.
Singleton said. The remainder of the debt, about $40 million,
will stay with Consolidated Newspapers, which becomes part of
Garden State.
   Media General approved of the merger of the two New Jersey
papers into Garden State. Bob Pendergast, a spokesman, said,
"If there is any additional debt involved, it will not be
significant."
   While Mr. Singleton's properties are largely considered
healthy, his acquisition of the Houston Post had faced some
problems lately. The Toronto Sun Publishing Co. sold its
interest in Houston Post to MediaNews Group in 1987. But in
the Toronto Sun's annual report, it said Houston-based
MediaNews was in "technical default" on a $50 million note
held by Toronto Sun.
   Mr. Singleton said in an interview the default was a
result of having to wait for a tax ruling from the Internal
Revenue Service.
   ---
   David D. Medina in Houston contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Man Accused of Bid
   To Snarl Operation
   Of IRS Is Indicted
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal grand jury in Fargo, N.D., has indicted a man
accused of originating a scheme to botch up the Internal
Revenue Service by filing false reports of income paid to
others.
   The indictment issued last week in Fargo charges that
Roger N. Elvick, 53 years old, of Moorhead, Minn., "concocted
and promoted" the scheme to impede the IRS and harass other
persons and conspired with other defendants to market the
scheme by selling written material and audio and video tapes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Wall Street Journal reported in a front-page article
last week that the IRS was pursuing 40 criminal
investigations into such subtly disruptive activities in
unidentified locales around the country.
   In the only previous indictment, six New Mexico tax
protesters were charged by a federal grand jury in
Albuquerque in February with filing 49 fraudulent Form 1099s
naming public officials and others as the recipients of
millions of dollars of nonwage income.
   A taxpayer's failure to declare income reported by third
parties to the IRS on 1099s may lead to an audit. One
apparent purpose of the falsified forms is to provoke
needless audits that could be costly and time-consuming for
the targets and for the IRS.
   Assistant U.S. Attorney Gary Annear in Fargo said the IRS
has uncovered over 2,600 phony 1099s filed by 193 people in
27 states purporting to have made payments totaling more than
$11.1 billion. Mr. Annear says his office believes it can
prove that Mr. Elvick originated the scheme.
   Mr. Elvick was in custody in Austin, Texas, on other
federal charges before the Fargo indictment, Mr. Annear adds.
   IRS investigators found videocassettes explaining the
scheme in the Farmington, N.M., office of two of the
defendants under arrest in New Mexico, but the investigators
haven't disclosed the source of those cassettes.
   In Washington, the IRS director of public affairs, Ellen
Murphy, said the indictment is "an important case." But while
the 40 investigations around the country have "a common
theme" involving fraudulent 1099s, she adds, the IRS so far
doesn't have information that the incidents are otherwise
related to each other.
   Besides Mr. Elvick, the Fargo grand jury indicted Ronald
W. Knutt, 47, of Rocklake, N.D.; Thomas D. Porter, 49, of
Cando, N.D., and Natalie C. Telemaque, 33, of Glendale, Ariz.
The 19 counts include conspiracy to defraud the U.S. and
filing false 1099s and tax returns with the IRS.
   The indictment alleges that the four had other purposes
besides harassing the IRS and "any person whom defendants
felt had wronged them." It charges that phony 1099s were one
link in a chain of arcane devices meant to culminate in
fraudulent tax refunds and other payments to the defendants
by the IRS.
   Three defendants even applied to the IRS for rewards for
tipping it off to alleged tax violators, the indictment says.
And, it continues, one possessed forged documents purporting
to be drafts payable through IRS Commissioner Fred T.
Goldberg Jr. to enable people to collect from the IRS.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canam Manac Inc.
   Two Agencies to Buy
   Rest of Noverco Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CAM.A CANDA T.NVC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Canam Manac Inc. and two Quebec government
agencies said they agreed in principle to pool their holdings
in Noverco Inc. and to offer 15.25 Canadian dollars
(US$13.14) a share, or about C$218 million, for the 27% of
Noverco they don't already own.
   Canam Manac currently holds about 44% of Noverco and the
two Quebec agencies together hold about 29% of the Montreal
energy concern. Noverco's main operating unit is Gaz
Metropolitain, Quebec's dominant natural gas distributor.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Trading was halted in Canam Manac and Noverco shares
Friday after a news report that an agreement was reached. On
the Toronto Stock Exchange Noverco last traded at C$12.625
and Canam Manac last traded at C$4.60. Canam Manac is a St.
Georges, Quebec, steel products concern.
   Canam Manac, Caisse de Depot et Placement, the Quebec
government's pension-fund agency, and Soquip, the province's
energy agency, said they will form a new holding company to
hold their Noverco shares and make the tender offer. They
said Canam Manac will own 50% of the holding company and the
agencies 25% each.
   The three concerns said the agreement is subject to
regulatory approval. They said that as part of the agreement
Caisse de Depot and Soquip hold an irrevocable option to
acquire Canam Manac's Noverco shares. The option can be
exercised on three month's notice between July 1, 1991, and
March 31, 1993. Canam Manac holds an irrevocable option to
sell its Noverco shares on the same terms.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   HAS THE IRS GROUNDED efforts to tax frequent-flier
benefits?
   Experts agree that free airline tickets earned with
credits for deductible business travel are personal income if
used for personal travel. But years after starting a
"project" to write rules for taxing the income, the IRS still
is stumped by these questions: what to tax, when to tax it,
how to value it, who (airline, company, or traveler) must
record and report it, and whether it is a nontaxable fringe
benefit for employees. Now the IRS has reclassified its
regulation-writing project as a "study."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That doesn't mean the chore is downgraded, a spokesman
says; it means the IRS needs to learn more about the rapidly
growing and changing programs. But, says Donald Alexander, a
Washington lawyer who represents the Air Transport
Association: "I'd be surprised if we heard from the IRS soon.
I think they are finding the game isn't worth the candle."
William Raby, editor of a newsletter on tax practice, says
many CPAs are concerned about the ethics of not reporting the
income on clients' returns.
   Raby says he would raise an ethical question about the
IRS's "failure . . . to provide even one word of guidance."
                                                                                                       

   JUDGES UP THE ANTE for taxpayers who gamble on frivolous
court tactics.
   The 1982 tax act let the Tax Court order taxpayers to pay
damages of up to $5,000 for filing frivolous or delaying
suits. But the growing number of damage awards didn't seem to
be deterrent enough, so the 1989 tax act authorized the court
to impose a penalty of up to $25,000 for making groundless
arguments starting this year. Judges are beginning to apply
that heavier hand.
   Robert J. Urwyler of Modesto, Calif., made frivolous tax
protests and failed twice to appear for trial; Special Judge
Galloway has ordered him to pay $7,000 on top of taxes and
other penalties. Judge Parr ordered Marjorie E. Brock,
Redding, Calif., to pay civil fraud penalties and $5,000 for
"obnoxious behavior" in 1989 and $10,000 for this year --
including failing to appear for trial.
                                                                                                       

   SELF-EMPLOYERS may trim Social Security taxes a bit, with
some figuring.
   Half of employees' Social Security tax is paid by
employers. But the self-employed nominally pay the full tax
-- in 1990, 15.3% of the first $51,300 of self-employment
earnings. Still, new two-step rules will let them lower the
rate, says Peter Elinsky of Peat Marwick, CPAs. First, before
figuring the self-employment Social Security tax, they may
deduct from earnings a sum equal to the earnings times half
the tax rate; the full rate then is levied on the balance.
Thus, Elinsky says, the maximum tax of $7,848.90 applies to
earnings of $55,550 or more; for lower earnings, the tax is
less.
   Step No. 2 comes when a self-employer files an income-tax
return: On it, he may deduct half of the Social Security tax
actually paid. Someone in the 28% income-tax bracket thus
pays an effective Social Security rate of 12.15%, not 15.3%,
on earnings of $55,550 or less, Elinsky says. Employees pay
Social Security tax at a 7.65% rate.
   Reducing self-employment-tax payments may result in lower
Social Security benefits later, Elinsky adds.
                                                                                                       

   REAL-ESTATE transaction reporting would be widened broadly
in 1991 by proposed IRS rules to cover land and all
residential, industrial, and commercial buildings. The IRS
plans a hearing Sept. 24. Reporting now is required for
one-to-four-family residential properties.
                                                                                                       

   PERSONAL-SERVICE concerns owned at least 95% by present
and past employees pay a flat 34% tax, not the regular
graduated corporate rates on income up to $75,000. The IRS
says it is screening such companies' returns, because many
have computed their taxes at the lower graduated rates.
                                                                                                       

   TAXPAYERS' RIGHTS should be expanded, says Sen. Armstrong
(R., Colo.). He has entered five bills to broaden rights to
recover costs from the IRS and to sue it, to equalize the
interest rates on overdue taxes and refunds, and to protect
confidential communications with tax advisers.
                                                                                                       

   WORKING COUPLES must watch for underwithholding, tax
advisers say.
   So it's time to review Form W-4s, adds the California
Society of Enrolled Agents, who are licensed advisers. IRS
withholding tables for couples filing jointly assume only one
spouse works, and the society describes this potential
problem: John and Jo earn $2,000 a month each and don't
itemize deductions. On W-4s, they list themselves as married
but claim no dependents, to maximize withholding; their
employers withhold $261 a month each, or a total of $522.
   The couple also have $2,000 of interest income. Doing
their 1990 return, they find they owe $844 more in tax. Yet
if Jo as the sole breadwinner earned the same total sum,
$4,000 a month, $695 would be withheld from her monthly
paycheck; and the couple would get a $1,232 refund. The
lesson for working couples: Be sure to use the nine-step
worksheet on the back of the W-4 to figure the right
withholding, the society says.
   The effect of the withholding tables varies, but falls on
all working couples to some extent, the society says.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Taxpayers Associations International -- joining
groups striving to restrain taxes in 15 nations -- plans its
first meeting in July, aboard the Cinderella sailing from
Stockholm to Helsinki. . . . Missouri Sens. Danforth and Bond
propose to amend the Constitution to bar federal judges from
imposing state taxes. They would overturn the Supreme Court's
ruling in the Kansas City, Mo., school-desegregation case.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Commodore Offers
   New Multimedia
   Amiga Computer
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CBU
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Commodore International Ltd. introduced an
Amiga personal computer that gives it a solid entry in the
fast-growing market for machines using multimedia technology.
   "Multimedia" has become the latest buzzword in the
personal-computer industry because improvements in handling
sound, pictures and video seem to open the way for new uses
for computers at a time when growth in personal-computer
demand is slowing. Proponents argue that multimedia systems
will soon be used widely by corporate trainers, schools and
anyone making a formal presentation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Commodore, based in West Chester, Pa., has been struggling
for the past year and is staking its future on the multimedia
computer market. It hopes to ride the demand for multimedia
systems and get into corporate accounts, much the way Apple
Computer Inc. used its Macintosh's aptitude for desktop
publishing to solidify its position in corporate America.
   It won't be easy. Commodore still needs to persuade more
big dealers to carry the Amiga line. But dealers, facing the
welter of products available, are trying to reduce the number
of companies whose products they carry. Commodore faces a
similar hurdle with corporate customers trying to simplify
their computer systems; Amiga software won't run on Macintosh
or IBM-compatible machines.
   In general, Commodore needs to re-establish its
credibility. It has had losses in recent quarters and
personal computer sales are down, even in West Germany, its
strongest market. Reflecting these problems, Commodore's
stock has tumbled 60% in the past year. In New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday, Commodore shares closed
at $7.25, down 25 cents.
   The machine announced at a news conference here yesterday
stacks up nicely against the competition. The Amiga 3000 uses
Motorola Corp.'s powerful 68030 central processor as well as
some customized chips that speed the handling of graphics and
sound. The 3000 also comes with a so-called authoring system
that makes it rather easy to pull together a multimedia
presentation.
   "This machine is state-of-the-art," said Nick Arnett, a
consultant with Multimedia Computing Corp., Santa Clara,
Calif.
   With suggested retail prices of $3,299 to $4,499 --
depending on the speed of the processor and the size of the
hard disk -- the Amiga 3000 line also costs thousands of
dollars less than some competing systems.
   Harry Copperman, who has been running Commodore's U.S.
operations for the past year, said the company is making
progress in its target markets: education, government and
corporations, mainly for use by trainers. He said existing
models of the Amiga line now account for more than 50% of
sales.
   "This {turnaround} is a journey, not an event," he
cautioned. But he added: "Overall, we've been very pleased."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Orbital Sciences Launches
   Initial Public Offer at $14
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   ORBI
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   FAIRFAX, Va. -- After launching its experimental Pegasus
rocket, Orbital Sciences Corp. finally launched its initial
public offering.
   The company sold about 2.4 million shares at $14 each
Monday -- $1 a share more than the company had planned last
month when it abruptly canceled the offering. On the day of
the proposed offering, a Wall Street Journal article
appeared, describing the steep risks involved in the Pegasus
project and apparently spooking the company and investors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But since that time, things have gone well for Orbital
Sciences. In early April, it successfully launched Pegasus,
which is carried on the wing of a B-52 bomber and is dropped
over the ocean before it ignites. Pegasus is designed to
carry small satellites into space -- an emerging market that
has largely been ignored by the big aerospace companies as
too risky or too small.
   Cash-strapped Orbital Sciences sold about 1,250,000 shares
itself, raising about $17.5 million, before underwriting
fees. Outside investors sold about 1,150,000 shares. Orbital
Sciences didn't return calls seeking comment. Its
underwriter, Alex. Brown &amp; Sons, confirmed that the shares
had been sold.
   Yesterday, in its first day of trading, the rocket
company's shares opened at $14.50 in over-the-counter trading
and closed at $14. About 1.2 million shares were traded.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FREST EUROP C.TAC AFRIC WPPGY HMC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AIRLINES (AIR)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   INSIDER TRADING IN JAPAN
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tokyo's Metropolitan Police Office is investigating the
former president of a financial firm for alleged insider
stock trading, Japanese press reports said, in what would be
the first case handled under stronger regulations for the
offense.
   The case surfaced last June, when the stock of Nisshin
Kisen Kaisha surged in heavy trading on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange in the days ahead of the company's official
announcement it would allocate new shares to third parties.
   The financial firm's former president, who wasn't
identified in the press reports, is believed to have obtained
information about the allocation before the announcement and
to have purchased 7,000 shares of Nisshin Kisen using the
name and bank account of an acquaintance, the reports said.
His company was one that received shares under the plan.
   If the case were filed with the Tokyo prosecutor's office,
it would be the first to be prosecuted under the stiffened
provisions of the Securities and Exchange Law enacted in
January 1989. The new regulations make insider trading a
criminal rather than a civil offense.
                                                                                                       

   A CHANGE FOR TAIWAN
                                                                                                       

   Taiwan has approved direct investment in the Soviet Union
and Albania, the government Board of Foreign Trade reported.
The cabinet decided to allow Taiwan citizens to set up
factories and offices in both communist nations and to open
banking and transportation links, said Lin Jui-long, a deputy
section chief at the board. Last month, the Nationalist
government lifted a ban on direct trade with the Soviet Union
and Albania in response to calls from local businessmen.
                                                                                                       

   HARD TIMES IN SWEDEN
                                                                                                       

   Swedish business insolvencies in the first three months of
1990 rose a record 39%, to 2,091 from 1,500 in the
corresponding period a year earlier, Statistics Sweden said.
The national statistics agency said insolvencies rose 78% in
the engineering sector and 89% in the real-estate-management
sector. But the total number of insolvency-related job losses
fell to 2,873 from 2,970 in the same period of 1989, as small
companies were hardest hit, the agency said.
                                                                                                       

   PRIVATIZING THAILAND'S AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   A plan to partially privatize state-owned Thai Airways
International was approved by the Thai cabinet. The Ministry
of Transport and Communication will study three approaches,
according to a government spokesman. One entails listing
shares on the Securities Exchange of Thailand. A second
involves divestiture of some airline assets to private
investors through jointventure companies in which Thai
International would retain a 49% share. The third involves
raising funds through long-term overseas borrowings.
                                                                                                       

   NEEDY SOUTH AFRICAN HOSPITAL
                                                                                                       

   South Africa's Groote Schuur Hospital, which pioneered
heart transplants, threw away a good human heart last week
because it lacked money and equipment to do anything with it,
said one of its surgeons, John Odell. "We could have used it.
We had a recipient in mind . . . but we didn't have the
equipment," Dr. Odell said. He said the hospital's heart unit
needs a new $80,000 heart-lung machine, monitors and other
equipment.
                                                                                                       

   OGILVY'S LONDON MOVE
                                                                                                       

   London's sprawling Docklands project has lured advertising
giant Ogilvy &amp; Mather, an agency in the WPP Group, as a
tenant in a much-needed boost. Ogilvy said it plans to move
its offices, with a staff of about 450, from Central London
to the Docklands' Canary Wharf office complex in early 1992.
Docklands, begun in the 1980s amid expectations that London
would become the main business center for all Europe, has
been bedeviled by Britain's current economic problems and
other factors, including what many view as a hard-to-get-to
location.
                                                                                                       

   U.S.-MADE HONDAS FOR EUROPEANS
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Honda Motor Co. will produce Accord station wagons
in the U.S. for export to West Germany and other European
Community nations, a Honda spokesman said. The company plans
to begin production this fall at its assembly plant in
Marysville, Ohio.
   Full-scale shipment of the model to West Germany is
expected to start in 1991. Sample shipments will begin in
1990. The company expects to export 3,000 to 4,000 of the
station wagons to Europe annually but didn't specify how many
units will be allocated for West Germany.
   Honda is studying markets in the 12 EC nations, with a
focus on those with relatively moderate barriers to car
imports, the spokesman said. Italy and France are pushing for
EC-wide quotas to restrict sales of Japanese cars regardless
of where the vehicles are built.
   Honda's U.S. production is expected to reach 510,000 units
in calendar 1991, up from the 425,000 units forecast for
1990, the spokesman said.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   By a margin of more than 3-1, residents of East Germany's
Karl Marx-Stadt voted to restore the city's pre-1953 name,
Chemnitz, the East German news agency ADN said. . . . New
Zealand's one- and two-cent coins won't be legal tender after
April 30 and are being melted for scrap metal. The small
copper coins "have lost their purchasing power over the
years," said a Reserve Bank official. One New Zealand cent is
worth a little more than half a U.S. cent.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   3Com Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   COMS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   3COM Corp. (Santa Clara, Calif.) -- Eric Benhamou, 34
years old, was named president and chief operating officer of
this computer networking systems company. Both positions had
been vacant since mid-1988. Mr. Benhamou previously was an
executive vice president at 3Com.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Union Camp Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   UCC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   UNION CAMP Corp. (Wayne, N.J.) -- Robert D. Kennedy,
chairman, president and chief executive officer of Union
Carbide Corp., was elected a director of this maker of paper,
packaging and wood-based chemicals; the board remains at 13
members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Private-Sector Labor Costs Accelerated
   During First Quarter, Rising by 1.6%
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Private industry's labor costs rose 1.6% in
the first quarter, the government said, accelerating from a
1.1% rise in the fourth period and a 1.2% increase in 1989's
first quarter.
   The increases were propelled by benefit increases,
including a rise in the Social Security taxes paid by
employers, the Labor Department said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's not an explosion but it's steady pressure," said
Audrey Freedman, a labor economist at the Conference Board, a
business research organization. Many economists see the
labor-cost figure as an important indicator of inflation,
because salaries and benefits are a large share of business
costs and ultimately must be reflected in prices.
   In the 12 months ended in March, wages, salaries and
benefits for private sector employees increased 5.2%, the
biggest rise since they climbed 5.4% in the 12 months ended
June 1984. That figure was 4.8% for all 1989 and 4.6% in the
12 months ended in March of that year.
   Meanwhile, in a separate report, the Labor Department said
major collective-bargaining agreements settled in the first
quarter provided wage increases averaging 3.8% in the first
year and 3.3% a year over the life of the pacts.
   Those figures were well above the ones in previous
contracts negotiated by the same parties. The previous
contracts, generally negotiated two or three years ago, paid
2.3% in the first year and 2.2% a year for the full term of
the contracts. The figures don't include benefits. Agreements
in the latest report covered 318,000 workers.
   Increases in benefits made up most of the 5.2% increase in
total compensation for workers over the 12 months ended in
March. Benefit costs to employers rose 7.2% in that period,
up from a 5.4% rise in the year-earlier period. Wages and
salaries rose only 4.2%, the same increase registered for the
12 months ended March 1989.
   White collar workers received wage and salary increases of
4.6% during the 12-month period, faring better than blue
collar workers, who posted gains of 3.7%. Labor costs
continued to increase more rapidly in services than in
goods-producing industries, though the difference was small
-- 4.2% versus 4%.
   Including employees of state and local governments, but
not federal employees, the department's employment cost index
rose 1.7% in the first quarter, compared with a 1.2% rise in
the first quarter of 1989. The index rose 1% in last year's
fourth quarter.
   In the 12 months ended in March, this index was up 5.5%.
It rose 5% for the full year 1989, and 4.8% in the 12 months
ended in March 1989.
   Unlike most of the government's economic statistics, none
of these figures are adjusted for seasonal variations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Allied-Signal Venture
   With GE to Produce
   Engines for Dassault
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ALD GE
</CO>
<LP>
   MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J. -- Allied-Signal Inc. said its
aircraft-engine joint venture with General Electric Co. will
produce engines for a new business jet built by Dassault, the
French airplane maker.
   Deliveries of engines, spare parts and service for the
plane are expected to generate $1 billion in revenue for the
50-50 joint venture over the life of the program, an
Allied-Signal spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Allied-Signal said the turbofan engine that will power the
plane is under development by the partnership, CFE Co.,
formed by Allied-Signal's Garrett Engine division and GE's
Aircraft Engines division.
   A Dassault spokesman said deliveries of the new
twin-engine eight-passenger plane, the Falcon 2000, will
begin in 1994. Dassault expects to sell "several hundred" of
the aircraft over the following 15 to 20 years.
   Allied-Signal also makes automotive and other aerospace
products and engineered materials. GE, Fairfield, Conn., has
interests in aerospace, defense and industrial products,
broadcasting and financial services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Zenith Electronics Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ZE WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ZENITH ELECTRONICS Corp. (Glenview, Ill.) -- David H.
Cohen, vice president, research, and graduate school dean at
Northwestern University; Charles Marshall, retired vice
chairman of American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.; Andrew
McNally IV, president and chief executive officer of Rand
McNally & Co.; and Peter S. Willmott, president and chief
executive of Willmott Services Inc. were named directors of
this consumer electronics and components concern, filling
three vacancies and expanding board membership to 10.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Precious Metals Futures Prices Drop as Silver
   Dips Below Critical $5 Level Before Recovering
   ----
   By John Valentine
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Precious metals futures prices declined, with
silver temporarily dropping below the critical $5-an-ounce
level before recovering.
   May delivery silver settled at $5 an ounce, down 10 cents,
after trading as low as $4.99. June delivery gold ended with
a loss of $3.10 an ounce at $379.00. July platinum gave up
almost all of Monday's gains as it slipped $6.50 an ounce to
$487.80.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Peter Cardillo, trading adviser for Josephthal &amp; Co., New
York, said one reason for the weakness in silver was traders
switching out of the May contract into more deferred months.
The first day for the issuance of notices to deliver silver
against May contracts is next Monday. The last trading day
for May silver is May 29.
   "The continued buildup of silver supplies in Commodity
Exchange warehouses and elsewhere is creating a great weight
on the market," Mr. Cardillo said.
   As of the close of trading Monday, silver inventories in
Comex warehouses amounted to a record 255.4 million troy
ounces, an increase of 3.4 million ounces from Friday.
   Mr. Cardillo noted that precious metals traders also
appeared to be less concerned about inflation than people in
other commodity markets.
   "A good example is the way precious metals traders ignored
the unexpectedly large rise in durable goods orders in
March," he said. "They seem to feel that it's a temporary
blip that will correct itself later on."
   Durable goods orders for March rose 6.7% in contrast to a
rise of 2.3% in February and an expected increase of only
2.1%.
   Silver these days is selling about 55 cents to 60 cents
below production costs, Mr. Cardillo said. "Eventually, this
is going to cause some of the smaller and less strongly
financed producers to close down. In time, this will create a
support for prices. However, over the near term, I don't see
prices declining much more," he said.
   The dollar wasn't much of a factor either, according to
another analyst who noted, "It was up against the yen, but
down against the German mark and Swiss franc and even with
sterling."
   Another analyst, Gregory Klochkoff, vice president of Bank
of Boston in Providence, R.I., said there was some demand for
gold early in the session, but "traders later in the day sold
out when they became disappointed with the market's
lackluster performance."
   However, he noted, light Middle Eastern demand developed
for gold bullion in the latter part of the day. These
purchases created some underlying support in the futures
market and helped prices level off, he said.
   Ian MacDonald, vice president at Credit Suisse in New
York, noted that "the market lacked news and like most
markets these days, it's news-driven."
   Mr. MacDonald also noted that producers tend to sell
precious metals more actively in the early part of the year
and that these sales tend to taper off later. "Jewelry demand
for precious metals has slowed and the observance of
religious holidays in the Middle East also has contributed to
a decline in demand," he said.
   The modest buying that appeared in futures early in the
day apparently was prompted by the belief that the market may
have been oversold and might respond to some demand.
"However, the market failed to rally, producing the later
sell-off," he said.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS and SOYBEANS: Prices of corn, soybean and wheat
futures contracts dropped amid profit-taking and forecasts
for good planting weather. Corn prices eased as some traders
began cashing in on a modest rally that lasted several weeks.
"It was just a technical correction from the recent price
gains," said Victor Lespinasse, a floor broker with Dean
Witter Reynolds, Chicago. Soybean prices, which rose for the
past few weeks, also dropped. According to published reports
in Brazil, the soybean harvest there is nearing the halfway
point. Last year at this time the Brazilian harvest was 58%
complete. The slow harvest has been widely reported and had
little impact on prices yesterday. Brazil and the U.S. are
the two largest soybean exporting nations. In the U.S., soil
moisture appears adequate as the planting season begins in
the Midwest in earnest. Corn farmers have planted about 6% of
their fields so far. The biggest problem is the spring wheat
growing region of the Northern Plains, where the weather has
been extremely dry. Some forecasters expect showers over much
of the area later this week, which would increase the chances
of normal germination.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Petroleum futures were mixed. June crude oil
settled slightly lower after an early run-up failed to reach
certain technical targets. West Texas Intermediate for June
delivery rose to $19.47 a barrel but then sold off sharply.
It settled at $19, down seven cents for the day. "The market
is finding a niche for the spot-month crude at around $19,"
said one trader, "until it's clear whether OPEC will cut
crude supplies at the meeting next week." Contributing to the
sell-off, some other traders suggested, was a worry that the
latest weekly report by the American Petroleum Institute
would show another increase in crude oil inventories.
Released after trading had closed, the API report did show
that crude oil inventories increased 1.2 million barrels last
week. Still, one trader called it a "non-event" so far as
crude futures prices are concerned. Also, as expected, the
closely watched API report showed drawdowns in inventories of
gasoline and distillate fuels, including heating oil.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices rebounded from the weakness of the
previous two sessions. The May contract rose 3.40 cents a
pound to $1.1550. Demand for contracts was helped by a report
that durable goods purchases in March had risen 6.7%, up from
a 2.3% increase in February and compared with expectations of
only about a 2.1% gain, one analyst said. Also, the analyst
noted, production problems being experienced by Codelco, the
Chilean state-owned copper mining company, was a
price-supporting factor. Chile is the world's largest copper
producer. At one mine, the motor of a mill concentrator
hasn't been working at full capacity and "rock bursts," or
collapses, in some mines have been a continuing problem, the
analyst said. Codelco late yesterday lowered its estimate for
1990 production to 1.2 million to 1,250,000 tons of refined
copper from its previous estimate of 1,290,000 tons,
according to the analyst. He said output would most likely be
closer to 1.2 million tons. Dealer premiums for cash market
copper in the U.S. and abroad remain strong, according to the
analyst, who also said that computer-based commodity funds,
which have been sellers in futures markets recently, became
buyers yesterday and helped boost prices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   Novell Executives
   Sold Stock in Month
   Before Lotus Offer
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   NOVL LOTS WMT MCAWA
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Four executives at Novell Inc. sold more than
$8 million of company stock in the month before the price
plummeted on news of a proposed merger with Lotus Development
Corp., filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
show.
   Raymond J. Noorda, chairman, sold $6.6 million of the
software maker's shares on March 19 and March 20, according
to the filings. The 153,000 shares, which were sold at an
average price of $43.01 a share, represented 4% of his
holdings in the Provo, Utah, company, the filings show.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Three other Novell insiders sold an additional 38,995
shares between March 13 and March 30, according to the
filings.
   Novell announced plans to merge with Lotus on April 5. The
stock fell $4.125 in one day, to $38.75. It continues to
hover near that level, closing yesterday at $37.75, down 50
cents, in over-the-counter trading.
   Mr. Noorda was unavailable for comment. But David
Bradford, the company's general counsel, said that when the
executives sold the shares, the merger "wasn't even a glimmer
in anyone's eye." Mr. Bradford, who sold 6,250 shares, 87% of
his Novell holdings, in March, added: "We we're hoping the
stock would go up," on the news.
   In general, Wall Street analysts did view the merger
positively, arguing that if the two companies successfully
merge, it could prove a formidable challenge to the industry
dominance of Microsoft Corp. But investors -- worried that
the merger may prove difficult, and disappointed that Novell
holders don't get a premium under its proposed terms --
showed their displeasure.
   According to Peter Troop, head of investor relations at
the company, the announcement triggered a drop because Wall
Street is "choosing to see it (the merger) as a sale." Under
a letter of intent signed by the companies, Lotus will issue
1,19131 Lotus common shares for each Novell common share.
Negotiations for the merger continue, he said, although a
shareholders' lawsuit has been filed to block it, a suit the
company contends is "without merit."
   The two other Novell executives who sold shares, one of
whom has since left the company, were unavailable for
comment. Kanwal Rekhi, executive vice president of product
development, sold 1,745 shares, retaining 135,648 shares,
according to SEC filings. Ronald Eliason, formerly executive
vice president and treasurer, sold all his holdings, 31,000
shares, for about $1.4 million. Their shares fetched prices
ranging from $41.75 to $44.13 a share.
   ---
   DROP IN THE BUCKET: Sam Walton, chairman of Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. and one of the world's richest individuals, sold
$1.9 million of the company's stock on March 19, SEC filings
show.
   But while the 40,920 shares he sold would be a lot for
most people, Mr. Walton retains over 218 million shares in
the company.
   The shares sold for $46.81 a share, compared with the
company's closing level yesterday of $48.25, down 37.5 cents
in New York Stock Exchange Composite trading.
   Also selling Wal-Mart shares in March were the company's
chief operating officer and a director, each selling small
portions of their Wal-Mart stakes, SEC filings show. In a
transaction related to an earlier exercise of options, Donald
G. Soderquist, the chief operating officer, sold 25,000
shares for $1.2 million, or 5% of his holdings. Jack C.
Shewmaker sold 15,000 shares for $68,000, representing 2% of
his stake. Their shares fetched prices ranging from $44.50 to
$47.50, according to the SEC filings.
   Mr. Soderquist declined to comment, while Mr. Walton and
Mr. Shewmaker weren't available. The company declined to
comment or to confirm the SEC data.
   ---
   BUSY SIGNAL: Two brothers of McCaw Cellular Communications
Inc. Chairman Craig McCaw sold almost $20 million of the
company's stock, a month after its acquisition of LIN
Broadcasting, according to SEC filings. As shown on the
accompanying Insider Trading Spotlight, the two sold 625,367
shares in the Kirkland, Wash., cellular-phone-service company
on April 6.
   Since then, the price of McCaw Cellular's stock has fallen
18% in over-the-counter trading. The insiders sold at $31.25
a share, the filings show. The stock closed yesterday at
$25.75, down 75 cents.
   The brothers -- John E. McCaw Jr., executive vice
president of acquisitions, and Bruce McCaw, a director --
declined to comment.
   But a company spokesman noted that McCaw took on a great
deal of debt as part of the LIN Broadcasting acquisition,
which was completed March 5. The decline in the price of the
stock has been part of "the market's disenchantment with
leveraged companies," he said. He added that the sales were
part of a prearranged private sale of a stake in McCaw to the
BT USA subsidiary of British Telecommunications PLC.
   John McCaw sold 469,025 shares, retaining a stake of 4,500
Class A common shares and 890,016 Class B common shares, SEC
filings show. Bruce McCaw sold 156,342 Class A shares,
virtually all his Class A holdings, but retains almost 12
million Class B common shares, according to the filings.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   MCCAW CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS Inc. said John E. McCaw Jr.,
executive vice president of acquisitions, has 12,238,249
shares of the company's Class B common stock. His Class B
holding was misstated in yesterday's edition because of an
error by Invest/Net, a company that tracks filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The incorrect figure was
confirmed by a McCaw spokesman prior to publication, and Mr.
McCaw had declined to comment.
   (WSJ April 26, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Standard Federal Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SFB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   STANDARD FEDERAL BANK (Troy, Mich.) -- Beverly Beltaire,
president and chief executive officer of PR Associates, and
David P. Williams, president and chief operating officer of
Budd Co., were elected directors of this bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MGM Grand Air Says
   It Will Replace 727s
   With Larger DC-8s
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   MGG
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- MGM Grand Air, the luxury airline unit of
MGM Grand Inc., said it plans to add three reconfigured DC8
Super 62 aircraft to its main New York-Los Angeles route in
August, replacing the 727-100s currently in use.
   The new aircraft will double MGM Grand's capacity on its
New York-Los Angeles route, Charles L. Demoney, the airline's
president and chief executive officer, said. Two of the
727-100s will be used for charter flights, and a third may be
put up for sale, he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The luxury airline, which began service in September 1987,
said the DC-8s will be reconfigured from 190 seats to 81
seats each. The company will spend $55.5 million to buy and
refurbish the planes; that equals about $162,500 a seat. The
new planes' cargo capacity may enable the airline to boost
revenue 4% to 5% from cargo business, Mr. Demoney said.
   MGM Grand began turning a profit after five quarters of
operation, he said; it reported revenue of $30.2 million for
1989, a 36% increase from the prior year. The airline runs at
a load factor of about 75%, but Mr. Demoney said it may show
load factors in the high 50% range in the first months of the
larger planes' operation.
   The airline offers luxury transcontinental service at a
fare of $1,017 one way, roughly equal to other airlines'
first-class rate. Although the airline hopes to launch
international service to London, Tokyo and Paris, no such
move is likely anytime soon, the company said.
   MGM Grand, which is controlled by investor Kirk
Kerkorian's Tracinda Corp., also operates a Las Vegas casino
and plans to build another Las Vegas entertainment project.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Federal Pioneer Says
   4 Schneider Nominees
   Are Named Directors
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS T.FPE F.SCN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Federal Pioneer Ltd. said four nominees of
Groupe Schneider S.A. of France were appointed to Federal's
eight-member board following Schneider's acquisition of a
controlling stake in the Canadian electrical equipment maker.
   Schneider is offering 15 Canadian dollars (US$12.92) a
share for all the common shares of Federal Pioneer. Last week
it completed the purchase of a 63% stake in Federal Pioneer
from Enfield Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The French concern hasn't acquired the remainder of those
shares as yet, Federal Pioneer said. The C$300 million bid is
set to expire Monday.
   The Schneider nominees are Lorenzo Folio, Michel Robin,
Denis Lagrange and E. Jacques Courtois. They succeed Enfield
representatives Willard L'Heureux, Robert Harding and James
Meekison. There was one vacancy on the board.
   Federal also said Mr. Folio was named chairman, succeeding
Mr. L'Heureux, who resigned.
   Enfield, an industrial holding concern in which the
Bronfman family's merchant bank, Hees International Bancorp
Inc., holds a 40% stake, tendered its 53.3% fully diluted
stake in Federal Pioneer to the offer.
   Schneider has extensive holdings in the electrical
equipment industry. It plans to integrate Federal Pioneer
with its MerlinGerin S.A. subsidiary.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Roche Holding AG:
   Swiss Firm's Profit for 1989
   Rose 33% to $570.4 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.ROC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Roche Holding AG, a large Swiss chemical and
pharmaceutical concern, said its 1989 consolidated profit
surged 33% to 852 million Swiss francs ($570.4 million) from
642 million francs in 1988, on a previously reported 21% jump
in sales to 9.81 billion francs from 8.14 billion francs.
   Roche cited robust sales growth, a favorable economic
environment, the relative weakness of the Swiss franc and
"liquid fund investments."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it will propose a dividend of 38 francs a
share on 1989's results, or a total of 157 million francs,
compared with 118 million francs paid out on 1988's results.
The proposed payout can't be compared directly with that for
1988 because of a 1989 capital restructuring, Roche said.
   Cash flow, a barometer of a Swiss company's performance,
jumped 23% in 1989 to 1.45 billion francs, or 15% of sales.
Research and development spending totaled 1.42 billion
francs, or about 14% of sales. Pharmaceuticals accounted for
about 45% of 1989 sales; vitamins and fine chemicals, 25%;
diagnostics, 14%; fragrances and flavors, 11%; and plant
protection, 5%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   EG&amp;G Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   EGG WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   EG&amp;G Inc. (Wellesley, Mass.) -- This maker of scientific
instruments and parts added two directors, expanding its
board to 13 members: Gail Deegan, senior vice president and
chief adminstrative officer of Eastern Enterprises, an energy
concern; and Greta E. Marshall, principal and founder of
Marshall Plan, an investment management and counseling firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP RD SC FNM LATAM IBM SLM MO FRE MRN SCE
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among offerings and pricings in U.S.
and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and syndicate
manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Morrison Knudsen Corp. -- $500 million redemption amount
of zero-coupon convertible notes, also known as liquid yield
option notes, due May 1, 2005, were priced at $343.61 per
$1,000 note and will yield at maturity 7.25%. The notes are
zero-coupon securities and won't pay interest periodically.
The size of the offering was increased from $375 million
redemption amount. The notes, noncallable for two years, are
convertible into Morrison Knudsen common stock at $55.02 a
share, representing a 12% conversion premium over Monday's
closing price. The issue also contains a so-called poison put
that allows holders to put their notes back to the company if
there has been a change of control in management. Rated Baa-3
by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and triple-B by Standard &amp;
Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold through Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets.
   Philip Morris Cos. -- $300 million of 9 3/4% notes, due
May 1, 1997, was priced at 99.75 to yield 9.80%. The
noncallable notes were priced at a spread of 0.85 percentage
point above the Treasury's seven-year note. Rated single-A-3
by Moody's and single-A by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold
through underwriters led by First Boston Corp.
   Southern California Edison Co. -- $100 million of first
and refunding mortgage bonds, due May 1, 1992, was won in
competitive bidding by Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. and will
be reoffered at par to yield 9.125%. The noncallable notes
were priced at a spread of 0.265 percentage point above the
Treasury's two-year note. Shearson won the issue with a bid
that resulted in a net interest cost to the company of
9.229%. The issue is rated double-A-2 by Moody's and double-A
by S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

   Transmission Agency of Northern California -- $283 million
of California-Oregon Transmission project revenue bonds, 1990
Series A, due May 1, 1994-2001, 2010, 2013 and 2024, with
capital-appreciation bonds due 2002-2005, were priced by a
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. group. The bonds are priced to
yield from 6.40% in 1994 to 7.37% in 2024. Current interest
serial bonds are priced to yield from 6.40% in 1994 to 7.05%
in 2001. There are $36.2 million of 7% term bonds priced at
96.87 to yield 7.30% in 2010. There are $28.4 million of 7%
term bonds priced at 97 to yield 7.27% in 2013. There are
$170.6 million of 7% term bonds priced at 95.38 to yield
7.37% in 2024. Capital-appreciation bonds are priced to yield
to maturity from 7.10% in 2002 to 7.25% in 2005. The bonds
are insured and rated triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
   Ohio Water Development Authority -- $81.5 million of
revenue bonds, Pure Water 1990 Series I, due June 1 and Dec.
1, 1991-2004, and Dec. 1, 2009 and 2016, were priced by a
Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. group. The bonds are priced
to yield from 6.10% in 1991 to 7.35% in 2009 and 2016.
Current interest serial bonds are priced at par to yield from
6.10% in 1991 to 7.30% in 2003 and 2004. There are $20.1
million of 7% term bonds priced at 96.39 to yield 7.35% in
2009. There are $22.7 million of 6% term bonds priced at
84.32 to yield 7.35% in 2016. The bonds are insured and rated
triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
   Puerto Rico Public Buildings Authority -- $59.8 million of
revenue refunding bonds, Series I, due July 1, 1990-2000,
with capital-appreciation bonds due 2001-2004, were priced by
a First Boston Corp. group. The bonds are priced to yield
from 5.90% in 1990 to 7.15% for capital-appreciation bonds
due in 2004. Current interest serial bonds are priced to
yield from 5.90% in 1990 to 6.90% in 2000.
Capital-appreciation bonds are priced to yield to maturity
from 7.10% in 2001 to 7.15% in 2004. There are $6.5 million
of bonds maturing in each year. The bonds due in 1990-1994
are backed by a letter of credit from Industrial Bank of
Japan and rated triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P. Bonds due in
1995-2004 are insured and also rated triple-A.
                                                                                                       

                          MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million
issue of real estate mortgage investment conduit securities
is being offered in six classes by Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc. The offering, Series 1990-55, is backed by
Fannie Mae 10% securities with an underlying weighted average
coupon rate of 10.65% and weighted average remaining term to
maturity of 29.6 years. For classes with details available,
the securities yield as much as 10.25%, which represents a
spread of 1.30 percentage points over the 10-year Treasury
for security due in 2014 with an average life of 10.99 years.
The issue uses a "plain vanilla" structure in which principal
payments are passed sequentially to the six classes. Also
$250 million of Remic mortgage securities is being offered in
10 classes by Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. The offering,
Series 1990-54, is backed by 15-year Fannie Mae 9 1/2%
securities with a weighted average remaining term to maturity
of 14.3 years. Full details on yields weren't immediately
available.
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $300 million of Remic
securities is being offered by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. The
issue, Freddie Mac's Series 168, is backed by Freddie Mac 9%
securities. Pricing information wasn't immediately available.
                                                                                                       

                            OTHER
                                                                                                       

   Student Loan Marketing Association -- $200 million of
notes, due May 17, 1993, was priced at par for an initial
yield of 9.12%. The notes, which are noncallable for two
years, were priced at a spread of 0.20 percentage point above
the Treasury's three-year note through underwriters led by
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. The notes will be reoffered at various
prices.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   IBM Canada Ltd. (U.S.parent) -- 150 million Canadian
dollars (US$129.4 million) of 13 1/2% bonds due May 23, 1995,
priced at 101 3/4 to yield 13.54% less fees, via Credit
Suisse First Boston. Fees 1 7/8.
   Shell Australia Ltd. (Anglo-Dutch) -- 100 million
Australian dollars (US$76.6 million) of 15 1/4% bonds due
June 1, 1995, priced at 101.80 to yield 15.31% less full fees
via Hambros Bank Ltd. Fees 2.
   Aslk-Cger Ifico (Belgian) -- 75 million Swiss francs
($50.4 million) of 8% privately placed notes due May 24,
1993, priced at 100 7/8 via Kredietbank Suisse. Guaranteed by
Algemene Spaar-en Lijfrentekas-Caisse Generale d'Epargne et
de Retraite, Brussels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Siemens AG:
   Fiscal First-Half Earnings
   Rose 15% to $436.6 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.SIE G.NIX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Siemens AG of West Germany, an electronics company, said
profit for its first half ended March 31 rose 15% to 749
million marks ($436.6 million) from 652 million marks a year
earlier.
   Sales rose 16% to 30.4 billion marks from 26.3 billion
marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also said that following approval by the West
German Federal Cartel Office, it completed the purchase of
51% of the voting stock of Nixdorf Computer AG just after its
second quarter ended.
   Siemens said it had sales and earnings gains across the
board, with the total value of new orders on its books rising
12% to 35.8 billion marks in the first half from 31.9 billion
marks a year earlier. It said its overseas operations
recorded a "particularly strong" 21.4 billion marks in new
orders, up 21% from a year earlier; new orders to domestic
operations rose 2% to 14.4 billion marks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Mead Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MEA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MEAD Corp. (Dayton, Ohio) -- Charles W. Joiner, president
of Mead Imaging, was appointed vice president and assistant
to the president, new posts at this forest products and
electronic publishing concern. Mr. Joiner is succeeded by
Jack C. Goldfrank, director of strategic planning, printer
products division, at Eastman Kodak Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Five Firms Seek Software
   For Artificial Intelligence
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   DEC TXN F USW
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Five companies announced a joint project to
develop improved software technology for managing knowledge
with expert systems, a branch of artificial intelligence.
   Carnegie Group Inc., a Pittsburgh-based software company,
joined together with electronics giants Digital Equipment
Corp. and Texas Instruments Inc., auto maker Ford Motor Co.
and U S West Inc., a telephone company. The group said they
are investing a total of $10 million over five years in what
they called the Initiative for Managing Knowledge.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dennis Yablonsky, president of Carnegie Group, said the
project aims to devise a new technique for representing
knowledge in computers that will let different computers and
different software programs incorporate the knowledge. Unlike
current expert systems, the knowledge wouldn't be based on a
single expert's expertise, nor would it be in a
self-contained system, he said.
   David Fawcett, expert systems manager in Ford's
electronics division, said that eventually the technology
might allow computerized design systems laying out printed
circuit boards in Dearborn, Mich., to check a knowledge base
of manufacturing plants to see if a design would pose any
problem.
   The group said it had begun working two years ago and
plans to finish the first phase late this year. It said group
members will be free to use the technology or sell it to
others.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Consolidated Edison Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   ED WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CONSOLIDATED EDISON Co. (New York) -- Richard A. Voell,
president and chief executive officer of The Rockefeller
Group, was elected a director of this utility, increasing the
size of the board to 19.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   H.HKS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Two divisions of Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking
Corp. -- Marine Midland Banks Inc. and Wardley Holdings Ltd.
-- said they plan to integrate their investment-management
subsidiaries.
   The integrated businesses would have a total $10 billion
of assets under discretionary management.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bausch &amp; Lomb Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   BOL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BAUSCH &amp; LOMB Inc. (Rochester, N.Y.) -- Linda Johnson
Rice, president and chief operating officer of Johnson
Publishing Co., was named a director of this health-care and
optical company, succeeding Alexander D. Hargrave, who
retired from the board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Wellcome PLC:
   FDA Clears Use of Drug
   To Treat Shingles in U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.WCM
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   Wellcome PLC of Britain, a major pharmaceutical concern,
said the U.S. Food &amp; Drug Administration approved the use of
its biggest drug, Zorivax, for treatment of shingles in the
U.S.
   Shingles, or herpes zoster, is a viral infection of
certain sensory nerves, causing pain and an eruption of
blisters along the affected nerve. Zovirax already is used to
treat other herpes diseases in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the year ended Aug. 26, Zovirax sales totaled #293
million ($479.1 million), up 36% from a year earlier. A
spokesman declined to forecast earnings from Zovirax sales,
but said the U.S. market is potentially lucrative. An
estimated 300,000 people in the U.S. become affected by
shingles each year, he said. Wellcome said it will begin
marketing the orally dispensed drug through its U.S. unit,
Burroughs Wellcome Co., within several weeks.
   Zovirax has been in use for other herpes diseases since
1981 and was first used as a shingles treatment in Britain in
1987. About 20 countries have approved the drug's usage to
treat shingles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Meridian National Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MRCO WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MERIDIAN NATIONAL Corp. (Toledo, Ohio) -- Patrick J.
Hylant, 41-year-old president of Hylant-MacLean Inc., an
insurance brokerage firm here, was elected a director of this
steel products distribution and processing concern, filling a
vacancy created by the resignation of Lawrence Bell, whose
law firm had represented Meridian National.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Midland Bank PLC:
   Warning on Profit Issued;
   Effect of High Rates Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.MID EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sir Kit McMahon, chairman of Midland Bank PLC, issued a
profit warning, saying high U.K. interest rates are raising
prospects for trouble with the bank's domestic loan
portfolio.
   Sir Kit, speaking at the annual general shareholders'
meeting, didn't provide an exact profit forecast. But he said
that profit is "currently running well below the level
achieved in the very different conditions prevalent in the
first half of last year."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Midland reported first-half 1989 pretax profit of #531
million ($868.2 million), up from #313 million in the
year-earlier period. It posted a pretax loss of #261 million
for all of 1989, largely as the result of extensive loan-loss
provisioning for advances to Third World nations.
   "With the {British} government seeing the need to keep
interest rates high, the deterioration in trading conditions
is continuing and indeed intensifying," Sir Kit said.
   He noted "lower overall asset growth and a further
weakening of margins" are helping to eat into Midland's net
interest income.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's OTC Market Charges Upward
   Despite Plunge of Big Tokyo Exchange
   ----
   By Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Imagine a stock market where investors ignore
basic fundamentals such as earnings and corporate growth
prospects. A market driven by floods of money. A market
trading at mind-boggling price levels.
   If that sounds like the Tokyo stock market of yore, think
again. For some investors in Japan, it's the Tokyo stock
market of today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although a price collapse has dulled the speculative
luster of the once-mighty Tokyo Stock Exchange, Japanese
investors have been quietly transferring some of their old
buying habits to a new market: the over-the-counter market.
   Home to nearly 300 issues, the upstart market has managed
to turn in spectacular gains at a time when the world's
attention has been riveted on the main market's stunning
rout. The Nikkei average of 279 over-the-counter shares is up
52% since the start of the year; the Nikkei average of 225
large-capitalization stock-exchange issues is off nearly 27%.
The OTC market has dropped slightly this week, but investment
professionals expect it to continue attracting interest as
long as the main market is in the doldrums.
   Analysts ascribe the over-the-counter market's booming
success to several factors. Over-the-counter stocks were just
creeping into the spotlight when the Tokyo Stock Exchange
peaked at the end of last year. Nomura Securities Co., the
country's biggest firm, had just launched a $100 million OTC
fund in the U.S. Then, as the major market tumbled, investors
began looking for alternative places to invest.
   Compounding those elements, over-the-counter shares are
scarce. There are only about one-third as many
over-the-counter issues as there are first-section stocks on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange. And the total capitalization of the
over-the-counter market is around 9 trillion yen ($57
billion), compared to the first-section's capitalization of
around 450 trillion yen.
   But, most important, prices were cheap. "There were a lot
of very undervalued stocks there," says Philip Whalley, an
institutional salesman at James Capel &amp; Co.
   No longer. Shoved higher by the weight of money coming
into the market, the average over-the-counter stock trades at
a price of more than 68 times earnings per share. That
compares with price-earnings ratios of less than 42 on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange and about 12 on Wall Street. Now
analysts argue that the over-the-counter market has assumed
many of the worst characteristics of the pre-crash Tokyo
market.
   "Regardless of price-earnings levels or growth rates, the
supply-demand situation is pushing up prices," says Yutaka
Nakai, a strategist for Daiwa Securities Co.
   Some stock-market mavens accuse the major Japanese houses
of intentionally pushing up prices on the over-the-counter
market to try to spark broader investor interest in the
sagging Tokyo market. They point to transactions in which
transaction records show one firm buying a large block of an
over-the-counter stock from another, related firm. But the
brokerage firms deny it. "The market is too small," says a
salesman at Nomura.
   Nonetheless, investors in the market aren't complaining
about their returns. Among over-the-counter stocks, some have
scored stupendous gains this year. And volume has been
soaring as interest in the market spreads.
   NMB Semiconductor Co., a chip maker, is one of the
priciest stocks in Japan at 5.7 million yen, nearly double
its price of around 3 million yen at the start of the year
and representing a price-earnings multiple of 55. Nikkodo
Co., a company that makes audio machines for recording and
amplifying singing, has shot up eightfold since it was listed
last September and now trades at a price-earnings ratio of
150.
   Tesco Co., a small wallpaper maker, is up 83% since the
start of the year and trades at a price-earnings ratio of 58.
   Perhaps the most extreme example of the over-the-counter
market's strength is Japan Associated Finance Co., a Nomura
affiliate that acted as a venture-capital backer for many of
the over-the-counter companies that are now soaring. Its
share price has risen by two-thirds since the start of the
year and its price-earnings multiple now stands at more than
300.
   "That shows how weird price movements in the OTC market
have become," says a foreign investment manager.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Germanys Select July 2
   For Economic, Social Union
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BONN (AP) -- West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl and East
German Prime Minister Lothar de Maiziere named July 2 as the
date for economic and social union of the two Germanys, a
West German spokesman said.
   Union in those areas will bring the divided nation a long
way toward full unification after more than four decades of
separation following Germany's defeat in World War II. The
issue of political union, or holding an election to form a
single government, remains to be worked out.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. Secretary of State James A. Baker III and Soviet
Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, joined by their
colleagues from Britain, France and the two German states,
are scheduled to meet in Bonn May 5. They will try to resolve
difficult international aspects of unification, including
Germany's future military stance.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tidewater Adopts Rights Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TDW
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW ORLEANS -- Tidewater Inc. said its board adopted a
shareholder rights plan to "deter coercive or unfair takeover
tactics."
   The operator of marine operations for the oil and natural
gas industry said the plan calls for one preferred stock
purchase right to be distributed for each common share held
May 7. The rights, which expire May 1, 2000, are exercisable
after the accumulation of 15% or more of the company's common
shares by a "hostile" buyer, Tidewater said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Emerson Electric Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EMR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   EMERSON ELECTRIC Co. (St. Louis) -- Jean-Paul L. Montupet,
formerly vice president of Leroy-Somer S.A., was named to the
new post of executive vice president for this maker of
electrical and electronic equipment's world-wide industrial
motors and drives business. Emerson recently acquired
Leroy-Somer S.A., a French electric motor manufacturer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Cooper Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CBE
</CO>
<LP>
   COOPER INDUSTRIES Inc. (Houston) -- Constantine S.
Nicandros, president and chief executive officer of Conoco
Inc., was elected to the board of this maker of electrical
products, tools, hardware, automotive products and petroleum
and industrial equipment. He succeeds John P. Diesel, 63
years old, who retired.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks End Lower After Afternoon Rally;
   London Index Inches Up but Most Others Decline
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks regained some strength in the afternoon
Tuesday but still ended the day lower as the yen continued in
a downturn, chipping away at buying sentiment and dragging
down stock prices, traders said.
   Shares inched up in London but were down in most other
world markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 selected issues, which
gave up 156.37 points Monday, bounced up from its morning
levels to close at 29501.38, down 177.69. The Nikkei's
intraday low was 29285.09.
   In Tokyo Wednesday, the Nikkei index fell 42.15 to close
the morning session at 29459.23.
   Tuesday's volume on the First Section was estimated at 480
million shares, an improvement from 330 million Monday.
   Losers outnumbered winners, 645 to 310, while 147 issues
remained unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index, or Topix, of all issues
listed in the First Section, which fell 12.96 points Monday,
lost another 8.11 points, or 0.37%, to 2193.09.
   The Second Section index, which retreated 12.35 points
Monday, fell back 23.59 points, or 0.66%, to close at
3526.26. Volume in the Second Section was 10 million shares,
down from 15 million Monday.
   Stock prices had fallen on sell programs by major foreign
brokerage houses, followed by last-minute dealer selling, in
the morning. Selective buying of blue-chips and
domestic-demand-related issues by dealers and some
individuals helped keep prices from falling too far, however.
   But in the afternoon session, several corporate news
reports moved the market, traders said.
   Trading in shares of Suzuki Motor were suspended on all
Japanese markets to allow for fair trading, as the company
announced that it has jointly developed diagnosis devices
with a Dainippon Pharmaceutical subsidiary, the Tokyo Stock
Exchange said.
   The blood-testing devices are to be used in diagnosing
victims of acquired immune deficiency syndrome, or AIDS, and
serum hepatitis.
   While Suzuki Motor had moved only 10 yen (6.3 cents)
higher to 800 yen ($5.07) before trading in the stock was
suspended, Dainippon Pharmaceutical's shares soared 310 yen
to 2,850 on the news.
   According to another local news report, Ricoh Co. invented
a neuro-IC, or integrated chip, which can learn and study
much like the human brain, traders said. The company's stock
jumped 200 to 1,300.
   In addition, the market got a boost from non-life and life
insurance companies, which are said to be set to buy nearly
300 billion yen of stock, one trader at a foreign brokerage
firm said.
   Although overall sentiment is clearly cautious with the
weaker yen and bond markets, especially ahead of the
holidays, factors behind daily movements are becoming
blurred, traders agreed.
   The dollar broke above the 158-yen level Tuesday, up
sharply from 157.55 in both New York and Tokyo late Monday.
   Tuesday's best-performing sectors included
pharmaceuticals, which are generally regarded as safe plays
during yen weakness because of high earnings growth forecasts
and unwavering demand.
   Daiichi Pharmaceutical was up 50 to 2,590, Fujisawa added
40 to 2,040, Ono gained 140 to 5,970 and Taisho
Pharmaceutical rose 50 to 2,370.
   London share prices staged a recovery late in the session
to finish mostly higher after a spate of gloomy corporate
news pressured individual stocks and dragged the market down
throughout most of the trading day.
   Depressed prices lured both bears covering their short
positions and investors charting fresh territory into the
market, buoying share prices, traders said.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index closed
up 0.7 point at 2159.9. The index fell as low as 2150.4
around midday, nearly breaching a psychological support level
of 2150.0 before rebounding. The intraday high of 2168.7 was
reached shortly after official trading commenced.
   At its final tally, the narrower FT 30 share index was up
4.5 points at 1697.2. Volume was a light 372.9 million
shares, compared with 382.6 million Monday.
   In the futures market, the June FT-SE 100 index contract
finished at 2187, up from its close of 2181 Monday.
   After a strong opening on the back of firmer stock-index
futures, shares were bumped lower on a bearish statement from
Midland Bank which said it expects the poor trading
conditions to continue and intensify.
   The news sent bank shares tumbling and investors running
for cover. "Midland Bank's profit warning knocked the
stuffing out of the (market)," one dealer said.
   Several banks, however, managed a smart recuperation in
brisk dealings later in the day, traders said. While Midland
fell 21 pence (34 cents) to 289 pence and Barclays lost 5 to
514, Lloyds managed to put on 7 to 262 and National
Westminster advanced 4 to 315.
   In light of Midland's alarm signal, "the market has
actually performed very well," respecting the 2150.0 mark and
stirring buying interest, one trader said.
   Additionally, early pressure was forced on the market by
news Monday that the Sir James Goldsmith-led consortium
Hoylake abandoned its nine-month battle for B.A.T Industries.
Shares in the tobacco and financial services conglomerate
plummeted 23 to 701.
   But on the other side of the coin, shares in food group
Ranks Hovis McDougall climbed 12 to 387, as speculation
intensified that it might be an attractive substitute for
B.A.T, as Sunningdale Holdings, a consortium in which Mr.
Goldsmith participates, controls a near-30% stake in RHM.
   In other takeover situations, shares in retailer
Kingfisher fell 9 to 280 as the market awaits a ruling by the
U.K. Monopolies and Mergers Commission about its bid for
electrical retailer Dixons. One trader suggested that
sentiment leaned towards the commission's allowing the
takeover to proceed, although Dixons might try to fetch a
higher price. Dixons climbed 4 to 120.
   Elsewhere around the market, building materials group
Tarmac added 17 to 225 following news that its pretax profit
for 1989 declined just 4%, healthier than expectations.
   Stocks closed higher in Paris, lower in Frankfurt, Zurich,
Brussels, Stockholm and Milan, and mixed in Amsterdam. South
African golds closed mixed.
   Share prices closed lower in Sydney, Hong Kong,
Wellington, Manila, Singapore and Seoul and were higher in
Taipei.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                     % This
                                    Apr 23   Apr 20   Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ...........................  306.1    309.7  -  5.8
   Britain ........................  641.4    648.6  - 11.0
   Canada .........................  366.2    366.7  - 15.3
   Japan .......................... 1254.4   1263.4  - 24.2
   France .........................  583.5    593.0  +  2.9
   Germany ........................  296.7    303.1  +  4.0
   Hong Kong ...................... 2276.9   2284.8  +  8.6
   Switzerland ....................  203.9    203.9  -  7.6
   Australia ......................  298.3    300.3  -  9.9
   World index ....................  480.3    485.7  - 15.3
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Comerica Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMCA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   COMERICA Inc. (Detroit) -- John D. Lewis, 41 years old,
was elected a director of this bank holding company. Mr.
Lewis, a vice chairman of Comerica, succeeds Walter B. Ford
II, who had been a board member since 1966. Mr. Ford, 69, was
ineligible to stand for re-election under the company's
retirement policy for directors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   EPA Considers Proposals
   To Recycle, Reduce CFCs
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Environmental Protection Agency is
considering a range of recycling proposals designed to reduce
emissions of air conditioning coolants and other chemicals
that damage the stratospheric ozone layer.
   These chemicals -- chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs -- are
frequently released when auto and commercial air conditioning
and refrigeration units are serviced. The EPA proposals,
which include mandatory and voluntary recycling programs, are
designed to ensure that the chemicals are reused, rather than
released into the atmosphere.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ozone layer helps shield the Earth from harmful
ultraviolet radiation, which causes skin cancer.
   President Bush has committed the U.S. to phase out the
production and importation of CFCs by the year 2000, under an
international treaty process. An EPA official explained that
recycling could cut $2 billion from industry's estimated $4.7
billion cost of phasing out CFCs and halons, another
ozone-depleting chemical, by 2000.
   A notice inviting public comment on the proposals will
appear in the Federal Register soon.
   Initially, the program would focus on the motor-vehicle
air conditioning industry, which accounts for 21% of CFC use
in the U.S. The agency estimates that 63% of CFC use in the
U.S. occurs in industries where recycling is feasible.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Hoechst AG:
   German Chemical Company
   Raises Dividend to Holders
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   G.HFA G.BAY
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hoechst AG joined other major West German chemical
companies by boosting its annual cash dividend for 1989 to 13
Deutsche marks ($7.64) a share from the 12 marks a share paid
for the previous year.
   Earlier in the day, Bayer AG announced a similar dividend
boost to 13 marks a share, while the last of the big three
West German chemical groups, BASF AG, said last week it would
boost its regular cash payout by a mark to 13 marks and
distribute a special one-mark cash payout to holders to
celebrate the company's 125th anniversary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hoechst also said group net profit in 1989 rose 5.7% to
2.13 billion marks from 2.02 billion marks in 1988. Group
sales rose 12% to 45.9 billion marks from 40.96 billion
marks.
   Bayer's group after-tax profit last year rose 11% to 2.12
billion marks from 1.91 billion marks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Interstate Bancorp Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   I NCS
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- First Interstate Bancorp said it reached an
agreement with National Convenience Stores that will allow
First Interstate customers to use their automated teller
machine cards to purchase merchandise and gasoline at certain
of National's Stop N Go Stores outlets.
   The bank holding company said it expects about 100
California Stop N Go locations to participate in the program,
using electronic terminals in those stores. It also expects
to expand the program to Texas, and potentially Washington
and Arizona, First Interstate said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Dresdner Bank Group:
   Stake of 7.5% Is Acquired
   In Taiwan's Investment Arm
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DRSDY FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Dresdner Bank Group of West Germany said it acquired a
7.5% stake in Grand Cathay Securities Corp. of Taipei, an
integrated securities house that is the investment arm of the
ruling Kuomintang Party. This marks the first time a European
bank has penetrated Taiwan's securities business.
   A Dresdner official cited the liberalization of Taiwan's
financial market in choosing to make the investment. Grand
Cathay was established in December 1988, capitalized at 1.5
billion New Taiwan dollars (US$57.3 million). Dresdner Bank
set up a representative office in Taiwan in 1985.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank also announced the formation of Dresdner Thornton
Securities Investment Consulting Co. in Taipei to provide
local investors with Deutscher InvestmentTrust mutual funds
and Thornton Group funds in Asia and Europe. It will be a
joint venture by Dresdner Bank Group and one of its members,
the Thornton Group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Environmental Concerns
   Attached to Lease Offerings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (INR)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Interior Department, fighting for
congressional support for new offshore oil drilling, is
promising to pay more attention to environmental
considerations in offering leases.
   The department said it wants to allow drilling only in
areas where doing so wouldn't harm marine life and where
there is a good chance of finding oil. The policy would mark
a departure from the Reagan administration's approach of
making vast offshore areas available, only to have Congress
deny money to carry out the leasing program in many of them.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposal is to be included in a new five-year plan for
the Outer Continental Shelf that would take effect when the
current plan expires in 1992. A draft plan is expected to be
available for public comment in the next couple of months.
   President Bush is expected soon to announce a long-awaited
decision on whether he will allow certain lease sales to
proceed off Florida and California. An Interior Department
spokesman said the agency would incorporate the president's
decision and other guidance from the White House into its
draft plan.
   Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan is also considering
proposing that local governments be allowed to share in the
revenue from oil lease sales. Currently, some revenue is
shared with the states. A report on the Interior Department's
proposals appeared in yesterday's New York Times.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Marketers Tailor Coupons to Hispanics
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   MO CL PG IPG USBC TTOY GIS
</CO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Most Americans have had it with coupons. With more than
265 billion of them distributed last year alone, it's no
wonder redemption rates among a coupon-weary population are
steadily sliding.
   That's why manufacturers are scrambling to find new
markets that aren't saturated with coupons, and they think
they've hit on a big one -- the U.S. Hispanic population.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For years, most packaged-goods companies largely avoided
Hispanics, even though they account for as much as 10% of the
general population by some estimates. Hispanics didn't seem
to redeem as many as other population groups. Often, they
equated the coupons with food stamps as symbols of poverty.
   But recently, mass marketers have been learning how to
tailor coupons so that they're accepted in Spanish-speaking
barrios, where resistance has been greatest.
   Procter &amp; Gamble and Colgate-Palmolive are generally
considered pioneers, and are fast being joined by others,
including Philip Morris's Kraft General Foods and General
Mills.
   "The general market is saturated with coupons, and usage
is declining," says Sigfredo A. Hernandez, an assistant
professor of marketing at Ryder College, and co-author of a
study of Hispanic coupon usage. "That's why marketers should
pay attention to the Hispanic market. It's unsaturated -- and
it's up to marketers to take advantage of it."
   Certainly, the potential is there. In 1988, the average
U.S household received a staggering 2,500 coupons apiece. Yet
the average U.S. Hispanic household received just 20 coupons,
according to Kenneth Mitnick, president of Coupons Plus Inc.,
which distributes coupons to Spanish-speaking homes. Perhaps
the reason why Hispanic redemption rates are lower than
general rates, Mr. Mitnick suggests, is that "you cannot use
what you don't receive."
   Mass marketers, meanwhile, are faced with growing
disenchantment as they continue to throw billions of coupons
at the general market. Even as the total number of coupons
distributed nationwide has climbed steadily to 267.6 billion
last year, redemption has steadily dropped from more than 3%
to 2.7% in the past five years, according to Nielsen Clearing
House.
   While mass marketers readily agree that Hispanics are a
relatively untapped market, few have successfully tackled the
market, because so few have understood it. According to Mr.
Hernandez, 49% of Hispanics are partially assimilated into
U.S. culture, while 38% aren't assimilated at all. He says
neither group tends to read English-language Sunday
newspapers, where the vast majority of coupons are found.
   Some Hispanics aren't familiar with how to use coupons,
which aren't generally used in Latin America. That problem is
compounded by the fact that few marketers have printed
coupons in Spanish, the first language of many Hispanics. In
the Philadelphia barrio that Mr. Hernandez studied, many
corner bodegas didn't even accept coupons.
   Some savvier mass marketers are getting around those
problems by avoiding the print media, which is used to
distribute coupons to the general population. Instead, they
use direct mail, coupons in stores or even coupons delivered
door to door.
   Hispanic ad agency Font &amp; Vaamonde, for one, says it has
gotten redemption rates of 30% by delivering coupons door to
door, usually in combination with a promotion or sweepstakes.
It also hands out coupons in stores, often at the same time
as sampling or demonstration programs are going on in the
store. Among the agency's clients is Procter &amp; Gamble, for
which it handles Downy, Crisco and other brands.
   Mr. Mitnick's Coupons Plus, meanwhile, distributes
bilingual books of coupons by mail and in stores, and backs
up the booklets with advertising on Spanish-language
television. Among its clients is General Mills, which
advertises its cereals, Hamburger Helper and other brands. He
says that Hispanics have been "tremendously responsive" to
the promotions. The only reason they weren't more so in the
past, he contends, is because marketers didn't take the time
to try to reach them in Spanish and to explain how coupons
work.
   "The Hispanic consumer of 1990 is like the general market
consumer of the 1950s, when there wasn't the degree of
clutter there is today" he says. "They aren't jaded. They
appreciate advertisers who speak to them in their own
language. It shows a high level of respect for them, and they
respond by buying products directly advertised to them."
   ---
   Ayer Set to `Stretch' Itself
                                                                                                       

   At its annual shareholders meeting today, Ayer will
announce plans to launch an aggressive "brand strategy" for
the agency called "Stretch."
   Jerry J. Siano, Ayer chairman and chief executive officer,
said the strategy was developed as both an in-house measure
to challenge employees and as an effort to build the shop's
image on Madison Avenue. "These are goals to make us a much
more exciting, innovative organization," he said.
   As part of the "Stretch" plan, the agency developed a
symbol of an arrow pointing upward. It plans to put the arrow
on posters, new business literature and house ads that tout
the new strategy.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   EARNINGS: Interpublic Group of Cos., New York, reported
first-quarter net income rose 7.8% to $8.6 million, or 26
cents a share, from $8 million, or 24 cents a share, in the
year-earlier period. Revenue increased 2.9% to $284.5 million
from $276.5 million. Interpublic agencies include
McCann-Erickson, Lintas and Dailey &amp; Associates.
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: U.S. Bancorp, Portland, Ore., awarded its $5
million account to Borders, Perrin &amp; Norrander of Portland.
The account had previously been handled by Cole &amp; Weber,
Seattle.
                                                                                                       

   ACQUISITION: D'Arcy Masius Benton &amp; Bowles, New York,
acquired Weekes Morris &amp; Osborn, an agency based in Sydney,
Australia. The shop, which will be merged with DMB&amp;B/Sydney,
will be renamed DMB&amp;B/Weekes Morris &amp; Osborn. The agency will
have billings of about $30 million. Terms weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   TYCO TOYS: Tyco Toys, Mt. Laurel, N.J., named Bozell,
which previously handled only the creative portion of its $40
million account, to handle its media buying.
   Bohbot Communications previously handled the media
assignment.
                                                                                                       

   MARLBORO BOYCOTT: The Washington, D.C., chapter of Act-Up,
a coalition of gay and lesbian activists that lobbies for
AIDS legislation, will launch a boycott of Marlboro
cigarettes on Thursday in a bid to unseat Sen. Jesse Helms
(R., N.C.). A spokesman for Act-Up said it chose Marlboro
because it is made by Philip Morris, a large corporate
contributor to Sen. Helms's political campaigns. Act-Up said
it's unhappy with Sen. Helms's voting record on issues
involving acquired immune deficiency syndrome. A Philip
Morris spokeswoman confirmed it contributes to Sen. Helms's
political action committees, but said it donates "three
times" as much money to AIDS research.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Between the Lines of Financial Journalism
   ----
   By Susan Lee
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Yo] A book about the power of the financial press. This
must be a book that asks the big questions: why certain ideas
find a home with the mainstream press and others, equally
worthy, do not; how the press pushes and massages economic
ideas into political agendas; why dogmas go out of fashion.
This must be a book that asks -- and answers -- the question
of just how powerful the press is in determining everyday
economic life. In short, this must be one mighty interesting
book. Wrong.
   "The Power of the Financial Press" (Rutgers University
Press, 266 pages, $24.95), by Wayne Parsons, focuses instead
on a few economists and a few publications, asking, but not
always answering, why they did what they did. Though the
personalities are interesting, Mr. Parsons has not found an
engaging way to present them. And the publications might be
interesting, but again, those telling details that make for a
good yarn are absent.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Parsons's hypothesis is a slippery thing to get hold
of. A reasonable guess is he's out to prove that economic
ideas can't have much influence beyond the influence they
exert in the imagination of the press. And that the easiest
way to exert influence is to get down and dirty and be an
economist-journalist-propagandist. But at the same time, he
seems to argue that such power-mongering is fading, because
of the growth of electronic networks and data bases.
   "The Power of the Financial Press" offers too much of some
things and not enough of others. For starters, there's much
too much history, and for another there's way too much on
Britain. Whatever parallels exist between Britain and the
U.S. to warrant such attention, they eluded Mr. Parsons.
   Too much is written about John Maynard Keynes. Well, too
much of the same thing, anyhow. Over and over again we are
told that Keynes set out to influence the times and thus the
press. Perhaps those who know nothing of Keynes will be
astonished at this piece of insight or a description of his
tactics -- he wrote often and broadly -- but those who have
been awake and breathing for the past several decades will be
bored by the endless reminders.
   Too much is written about John Kenneth Galbraith. Mr.
Galbraith is one of a handful of economist-personalities
highlighted by Mr. Parsons. But Mr. Galbraith, whose work is
unoriginal and decidedly unrigorous (polite phrase for
sloppy), hardly deserves the same billing as Keynes, Paul
Samuelson and Milton Friedman.
   At the same time, Mr. Parsons takes too little notice of
contradictions in his own thesis. For example, supply-side
economics didn't succeed because it captured the press. With
the exception of this paper's editorial page, the press first
ignored, then ridiculed, supply-siders. Supply-side economics
succeeded because it captured the enthusiasm of the
president. And the president succeeded because his ideas were
shared by most Americans. Indeed, the interesting thing is
how little power the press had to stop supply-side economics;
Mr. Parsons ignores this rough spot.
   Too little attention is given to other major personalities
who shaped the economic debate. Surely a book about the power
of the financial press ought to have had more to say on
columnist Leonard Silk, who defined American economics
reporting in Business Week and the New York Times. Ditto for
"academic scribblers" such as Martin Feldstein and Herbert
Stein.
   There also is too little about what was going on in the
economy. The interaction between the personalities and the
publications takes place center stage while the conditions
that encouraged or discouraged fashions in economic thought
are added, here and there, as an afterthought.
   Too little time is spent, for example, describing just
what was going on in the U.S. after a decade or two of
Keynesianism. Thus, the uninitiated might wonder why that
house of cards collapsed so swiftly and why the weary world
built another one out of the monetarist deck.
   Keynesianism took hold not because Keynes was an
indefatigable propagandist but because conditions were ripe
for a spell of big government. The economy was a disaster and
the country was willing to believe -- after two World Wars --
that in times of dramatic stress, the government could
organize and direct the economy.
   Monetarism took hold not because Milton Friedman was a
formidable propagandist, but because big government -- big
spending created another disaster: stagflation. And
supply-side economics caught on not because Arthur Laffer was
a clever propagandist but because the U.S. economy was bent
under high marginal tax rates, stagflation and
overregulation.
   Finally, there is too little of the last chapter. Here,
Mr. Parsons suddenly comes to life and offers a sweeping look
at the revolution in financial communications and the
commoditization of information. He laments the passing of the
era of economic gurus and worries that the press might not be
up to making sense of the current info glut. And although he
may have misplaced his emotions, this chapter is interesting.
   ---
   Ms. Lee is writing a book on economic crises.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Loses Steam on Inflation Fears
   After Early Rally; Finnigan Jumps 4 1/2
   ----
   By Anne Newman and Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Shares of over-the-counter stocks slipped in the last hour
of trading, losing their grip on a morning rally as concerns
about rising interest rates and inflation fears continued to
haunt investors.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index fell .89, or 0.2%, to 419.19.
Trading remained light at 126.7 million shares, up slightly
from 125.9 million Monday. Advancing shares closed the gap
with declining stocks but still trailed, 870 to 1,040, while
191 stocks hit new lows and 57 struck new highs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Traders said technology issues were pressured by a late
afternoon news service report that Compaq's first-quarter
growth for domestic personal computer sales would be flat.
However, analysts at Goldman Sachs and Hambrecht &amp; Quist told
Dow Jones Professional Investor Report there was nothing new
in the report and they aren't changing their earnings
estimates for the computer maker.
   As shares of Compaq fell, Apple closed off 1 at 38 3/4,
Intel fell 1/2 to 39, Seagate Technology dropped 1 to 11 1/4
and Microsoft fell 1 to 58. The Nasdaq 100 index, which
tracks larger stocks and includes many technology shares,
fell 1.74 to 409.52.
   But most of the day was marked by cautious trading, much
of it among market dealers, traders said. E.E. "Buzzy"
Geduld, president of Herzog Heine Geduld, said market makers
trading among themselves accounted for more business than
institutional investors.
   In what trading institutions did conduct, "the stocks
moved sideways," said Robert O'Toole Sr., head of
institutional OTC trading at Shearson Lehman Hutton. "These
stocks tried to bounce, but it was a standoff," he added.
   William Rothe, head of OTC trading at Alex. Brown &amp; Sons
in Baltimore, suggested the market won't rally significantly
until fears about higher interest rates and inflation ease.
"You're going to have to see something positive happen on
that front to get a meaningful rally," Mr. Rothe said. He
added that investors continued to selectively buy "bargain
stocks."
   Finnigan was one of the day's biggest gainers, adding 4
1/2 to 18 3/4. The San Jose, Calif., maker of scientific
instruments signed a memorandum of understanding to be
acquired by Thermo Instrument Systems for $20 a share.
Finnigan also reported a first-quarter loss of 20 cents a
share yesterday, compared with year-earlier net income of six
cents a share.
   Weyenberg Shoe Manufacturing jumped 3 1/2 to 59 after
reporting first-quarter profit of $1.33 a share, up from
$1.23 a year before. The company, based in Milwaukee, also
declared a two-for-one stock split and increased the dividend
on a post-split basis to 15 cents a share from 12.5 cents.
Shareholders approved changing the company's name to Weyco
Group Inc.
   Peerless Manufacturing surged 3 to 35 on its fiscal
third-quarter earnings report. The Dallas maker of oil and
gas control equipment earned $1.51 a share in the quarter
ended March 31, up from six cents a year earlier.
   Image Bank fell 2 3/4 to 5 1/4 after restating its
first-quarter net income sharply downward. In February, the
photo agency said it had earned 12 cents a share in the
quarter ended Dec. 31, but yesterday restated that figure as
seven cents a share. The company said the earlier earnings
report failed to account for certain purchase invoices for
books that were included in the Dec. 31 inventory of its
recently acquired British unit, Book People Ltd.
   The American depositary receipts of AB Volvo closed
unchanged at 55 3/4. Pharmacia AB said its board unanimously
recommended that its shareholders accept tender offers by
Volvo and Procordia AB.
   Poughkeepsie Savings Bank was a loser among bank stocks.
It fell 1 to 5 1/8 after suspending its quarterly dividend
and reported a $2.21-a-share loss for the first quarter,
compared to net income of 53 cents a share a year earlier.
The bank made $8 million in loan-loss provisions in the
quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Motors Corp.:
   Joint Venture With Fiat
   Dissolved, Dispute Settled
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FIA GM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Motors Corp., Detroit, and Fiat S.p.A. of Italy
have dissolved their six-year partnership in an automated
factory tooling venture, and settled a dispute that arose out
of the venture's work tooling up two of GM's U.S. car plants.
   As part of the transaction, GM has sold back to Fiat its
20% stake in the venture, Comau Productivity Systems Inc. of
Troy, Mich. The companies wouldn't disclose the amount Fiat
paid to GM for its Comau Productivity Systems shares. Comau
Productivity Systems will now operate as a unit of Fiat's
U.S. arm, the companies said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, GM and the Fiat unit said they settled a
dispute that arose over the cost of tooling installed by
Comau at GM's Linden, N.J., and Wilmington, Del., car
factories. The terms of the settlement weren't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ranks of Southern Baptists
   Appear to Be Overstated
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<LP>
   The Southern Baptist Convention officially claims 14.9
million members, making it the largest of America's
Protestant denominations.
   By contrast, the Roman Catholic Church claims 54 million
adherents in the U.S., although sociologists say that number
includes many "cultural Catholics" who are no longer
practicing church members, and the American Baptist Churches,
formerly the Northern Baptists, claim 1.6 million members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Southern Baptist statisticians and even some top
denomination officials acknowledge that the 14.9 million
figure for the Southern Baptists is overstated, and that as
many as half that number no longer set foot in a Southern
Baptist church.
   The figure includes as many as 4.4 million so-called
nonresident members, a technical term that actually allows
the counting as members those the church has simply lost
touch with, Southern Baptist pastors say.
   From church records, the convention's Sunday School Board
also calculates that another three million people haven't
attended their church or donated to one in the past year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Western Union to Propose Swap Offer
   To Note Holders to Avoid Chapter 11
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   WU
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Western Union Corp., trying to avoid a Chapter
11 bankruptcy-law filing, said it will make a proposal to
recapitalize with an exchange offer of new secured debt and
common stock.
   The company said it will file "within the next few
business days" a registration statement and proxy materials
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, providing an
outline of the exchange offer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In March, Western Union told the SEC in its annual filing
that it could be forced to seek protection under the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code if it doesn't work out a suitable
restructuring of its debt or raise sufficient funds through
asset sales.
   The 139-year-old company has been hit by a steep decline
in its telex business amid an explosion in facsimile
transmission. And Western is meeting stiff competition from
American Express Co. and MCI Communications Corp. in the
money-transfer and electronic mail businesses.
   In its filing with the SEC, Western Union said it will
request clearance from the commission to make the exchange
offer to holders of its senior secured reset notes due Dec.
15, 1992, which currently carry an interest payment of
19.25%, as well as to holders of 16% notes due June 15, 1991.
   Western is also seeking approval from its stockholders to
reclassify its widely distributed preferred shares and the
Class B common shares held by Brooke Partners L.P. into an as
yet undisclosed number of regular common shares.
   Brooke, which controls Western, has been wrestling with
the company's senior reset bonds, which currently total $500
million. The terms of these bonds require Western to raise
the interest rate on the bonds from 16.5% to a level that
would allow them to trade at par. This year the company
raised the rate to 19.25%, but the bonds nonetheless are
trading at 37 cents on the dollar, or $370 for each $1,000
note. And the interest burden on this senior debt will hit
$96 million this year. The total interest expense is $116
million, a Western Union spokesman said.
   "The current level of debt payments is not sustainable by
the business," he said. Cash flow available to pay off the
company's debt in 1989 totaled $62 million, he said.
   On April 6 Western met with a group of its senior note
holders that had agreed in writing to keep the briefing
confidential and not to trade on the company's securities
until the proceedings were made public.
   At that meeting Western told the holders that the company
now operates as two units -- financial services and business
services. Financial services include money transfer, a bill
payment service (formerly National Payments Network, which
Western acquired in 1989), Mailgram and Telegram. Business
services include telex, the EasyLink electronic mail service,
and Priority Mail service.
   Western said the two units together had operating profit
of $167 million last year.
   Western also disclosed that it had cut annual expenses by
more than $100 million in 1989 to $655 million, primarily
because of a 50% reduction in its work force to 3,800
employees and reduced lease charges for transmission lines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- The Gallery:
   Decades of Decay
   ----
   By Jack Flam
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   The habit of trying to characterize the mood of a decade
in a couple of words results in a good deal of distortion.
The swinging '60s, the selfish '70s or the egomaniacal '80s
may be suggestive tags but they obviously also leave a lot
out.
   Such generalizations are especially problematical with
regard to the art of a decade, as is evident in two current
museum shows that attempt to give overviews of art created
during the past 25 years. "The New Sculpture, 1965-1975:
Between Geometry and Gesture," on view at New York's Whitney
Museum of American Art until June 3, features 10 artists who
curators Richard Armstrong and Richard Marshall think were
crucial to the redefinition of sculpture. In "Culture and
Commentary: An Eighties Perspective," which will be at
Washington's Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden until May
6, guest curator Kathy Halbreich has chosen 15 artists who
came to maturity during the past decade and who she thinks
helped to shape the main cultural forces active during that
time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Whitney show centers on the movement usually known as
process art or post-minimalism, which was a reaction against
the extreme understatement and stripped-down geometrical
purism of the minimalist movement. As is readily seen at the
Whitney, this was a kind of art that was purposely made not
to look like art. The materials the artists chose were often
radically unconventional, and many of the works were
purposely impermanent.
   Robert Smithson, for example, worked largely with mounds
of earth and rocks, and Barry Le Va liked to scatter pieces
of felt mixed with shiny ball bearings across hardwood
floors. In 1967 Richard Serra, now known for his aggressively
austere steel slabs, was making calligraphic wall pieces,
such as the untitled piece shown in this show, composed of
rubber strips and neon tubes.
   The exhibition is chronologically arranged. It covers the
years 1965 to 1969 on the second floor of the museum and the
early '70s on the fourth floor. Yet everything within these
divisions is so jumbled together that it is hard to get a
sense of how the individual artists developed during the
period in question. But in a show like this, the confusion
and crowding actually enhance our sense of the art by
emphasizing the sense of energy, iconoclasm and risk that the
works embody. And these are works that quite literally
redefined the nature of sculpture and the space that it
occupies, and that gave sculpture an unprecedented freedom
from both painterly conventions and the constraints of
traditional figuration. Seeing this show reminds one of the
passion and solemnity with which so many people at the time
said, "Painting is dead."
   It also was the time of U.S. involvement in Vietnam, and
the art shown here originally had strong political overtones,
which no longer are readily apparent. In fact, although the
scrubby materials and the flirtation with chaos recall the
rampant iconoclasm of those years, much of the social content
of this art has become nearly invisible. At the time, many of
these works were meant not only to be anti-formal but also to
be anti-collectible, in protest against what was perceived as
the rampant materialism of the period. Now, as a result of
changed times, a number of the works in the show are
reconstructions of originals that self-destructed according
to plan but whose absence has now become a cause for regret.
To say that the anti-market stance of that period now seems
somewhat quaint is to put this phenomenon in the kindest of
lights.
   In its somewhat ambivalent critique of the market, as well
as in its emphasis on found objects, post-minimalist
sculpture descends quite clearly from the radical works of
Marcel Duchamp. Around the time of the first World War,
Duchamp acquired a number of "ready-made" objects, such as a
bottle rack, a snow shovel and a urinal, and exhibited them
as art. In doing so, he literally changed the definition of
art. A work of art no longer had to be an image that
conformed to preconceived notions of beauty, but could
instead be defined simply as an object to which meaning
accrued.
   In the '80s, by contrast, works of art frequently came to
be described primarily as objects to which money accrued. The
centrality of the marketplace is duly noted in "Culture and
Commentary," in which some of the hot tickets of the '80s are
brought together under the general heading of "art as a
reflection of culture." Or is it actually culture as a
reflection of art? No matter, for the underlying thesis of
this show seems to be that in our day and age just about
everything is interchangeable with just about everything
else. By carefully avoiding any ideological or aesthetic
commitment, this show becomes a museological equivalent of a
"Greatest Hits of the Eighties" album.
   The anthology starts with what can be read as an
unintentional metaphor, in that the very first room you walk
into seems at first to be empty. But eventually you realize
that what you took for a large box is actually German artist
Reinhard Mucha's minimalist "Gruiten" of 1985-89. A little
further on, there is a sudden but refreshing change of pace
in the form of Laurie Anderson's 1982 video, "Superman." This
is to my mind the best single work in the show. It is full of
the zany but artful intensity of Ms. Anderson's work before
she began to work in the cutesy/hip manner that made her a
pop star.
   Julian Schnabel's offering -- one wonders why David Salle
wasn't included too, just to be safe -- is, in a word,
pathetic. When I first saw the large portraits here painted
over cracked plates, I thought they were ripoffs (or, if you
must, appropriations) by someone else. But no, this and the
even more dismal black velvet "Portrait of Andy Warhol," of
1982, turn out to be by the aging "Wunderkind" himself.
   It is with enormous relief that you make your way into the
room full of English sculptor Tony Cragg's fanciful and
poetic objects. This probably is the most satisfying
installation in the show, though Mr. Cragg's "Real Plastic
Love" of 1984, a wall relief of an embracing couple composed
of brightly colored plastic objects, seems overly cute. But
then again, compared to such pure market phenomena as Jeff
Koons's garish three-dimensional cartoon of a bear talking to
a policeman, even this relatively weak piece by Cragg comes
across like a Michelangelo.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Hewlett-Packard Co.:
   Pact Is Signed With Unit
   Of McDonnell Douglas
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   HWP MD
</CO>
<LP>
   Hewlett-Packard Co., Palo Alto, Calif., said it signed a
three-year, $75 million contract with McDonnell Douglas
Systems Integration Co. that allows resale of Hewlett's 9000
family of workstations with McDonnell Douglas software.
   Under the agreement, the unit of McDonnell Douglas Corp.
will use its Unigraphics software in the Hewlett 9000
workstations, which use chips based on Motorola and RISC, or
reduced instruction set computing, technology.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The combination of Hewlett workstations equipped with
Unigraphics software is designed to take advantage of the
growing market for computer-aided design and computer-aided
manufacturing for major auto, aerospace and manufacturing
concerns, the two companies said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Petroleum Helicopters Inc.:
   Industrial Equity (Pacific)
   Files to Raise Stake to 25%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PHEL H.IEP A.BRY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd., a Hong Kong investment
firm, said it filed with federal antitrust regulators to
raise its stake in Petroleum Helicopters Inc. to as much as
25%.
   In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Industrial
Equity (Pacific) also said it sent a letter to Petroleum
Helicopters Thursday saying it intended to seek board
representation. According to the filing, that request was
denied.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In New Orleans, John La Plante, secretary and treasurer of
Petroleum Helicopters, had no comment "at the present time,"
but he confirmed the company received the letter seeking
representation.
   In December, Industrial Equity (Pacific) said it raised
its stake in Petroleum Helicopters to the equivalent of 17%,
including an option to buy 12%.
   In the filing, Industrial Equity (Pacific) said it had
discussions with Petroleum Helicopters' management concerning
ways of maximizing long-term shareholder value and expects to
continue such talks.
   Petroleum Helicopters was quoted at $25.50 bid in
over-the-counter trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Piper Jaffray Inc.:
   Second-Period Net Fell 19%,
   While Revenue Grew 4.9%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<CO>
   PIPR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Piper Jaffray Inc., citing swelling expenses and a
downturn in some operations, said earnings fell 19% in its
second quarter ended March 30, despite a 4.9% increase in
revenue.
   The Minneapolis parent company of the investment firm of
Piper, Jaffray &amp; Hopwood Inc. said it earned $2.1 million, or
52 cents a share, compared to the year-earlier $2.6 million,
or 65 cents a share. Revenue rose to $49.5 million, from
$47.2 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Second-quarter earnings "were less than we had expected,"
said Charles N. Hayssen, chief financial officer. "We simply
let certain expenses get slightly ahead of revenues." He said
the company intends "to correct that in the next six months."
   The investment firm said commission revenue climbed about
40% from last year, and trading profits are up about 15%.
Asset management fees also are up about 40%, reflecting the
growth of the company's Piper Capital Management unit. The
company's investment banking business is down about 20%,
"which is true industrywide," Mr. Hayssen said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks End Lower as Bonds Falter;
   Sears Roebuck Hits 52-Week Low
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Interest-rate concerns continued to take a
toll on the stock market, which matched its longest losing
streak of the year by falling for the fifth straight session.
   Stocks began the session by moving higher along with
bonds, but were unable to hold the gains after renewed
weakness developed in the bond market, sending rates higher.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which climbed more than
11 points shortly after the opening, closed at 2,654.50, down
12.17. The average had dropped five consecutive times in
January and again in February.
   Among broader measures, Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index
slipped 0.69 to 330.36 and the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Index dropped 0.42 to 181.51.
   Declining issues outnumbered advancers 833 to 652 on the
Big Board, where the pace of trading remained slow. Volume on
the Big Board was 137,360,000 shares, little changed from
Monday's total of 136,150,000.
   Stocks posted their initial gains after the bond market
shrugged off a better-than-expected report on March orders
for durable goods, which rose 6.7%. At their session highs,
Treasury notes and bonds showed gains of as much as 1/2
point, or $5 per $1,000 face amount.
   But when Treasury issues resumed their recent decline,
stock prices headed lower as well. At least four rounds of
futures-related program selling hit the market over the
course of the afternoon, traders said, with the worst damage
coming in the final hour of trading.
   "People are continuing to focus on rates, the fact that
they're not moving lower," said Ronald B. Doran, head of
institutional trading at First Albany Corp. The yields on
Treasury issues increased as prices retreated; but at
closing, the issues were unchanged.
   Although the market's latest sell-off was relatively
narrow by the standards of its latest losing streak -- more
than 1,000 issues finished lower on the Big Board in three
out of the five sessions -- some analysts said the downturn
has yet to produce the kind of technical readings that would
indicate the selling has become excessive.
   "We're going to get to a point where you get people
starting to legitimately panic here. I don't think you're
there yet," said Edward P. Nicoski, managing director of
technical analysis at Piper, Jaffray &amp; Hopwood, Minneapolis.
   But Mr. Nicoski noted that his firm's latest survey of 340
industry groups, finished Monday, showed that more than
one-quarter of the groups had dropped to 52-week lows while
none stood at 52-week highs. In addition, only 11% of those
sectors were above their moving average for the prior 40
weeks, a long-term performance measure.
   Sears Roebuck tumbled 1 1/8 to 35 3/8, a 52-week low, in
the wake of its first-quarter earnings report. The company's
net income for the period fell 59% from the year-ago level;
its earnings per share of 31 cents was below analysts'
forecasts.
   Conversely, a stronger-than-expected earnings report for
the first quarter sent Chevron rising 7/8 to 64 3/4. The
company reported a 51% rise in its net income.
   Ames Department Stores, the Big Board's most active issue,
slid 5/8 to 1 3/8 on 3.7 million shares. The Hartford Courant
reported that the financially troubled retailer hired a
bankruptcy specialist with Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp;
Flom, a New York law firm, to begin preparing for a possible
Chapter 11 filing. TJX, which holds a major stake in Ames,
dropped 7/8 to 12 5/8 on 1.3 million shares.
   Santa Fe Pacific gained 5/8 to 21. The company said it
plans to spin off its remaining 80% stake in its real-estate
unit and 81.7% interest in its energy business to
shareholders during the third quarter. Shares of the energy
subsidiary, Santa Fe Resources, rose 1/8 to 16.
   Quaker Oats, which said its board approved in principle a
spinoff of its Fisher-Price toy unit to shareholders early
next year, rose 5/8 to 49 1/4. The company also reported that
its net income from continuing operations for its first
quarter was up 10% from a year ago.
   Merry-Go-Round Enterprises advanced 3/4 to 21 1/4.
Montgomery Securities raised estimates of the company's
earnings for the first quarter, fiscal 1991 and fiscal 1992,
citing sales gains that have been "much stronger than
expected." The company told Dow Jones Professional Investor
Report its April sales for stores open at least one year
probably will be 40% to 50% higher than a year earlier, with
total sales climbing 60% to 65%.
   Schering-Plough rose 1/4 to 80 1/8 after increasing its
quarterly dividend by 24%, to 56 cents a share, and declaring
a 2-for-1 stock split.
   Blockbuster Entertainment, which reported that
first-quarter net jumped 82% from a year ago, gained 7/8 to
18 3/8. Strong quarterly earnings reports also boosted Vons,
which gained 1 7/8 to 22 5/8, and Harley-Davidson, which rose
1 to 43.
   Golden Valley Microwave Foods dipped 1 to 32 3/4. Although
the company's first-quarter net income increased 61.7% from
the year-ago level, net excluding income from a joint venture
fell 16%.
   Fieldcrest Cannon declined 1 1/8 to 19 7/8. The company
reported that its first-quarter net dropped 89% from a year
ago.
   Lomas &amp; Nettleton Mortgage Investments retreated 1 to 4
5/8 after the company posted a loss for its fiscal third
quarter, ended in March, and said it would forgo a dividend
payment in August.
   General Motors Class E stock, representing GM's Electronic
Data Systems subsidiary, gained 5/8 to 29 3/8. This newspaper
previously reported in its "Heard on the Street" column that
money managers who like the GE unit's long-term prospects say
the stock's drop from its record high of 31 1/4 earlier this
month may be a buying opportunity.
   Kuhlman climbed 1 1/8 to 10 5/8. The company signed a
letter of intent to sell its blow-molded plastics business to
the U.S. unit of Belgium's Solvay for about $45 million in
cash, plus certain deferred payments.
   La Quinta Motor Inns rose 5/8 to 14 1/2. Industrial Equity
(Pacific), which owns about 13% of the company's common
shares, said it expects to hold discussions with La Quinta's
management about alternatives for maximizing shareholder
value.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index, which
closed at its lowest level of the year Monday, fell 1.06 to
343.89. Volume totaled 12,456,075 shares compared with
13,356,140 Monday. There were 220 issues advancing and 292
declining.
   Home Shopping Network rose 3/8 to 7 1/4 following a report
in Multichannel News, a cable-television industry trade
publication, that the company has hired First Boston to
investigate its possible sale.
   Thermo Instrument Systems, which said it expects to report
that net for the first quarter rose about 30% from a year
ago, gained 1/8 to 14 3/8.
   Separately, the company reached an agreement to buy
Finnigan Corp. for $20 a share; Finnigan rose 4 1/2 to 18 3/4
in over-the-counter trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Canadian Express Ltd.:
   Bid for Canadian Express
   Common Stock Is Deferred
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   T.HIL T.XE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hees International Bancorp, a merchant banking concern
controlled by Toronto's Bronfman family that has a 40% voting
stake in Canadian Express Ltd., said it deferred its offer to
buy as many as 40 million common shares of the Toronto-based
industrial holding company for 65 Canadian cents (56 U.S.
cents) each, pending further regulatory review.
   In Toronto Stock Exchange trading yesterday, Canadian
Express common closed at 52 Canadian cents, up one cent.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Ontario Securities Commission on Monday withdrew an
exemption from certain regulatory requirements that it had
granted to the Hees bid, which was made March 23. The
commission believed Hees should have referred in its
exemption application to a fairness opinion prepared by Wood
Gundy Inc. in May 1989, Hees said. Hees has asked Wood Gundy
to update that opinion for the commission.
   The proposed bid would raise Hees's voting stake in
Canadian Express to about 56%; the 40% includes a 7% in
common stock and 33% in preferred stock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Kuhlman Corp.:
   Solvay America Inc. Plans
   To Buy Plastics Operations
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KUH B.SOL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kuhlman Corp., Birmingham, Mich., said it entered into a
letter of intent to sell its plastics operations to Solvay
America Inc. for about $45 million, which includes cash,
certain deferred payments and assumption of related
liabilities.
   The announcement came at Kuhlman's annual meeting. Solvay
America is a unit of Solvay &amp; Cie S.A. of Belgium.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plastic operations being sold contributed about
one-quarter of Kuhlman's 1989 sales of $166 million, the
company said. These operations include plants in Michigan,
Pennsylvania and in Ontario, Canada, plus a technical
development complex in Michigan and interest in a Mexican
joint venture.
   "This development will enable Kuhlman to focus its efforts
on our profitable electrical tranformer business, which has
always been our principal business segment over Kuhlman's
entire 96-year history," said Donald O. Dulude, chairman,
president and chief executive officer.
   In 1989, Kuhlman earned $5.1 million, or 92 cents a share,
compared to a $8.1 million loss a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Melville Corp.:
   First-Quarter Net Fell 68%
   Largely Due to Late Easter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MES
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Melville Corp., Rye, N.Y., said first-quarter earnings
plunged 68%, largely because the Easter selling period falls
in the second quarter this year.
   Melville, a specialty retailer of apparel, footwear,
prescription drugs and other businesses, said net income fell
to $7.8 million, or four cents a share, from $24.2 million,
or 22 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 5.8% to $1.62
billion from $1.53 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Melville noted that the Palm Sunday and Easter week
selling periods occurred in the second quarter of 1990 but in
the first quarter of 1989.
   The company also noted that it issued preference stock
last June on which the quarterly dividend is $3.9 million;
the year earlier per-share figure didn't reflect a preference
stock dividend.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Melville
fell 50 cents $45.25.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- MCI Communications Corp.:
   American Express Awards
   Network Services Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MCIC AXP SLH
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   MCI Communications Corp. said it received a non-exclusive,
three-year contract from American Express Co., in which the
Washington-based telecommunications company will provide a
full range of network services to the New York-based travel
and financial services concern's business units world-wide.
   The contract, valued at $60 million and guaranteed for
three years, is the largest that American Express has awarded
MCI since the two companies began working together in the
early 1970s. The contract has an option for an additional two
years, increasing its value to a potential $100 million, said
Bert C. Roberts Jr., MCI president and chief operating
officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MCI will provide services to all five of American
Express's operating units: American Express Travel Related
Services Co., American Express Information Services Co.,
American Express Bank, Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. and IDS
Financial Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Uniroyal Says U.S. Backs
   Acquisition by Michelin
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   F.MIC
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   AKRON, Ohio (AP) -- The federal government has decided to
allow Michelin Group to proceed with its planned $1.5 billion
acquisition of Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Co., according to
Uniroyal.
   The tire maker said it was informed of the decision by the
Justice Department's antitrust division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Michelin, based in France, last September said it would
pay $690 million in cash and assume $810 million in debt to
acquire Uniroyal Goodrich, creating the world's largest tire
maker.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Fluor Corp.:
   Engineering Unit Receives
   Contracts From 3 Concerns
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FLR APIA SUN G.HFA B.PET
</CO>
<LP>
   Fluor Daniel Inc., the principal engineering and
construction unit of Fluor Corp., Irvine, Calif., said it was
awarded three contracts.
   The unit received a $23 million contract from Augusta
Newsprint Co. in Augusta, Ga., for procurement and
construction services for a paper recycling plant. Completion
of the 250-ton-a-day facility is scheduled for September
1990.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fluor Daniel also said it got a $24 million contract from
Cape Industries of Wilmington, N.C., to provide procurement
and construction management services for a dimethyl
manufacturing facility. Cape Industries is a joint venture
owned by a unit of Hoechst Celanese Corp. and American
Petrofina Inc.
   Fluor Daniel said it also got a contract from Sun Refining
&amp; Marketing, a unit of Sun Co. of Philadelphia, for
engineering services to develop a 300-gallon-a-minute sour
water stripper. Terms of the contract weren't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Presidio Oil Co.:
   Exchange Bid for Preferred
   Attracts 1,450,278 Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PRSB
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Presidio Oil Co., Denver, said that as of Monday,
1,450,278 shares of its 9 1/2% cumulative convertible
preferred stock had been tendered under terms of its
previously announced exchange offer.
   The independent oil and gas company said enough
shareholders had tendered their stock to trigger the
mandatory redemption of the remaining preferred shares
outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Presidio is offering to exchange 1.35 shares of its Class
A common stock for each of the 2,262,279 shares of preferred
stock outstanding. The offer expires tomorrow at 5 p.m. EST.
Those tendering their shares after that deadline will receive
1.25 shares of common for each share of preferred until May
24 or $5 a share in cash plus accrued dividends thereafter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Liz Claiborne Inc.:
   First-Period Net Rose 19%;
   Dividend Is Increased 25%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   LIZC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Continuing to post strong sales in women's sportswear, Liz
Claiborne Inc., New York, said first-quarter net income
jumped 19%, and directors boosted the quarterly dividend 25%
to 6.25 cents from five cents.
   The apparel maker said net rose to $52.6 million, or 60
cents a share, from $44.3 million, or 50 cents a share, a
year earlier. Sales rose 19% to $420.9 million from $352.9
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Liz Claiborne stock closed yesterday in
national-over-the-counter trading at $26.25, up 75 cents.
   The new dividend is payable June 1 to stock of record May
11.
   The company said that since December it has purchased
about 1,050,000 of its common shares for $25 million, as part
of a buy-back program.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   MICHAEL MILKEN PLEADED guilty to six felony counts, as
expected, capping a three-year probe of securities fraud and
other crimes by Drexel's former junk bond chief. Milken, once
the world's most-powerful financier, also agreed to pay $600
million in fines and restitution and to cooperate with the
continuing federal inquiry. He will be sentenced Oct. 1 and
faces up to 28 years in prison.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sears Roebuck's profit plunged 59% in the first quarter
due to "unsatisfactory" results in its core retail business
and hefty claims at its Allstate insurance unit. Sears stock
slid $1.125, to $35.375, a 52-week low.
   ---
   IBM will introduce several low-cost home computers this
summer, making a fresh assault on a market where it has done
poorly in the past.
   ---
   RJR Nabisco posted a $222 million loss for the first
quarter, reflecting huge debt costs. But the food and tobacco
giant showed strong gains in operating earnings and cash
flow.
   ---
   Western Union said it will file a recapitalization plan
involving an exchange offer of new secured debt and common
stock. The company is trying to avoid a Chapter 11 filing.
   ---
   Durable goods orders surged 6.7% in March, prompting some
analysts to suggest manufacturing may be rebounding. The
rise, reflecting a jump in transporation-equipment orders,
was the biggest in more than a year.
                                                                                                       

   Sales of U.S.-built cars and trucks plunged 17.7% in
mid-April, a poor performance in what is usually the heart of
the spring selling season.
   ---
   The film industry and other producers of copyrighted
material were dealt a blow by the Supreme Court, which ruled
the re-release of "Rear Window" violated copyright law.
   ---
   Quaker Oats decided to spin off its troubled Fisher-Price
toy business, allowing management to focus on problems in its
foods business.
   ---
   Salomon and Morgan Stanley had stronger quarterly results,
mainly due to bond-trading windfalls. But the securities
firms didn't escape the weakness in investment banking.
   ---
   Ames Department Stores stocks and bonds tumbled further
amid growing speculation the chain may seek Chapter 11
protection.
   ---
   The nation's mortgage lenders were accused by seven states
of violating federal law by requiring homeowners to place
more money than necessary in escrow accounts.
   ---
   Short interest fell 1.3% among major OTC stocks for the
month ended April 12, while borrowed shares in smaller issues
rose 28.3%.
   ---
   Five oil companies posted mixed quarterly results that
reflected one-time items and higher crude prices.
   ---
   Labor costs rose 1.6% in the first quarter, fueled by
higher Social Security taxes and other benefits. Costs rose
1.1% in the previous quarter.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 137,360,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2654.50, off 12.17; transportation 1134.07, off 7.29;
utilities 206.05, up 0.38.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3233.55, up
1.32.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.65, off 0.52;
spot index 135.54, up 0.20.
   Dollar: 158.93 yen, up 1.33; 1.6980 marks, off 0.0015.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUSH DEFERRED any sanctions against the Soviet Union over
Lithuania.
   Reflecting both continued hope for negotiations and U.S.
allies' unwillingness to support such curbs, the president
said that he currently won't take any steps that might
provoke a Kremlin backlash and scuttle chances for a
settlement of the standoff over Lithuania's independence bid.
The decision, which was announced after Bush met with
congressional leaders, followed days of debate within the
administration about whether to cancel talks with Moscow on
economic issues.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lithuania's president criticized the U.S. for failing to
side with Vilnius, as the Soviet KGB reinforced its border
guards in the Baltic republic.
   ---
   THE SHUTTLE BLASTED into orbit, carrying the Hubble Space
Telescope.
   Preparing to open a long-delayed era in the exploration of
the universe, Discovery streaked through a bank of clouds at
Cape Canaveral, Fla., and soared to a record-high 380-mile
orbit. The five astronauts tested the $2.5 billion telescope,
which is to be released today. The 12-ton device is expected
to enable astronomers to peer into space almost to the
beginning of time. The first pictures from the telescope are
expected to be relayed to Earth in about seven days.
   The launch of the Hubble telescope has been delayed since
1983 because of technical problems and the 1986 explosion of
the space shuttle Challenger.
   ---
   U.S. officials said that Polhill, who was freed Sunday by
pro-Iranian kidnappers in Beirut, likely was kept in the same
building with other Western hostages, and that intelligence
experts can pinpoint their location. In Jerusalem, officials
said the Israeli-backed South Lebanon Army was expected to
release about 10 Arab prisoners.
   ---
   The Supreme Court ruled that condemned murderers who waive
their right to appeal and say they wish to die may be
executed even if their cases aren't reviewed by any state
appellate court. The 7-2 decision is expected to allow
Arkansas to carry out the death sentence against R. Gene
Simmons, who killed 16 people in a 1987 rampage.
   ---
   East and West German leaders set July 2 as the date for
economic and social union of the two Germanys, a Bonn
spokesman said. The move will bring the divided nation a long
way toward full unification after more than four decades. The
issue of political union, or holding an election to form a
single government, remains to be arranged.
   ---
   Zaire's President Mobutu lifted a 20-year-old ban on
opposition parties and said a transitional government would
be established to rule until free elections could be held. A
date wasn't set. Thousands of people in Kinshasa celebrated
the announcement.
   ---
   Nicaragua prepared for today's inauguration of
President-elect Chamorro. She is facing division in the ranks
of her coalition over government posts, including the
possibility that some Sandinista officials may be retained.
   ---
   The Soviet Union and China signed an agreement in
principle to reduce military forces along the Sino-Soviet
border, scene of fighting in the 1960s. The move came during
Premier Li's visit to Moscow, which was marked by protests
over Beijing's crackdown on demonstrations last June.
   ---
   A judge in Yugoslavia acquitted 14 prominent ethnic
Albanians, including the former Communist Party leader of the
southern province of Kosovo, on charges of inciting
anti-government protests. He cited a lack of evidence. The
political trial had been widely criticized by human-rights
organizations.
   ---
   More than 4,000 Romanians occupied a Bucharest square,
demanding that the government of interim President Iliescu
resign. The protesters accused the government of harboring
former Communist officials from Ceausescu's regime. It was
the third consecutive day of anti-government rallies.
   ---
   Hundreds of police in Nepal deserted their posts or
refused to report for duty after six officers were killed
Monday by anti-monarchist mobs in Katmandu. A cabinet
minister said the army would be used to control violence in
the Himalayan nation, which is making a transition to
democracy.
   ---
   A firing squad in Sudan executed 28 military officers,
including three retired generals, after a court-martial on
charges of trying to overthrow Khartoum's ruling junta.
Loyalist forces foiled an attempted coup Monday, considered
the second phase of a plot originally crushed last month.
   ---
   The Lebanese Forces militia imposed a sea blockade on
Christian Gen. Aoun's forces in an effort to prevent delivery
of arms and ammunition. It was the latest move in a
three-month-old struggle for control of Lebanon's Christian
enclave.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hudson Foods Inc.:
   Fiscal 2nd-Period Net Fell
   47%; Turkey Losses Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HFI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hudson Foods Inc., Rogers, Ark., said net income for its
second quarter ended March 31 fell 47% to $2.1 million, or 15
cents a share, from $4 million, or 31 cents a share, a year
earlier, largely because of losses on turkey sales.
   Sales increased 2.7% to $146 million from $142.2 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Hudson's latest earnings represent a significant
improvement from its first-quarter results, largely because
of improvements in broiler prices.
   Other poultry producers, including Tyson Foods Inc. and
Pilgrim's Pride Corp., have posted sharply higher earnings
for the March 31 quarter, because profit margins on chickens
improved from a year earlier. But those companies aren't in
the turkey business, where retail prices haven't covered
costs of growing and processing the birds. Of Hudson's 740
million pounds of poultry production, about 100 million
pounds is from turkeys.
   Hudson's first-half profit fell 59% to $2.3 million, or 16
cents a share, from $5.6 million, or 43 cents a share, a year
earlier. Sales increased 6.2% to $295.4 million from $278.2
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Amdahl Corp.:
   First-Quarter Net Fell 34%;
   Competitive Pricing Is Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AMH
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Citing competitive pricing pressures, Amdahl Corp. said
first-quarter earnings slipped 34% to $29.9 million, or 27
cents a share, from $45.6 million, or 42 cents a share, a
year earlier.
   Revenue increased nearly 8% to $506.8 million from $470.3
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Sunnyvale, Calif., computer vendor said earnings were
lower because of competitive pricing pressures that
accelerated soon after the first quarter of 1989 and because
of a shift in product mix since that time. The company, among
other computer manufacturers and vendors, has been hurt by
pricing pressures in a sluggish market.
   Amdahl said in early 1989 the company's 5890 mainframes
constituted the majority of product shipments, but Amdahl is
now delivering more 5990 systems, which have higher average
selling prices but also higher manufacturing costs because of
more complex technology.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amoco Unit's Natural Gas Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AN OXY
</CO>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- An Amoco Corp. unit signed a 10-year natural
gas transportation agreement with Natural Gas Pipeline Co. of
America, a unit of Occidental Petroleum Corp.'s Midcon Corp.
subsidiary.
   Under the agreement, Amoco Energy Trading Corp. can ship
as much as 250 million cubic feet a day of natural gas from
various sources in the middle of the continent to the Texas
and Louisiana Gulf Coast, where it would have access to
almost all major interstate pipelines to markets in the Gulf
Coast, Southeast and Northeast.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Other terms weren't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Equitable Resources Inc.:
   Utility-Holding Firm Says
   First-Quarter Net Fell 10%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EQT
</CO>
<IN>
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Equitable Resources Inc. said it expects to report that
earnings for the first quarter fell 10%, but it anticipates
full-year earnings to grow.
   In a speech to New York security analysts, Donald I.
Moritz, president of the Pittsburgh utility-holding company,
attributed the decline to unusually warm weather. The company
earned $1.14 a share a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earnings for 1990 are expected to exceed year-ago net of
$2.24 a share. The company didn't elaborate.
   Mr. Moritz said he expects improvements for the year
because of increased production of natural gas, oil and
liquids; continued gains in sales of gas and services by the
company's interstate pipeline unit; and the strengthening
economy of its retail distribution area.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Equitable shares fell 50 cents to close at $35.125.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- McKesson Corp.:
   Company's 4th-Quarter Net
   Drops 28% to $18.3 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MCK
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG-BASED RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, PHARMACIES (RTD)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   McKesson Corp., blaming a decline in profit at a unit and
a $20 million pretax provision for customer accounts, said
fourth-quarter net dropped 28%, to $18.3 million, or 40 cents
a share, from $25.4 million, or 61 cents a share, a year
earlier.
   Revenue for the March 31 quarter rose 11% to $2.1 billion,
from $1.9 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The San Francisco-based drug distribution company said the
decision to increase reserves for customer accounts reflected
concern over the weakened financial condition of some of its
retail customers.
   The rise in reserves is reflected principally in the
results of McKesson's drug distribution business, with lesser
amounts charged against the service merchandising segment and
Armor All Products. Profit at the 83%-owned Armor car-care
products unit was disappointing, the company said, in part
because the company curtailed special year-end promotions.
   For the year, net slipped nearly 2%, to $98.7 million, or
$2.23 a share, from $100.6 million, or $2.38 a share, in
fiscal 1989. Revenue rose almost 11% to $7.8 billion from $7
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Unilever Scours the Globe for Better Ideas
   ---
   Executive Team Seeks
   New Markets, Food Products
   ----
   By Bob Hagerty
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   UN UL
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROTTERDAM, the Netherlands -- Back when Morris Tabaksblat
was supervising Unilever Group's drive into the U.S. perfume
business, his wife and daughter used to greet him expectantly
each night, hoping for a sample of the latest scent.
   Nowadays, Mr. Tabaksblat creates a little less excitement
when he comes home. As Unilever's top food executive, he is
more likely to be bearing a new kind of low-fat frozen dinner
than a vial of perfume.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If frozen dinners are less glamorous than some of
Unilever's recent diversifications, the Anglo-Dutch company
still has a lot more money riding on food than on perfume or
cosmetics. Indeed, Unilever's decision to bring Mr.
Tabaksblat back from the U.S. last autumn was a sign the
company wants to push harder for growth in its traditional
businesses.
   With annual food sales of about $17 billion, Unilever is
the world's third-largest food company, after Nestle S.A. and
Philip Morris Cos.' Kraft General Foods unit. Because of its
world leadership in margarine and such brands as Lipton tea,
Unilever derives half of its profit from food, the rest
coming mostly from detergent, toiletries and specialty
chemicals.
   But many of Unilever's mainstay food businesses -- from
margarine and tea to soup -- offer little opportunity for
growth in Western Europe, which accounts for nearly
two-thirds of the company's food sales. Only 20% of its food
sales come from the vast U.S. market, and a meager 15% from
what Unilever describes as "the rest of the world." So
Unilever is trying to broaden both its geographical spread
and its menu of products.
   "They need to find markets with some growth in them," says
Richard Workman, an analyst at the London brokerage firm
Hoare Govett.
   Mr. Tabaksblat is chairman of a new, three-man team
charged with doing just that. The three men will scour the
world for food ideas that can be transplanted from one market
to another, and improve coordination of Unilever's highly
fragmented food operation, with more than 100 factories in
Europe alone.
   The new powers given to Mr. Tabaksblat and his colleagues,
Niall FitzGerald and Alexander Kemner, are "designed to shake
things up," says David Lang of Henderson Crosthwaite, another
London brokerage firm. "They really mean this. I think they
feel they've underperformed."
   Not that Unilever's food business has been going stale.
The company has wrung out higher profit margins in Europe by
stressing "quality convenience" foods, such as the Du darfst
low-fat range in West Germany and the hot-selling Healthy
Options frozen dinners in Britain. It has also boosted
profits in the stagnant European margarine market by offering
a variety of low-fat spreads.
   In the U.S., the company has used such brands as Country
Crock, Promise and I Can't Believe It's Not Butter to raise
its share of the margarine market to nearly 40% from 10% in
the early 1980s. Coupled with cost cutting, these marketing
efforts have raised Unilever's operating profit margins on
food to 9% in 1989 from 6% five years before.
   But such gains are becoming more difficult in Unilever's
strongholds, a problem that underlies the need to branch out.
In the past, says Floris Maljers, co-chairman of Unilever,
the company concentrated too much on foods popular in
Northwestern Europe and the U.S. Now it must learn how to
please palates in Latin America, Africa and Asia, he says.
   Because Unilever thinks that Italian food travels well, it
is betting heavily on its line of Ragu pasta sauces, acquired
in 1987 as part of the $3.1 billion purchase of
Chesebrough-Pond's Inc. Ragu is by far the biggest U.S. brand
in its category, and Unilever is trying to repeat that
success in Europe, Mexico and Australia.
   Unilever also hopes to find far-flung markets for Boursin,
a French brand acquired last year to bolster its $400 million
a year cheese business.
   Transplants of this sort would help Unilever improve its
geographical balance. An obvious target is the U.S. market,
where Unilever is represented primarily by its successful
Thomas J. Lipton Inc. unit, a maker of tea, soup, side dishes
and such so-called novelty items as Fun Fruits candy. Jay H.
Freedman, an analyst at Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. in New York,
calls it a "hidden jewel" and says it "may be the best food
company in the U.S." But Unilever has barely touched big
parts of the U.S. market, including frozen foods, which are
the core of its European business. Because of such gaps, many
analysts expect Unilever's next big acquisition to be a U.S.
food company.
   Mr. Tabaksblat confirms that Unilever is shopping for U.S.
food makers, adding that he hopes the demise of
junk-bond-financed raiders means fewer bidders to drive up
the prices. Even so, he notes, Unilever is more likely to
continue building its U.S. food business through small and
midsize acquisitions rather than by making one big splash --
"unless something that fits us like a glove comes along."
   The "rest of the world" is another frontier for Unilever.
The company has long sold soap and detergent almost
everywhere, but it has barely scratched the food market
outside Europe and the U.S. Mr. Tabaksblat sees big
opportunities in Latin America and Asia. "The time now is
ripe for really giving a push there," he says.
   Thus, Unilever has been snapping up food companies in
Brazil, Chile and Mexico. It has a new ice cream plant in
Thailand, and it is building one in Turkey. In India,
Unilever is promoting a new brand of cookies, a product that
the company doesn't make elsewhere. A tea company, Unilever
is also experimenting with chicory-flavored instant coffee in
India.
   Unilever's sales in Japan remain tiny, but Mr. Tabaksblat
has high hopes there for a new frozen dish called Fish Oh]
Fingers. And with what some may consider audacity, Unilever
is even thinking about competing head-to-head with the
Japanese by making a new version of their traditional drink:
green tea.
   ---
                 Where Unilever Sells
                                                                                                       

     Sales by region in 1989; in billions of dollars
                                                                                                       

               Europe           $20.6     60%
               North America      7.4     22%
               Other              6.4     18%
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- International Lease Finance:
   Pacts Totaling $530 Million
   Reached With 11 Airlines
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   ILFC
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   International Lease Finance Corp., Beverly Hills, Calif.,
said it reached leasing agreements, valued at about $530
million, with 11 airlines. The time period of the leases,
which cover 15 planes, ranges from five to 10 years.
   The owner and lessor of commercial jet aircraft also said
it sold four aircraft and acted as agent in transferring
leases of two aircraft owned by two financial institutions.
The company said the $25 million it received in the
transactions will be reflected in the fiscal second quarter
ending May 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   International Lease Finance said it expects second-quarter
revenue to exceed the $87.1 million posted in the
year-earlier quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Kaufman &amp; Broad Home Corp.:
   California Builder Expects
   To Post Lower Net in Year
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KBH
</CO>
<IN>
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kaufman &amp; Broad Home Corp. expects to report that net
income for the fiscal year ending Nov. 30 was lower than the
previous year's $81.4 million, or $2.44 a share.
   Bruce Karatz, president and chief executive officer of the
Los Angeles-based single-family home builder, said after a
meeting in New York that he agreed with analysts' predictions
that earnings this year would be lower than those of a year
ago, but he declined to be more specific.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Karatz said there has been softening in the California
real estate market, which accounts for 60% of the firm's real
estate revenue. The remainder comes from France, where the
company also is involved in commercial real estate. Mr.
Karatz said the company is spending more on aggressive
marketing and on sales incentives.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Chapman to Be Nominated
   To Spot on Nomura Board
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS J.NOM
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Max C. Chapman Jr., co-chairman of the U.S.
unit of Nomura Securities Co., will be nominated to the board
of the parent company in a vote Wednesday in Tokyo, according
to sources close to Nomura.
   Before joining the 40-member board of the world's largest
investment bank, Mr. Chapman must be approved at another
board meeting in mid-May and by shareholders at the annual
meeting June 29.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If Mr. Chapman joins the board, as is expected, he will be
the first non-Japanese ever chosen to serve in that group.
The former president of Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. joined the U.S.
unit Oct. 2, after being passed over for the chief
executive's job at the broker-dealer's holding company, a
unit of General Electric Co.
   P.J. Johnson, a Nomura spokesman in New York, said that
Mr. Chapman is one of several candidates for the board and
that election shouldn't be taken for granted. Nevertheless, a
ranking board member in Tokyo said that Mr. Chapman "clearly
deserves membership on the board, and his hiring indicates
our commitment to expanding Nomura's global presence."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Reactions to Milken: Villain or Victim?
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Michael Milken, who made the junk-bond market into a
behemoth that fueled the 1980s takeover boom, became a symbol
of the decade and of the central role of investment bankers
in U.S. business. Now that he's pleaded guilty to six felony
counts, The Wall Street Journal has sought comment from
interested and disinterested parties both on his plea-bargain
agreement and on how history will view him.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Glenn A. Cox
   President, Phillips Petroleum Co.
                                                                                                       

   "We were caught up in what went on in the '80s and cast in
a negative light. Now as we focus sunlight on history, we see
that a lot of that activity occurred outside the law.
   There's some vindication of companies, including
ourselves, that were attempting to operate in a
straightforward manner when the people who were dealing with
us were dealing outside the law. It took a long time for all
that to come to light, but it helps recast the characters in
a different light. I'm not saying that everyone was operating
outside the law, but certainly a number of people identified
in the Phillips takeover activities have now been shown to
have operated outside the law.
   "The settlement, as I understand it, does probably shorten
the time frame that this thing could consume if allowed to
drag through the courts. Given the strong position the
government has, I'm glad to see the matter being resolved
today rather than dragged out another three, four, five
years." (Drexel provided financing for a run at Phillips
Petroleum by Carl Icahn.)
                                                                                                       

   Charles H. Keating Jr.
   Chairman, American Continental Corp.
                                                                                                       

   "You don't put Michelangelo or da Vinci in jail. To lose
that mind for even a day would be a tragedy."
   Instead, Mr. Keating suggests that the government could
thrust Mr. Milken into a central role in correcting the
savings-and-loan mess by making him chairman of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. "A guy like Milken could bring
intelligence and common sense, and more important than that,
an ability to marshal talent."
   "Mike was a tremendous factor in the development of
America over the past eight years. The Reagan administration
was very fortunate to have Mike funding American enterprise
during the time Reagan was in office. It caused the economy
to be extremely stable and evolving.
   "I think that if Mike Milken's talents were applied to
government relationships -- in the economic field -- in South
America, that someone like Mike could design and implement
solutions that would cause the poor and starving to have
opportunities and to economically advance." (American
Continental had major junk-bond dealings with Drexel.)
                                                                                                       

   Rabbi Arnold Jacob Wolf
   KAM Isaiah Israel Congregation, Chicago
                                                                                                       

   The plea bargain doesn't provide harsh enough punishment
for Mr. Milken. "He should be hung by his thumbs for years
and years and years. He's a very terrible person. He's a
symptom of the worst in America at the end of the century.
Washington is full of corruption, and so is Wall Street and
everywhere. That's a symptom of yuppie values.
   "If you mention Milken {to kids at the synagogue}, they
would say, `He just got caught.' I think it's possible to be
more honest, but not a lot of kids here think it is.
White-collar crime is wrong. It just looks less malevolent
than it is."
                                                                                                       

   Joel Smilow
   Chief Executive, Playtex Apparel Inc.
   and Playtex Family Products Corp.
                                                                                                       

   "It's an American tragedy. He was such a clever guy who
was so brilliant and did contribute so much. It was a tragedy
that he had to be involved with activities that so tarnished
his reputation and removed him from the scene. He didn't need
to do what he admitted to." (The Playtex companies were
clients of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., Mr. Milken's firm.)
                                                                                                       

   Gary Lynch
   Former enforcement director,
   Securities and Exchange Commission
                                                                                                       

   The plea bargain with the government and the SEC
settlement "achieve much of what would've been achieved in
litigation," said Mr. Lynch, a partner at the New York law
firm of Davis Polk &amp; Wardwell. "One of the benefits to the
government is that Milken at this point cooperates; it's
likely to lead to other SEC actions and perhaps other
criminal actions." (Mr. Lynch led prominent SEC
insider-trading cases against Drexel and Milken, Ivan Boesky
and Dennis Levine.)

   Stephen A. Wynn
   Chairman, Chief Executive,
   Golden Nugget Inc.
                                                                                                       

   "People will say he pleaded guilty to six counts so he's
guilty, but we're not dealing with a normal scenario here.
It's possible to squeeze people tight enough so that reality
gets distorted, and I'm not sure that's not what's happened.
   "He doesn't belong in prison. His energy should be used
somewhere else.
   "The agony of it is that he'll never know if he did the
right thing" in agreeing to the plea bargain. "He made the
decision for his brother and his {Lowell's} children, because
he didn't want Lowell to be prosecuted.
   "Michael Milken is far from over. He's a man of such
unusual gifts, and such an extraordinary fellow . . . he'll
put all his creative energy and brilliance to work in a way
that will be rewarding to him and the people he works with."
(Mr. Milken helped Golden Nugget become the first casino
operator to use junk bonds.)
                                                                                                       

   Alan Dershowitz
   Professor, Harvard Law School
                                                                                                       

   "The plea bargain is calculated to keep the public in the
dark about the real stakes. . . . We'll never know what he
did." But while the bargain may enable Mr. Milken to claim
that he didn't cut a deal to cooperate with prosecutors, "I
guarantee there will be a secret letter . . . sent to the
judge, outlining his secret cooperation. This deal smells of
that.
   "In a case of this public interest . . . the prosecutor
has an obligation to announce all the terms, implicit and
explicit," behind the plea bargain.
                                                                                                       

   Palomba Weingarten
   Chairman, Chief Executive,
   Pilgrim Group of Mutual Funds
                                                                                                       

   Mr. Milken will be remembered as "a man who created a
revolution that allowed small and medium-sized companies to
finance their growth." He was forced to plea bargain "because
otherwise he would have been blamed with things that had
nothing to do with him, including Drexel's going out of
business and people losing their jobs.
   "Mike Milken's problem is that he never developed a
constituency; he should have brought more people in the
investment community into the loop who could have better
explained what he was doing instead of shaking their fingers
at him." (Pilgrim's former parent, First Capital Holdings
Corp., was a client of Drexel.)
                                                                                                       

   Steven Sandler
   Legal Aid Society lawyer in New York
                                                                                                       

   "None of my clients who had six felonies would have a
chance of being out on bail." There's "clearly a different
standard. . . . The more you steal, and you're white, the
better you do. Even if {Mr. Milken} goes to jail, the jail he
goes to is a country club . . . and he'll have a few bucks
left when he gets out."
                                                                                                       

   Rep. John Dingell (D., Mich)
   Chairman, House Energy
   And Commerce Committee
                                                                                                       

   "The government's agreement with Mr. Milken raises more
questions than it answers."
   "The fines assessed amount to less than a year's
compensation for Mr. Milken, according to the most
conservative estimates. How does this affect the rights of
the companies and individuals who have been victimized in
these cases? Why is Justice not pursuing the others who were
indicted with Milken and his brother Lowell? Why is the
government not getting Mr. Milken's full cooperation in other
cases as the public interest demands?"
   Mr. Dingell also questioned why Mr. Milken wasn't charged
with any violations stemming from his junk-bond transactions.
He said his committee provided the Justice Department
information two years ago on them. He said he will give Mr.
Milken "every opportunity" to testify before his panel. He
also said the committee will review the settlement.
   "At this point, I can only wonder if the Mikado would be
satisfied that `the punishment fit the crime.'"
                                                                                                       

   Earl G. Graves
   Publisher, Black Enterprise magazine
                                                                                                       

   "Mike Milken and Drexel led the way in doing business with
black America. Because of them, big U.S. corporations are
increasing their involvement with black companies."
   Mr. Milken "may have lost sight of what else he was
supposed to do." But he has done some very positive things
not only in business but in education and in charitable
giving, Mr. Graves says.
   The plea bargain "is quite acceptable. If you can get him
to pay $600 million and still serve time, justice will have
been served."
                                                                                                       

   John Bogle
   Chairman, Vanguard Group
                                                                                                       

   "I think history will judge Mike Milken and the high-yield
bonds as one of the great financial excesses of the latter
part of the 20th century. I thought a trial would be a good
thing. That way, we would have more than just opinion to go
on in deciding whether this thing was one great fraud or just
some minor technical violations of the law. I tend to lean
toward it being more than just technical violations."
                                                                                                       

   Studs Terkel
   Radio Personality, Oral Historian
                                                                                                       

   "The whole thing depresses me with Milken and {Ivan}
Boesky. We live in a corrupt, amoral moment set by the powers
above -- Iran-contra, Oliver North." Mr. Milken "is par for
the course. There are a million Milkens, and he doesn't
deserve even a footnote in history. He's reflective of our
society at this time." But he probably won't be chastised in
the history books. "People have lost their sense of outrage."
                                                                                                       

   H. Ross Perot
   Financier
                                                                                                       

   "He {Mr. Milken} caused a great deal of destruction that
will continue on for a number of years. It's a tragic waste
of talent when business and society encourage this kind of
activity. The financial community and the media lionized him
and made it possible for this destruction to occur."
   Mr. Perot said he is uncomfortable with plea bargains but
he felt it was probably the best thing the government could
do under the circumstances. "When you have a revolving door
of prosecutors, you're placed in an inherently weakened
position. One of the lessons learned is that we really have
to come up with a way for government to go into the private
sector and hire world-class attorneys who have the background
and skills to handle a case like this and who will see the
case through to a conclusion."
   A lesson for young businessmen is: "Don't govern your life
by what's legal or illegal, govern it by what's right or
wrong."
                                                                                                       

   Kurt O. Hanson
   Lecturer, Business Ethics,
   Stanford Business School
                                                                                                       

   "Cases of this type almost require a plea-bargaining
process because of their complexity. . . . To me, such a plea
bargain outcome will only be just if it results in some
prison time. The stigma, particularly to a business person,
of doing time is among the most severe penalties.
   "In some ways, Milken should be the symbol of the 1980s
because he both contributed a lot and was so blind to
procedures of fairness and fair dealing in so many day-to-day
transactions. He also will be remembered as yet one more
individual who believed his own press releases and thought
that junk bonds were the solution to every company's and
investor's problems."
                                                                                                       

   Gail I. Hessol
   Managing Director,
   Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. ratings services
                                                                                                       

   "I'm not sure whether Milken was a villain or a victim.
The initial premise behind junk bonds was probably correct.
For fallen-angel companies, the world thought credit quality
was a lot worse than it was. Milken and others earned very
generous returns by investing in those bonds. It was a good
idea in the beginning.
   "Clearly it went too far. Aggressive takeovers led to
financial excess. The average credit rating declined from
single-A in the early 1980s to double-B now. There was a lot
of propaganda that ratings were irrelevant. That's over now.
   "I don't think we're laughing to see Milken gone. I have a
suspicion that in the end, he and Drexel were unfairly blamed
for a lot of problems."
                                                                                                       

   Joe Jamail
   Lawyer
                                                                                                       

   The $600 million "is a stiff fine. Justice will probably
be served by it. I have trouble, unless we're just punishing
for vengeance's sake, sending anybody off to the
penitentiary. They're punishing the SOB enough by taking his
money away. That's a hell of a fine.
   "Everyone wants to see the mighty fall. I'm afraid it
would be difficult for the man to receive a fair trial. A
jury wouldn't understand everything. Now I love juries, but I
don't know about this one. Arthur {Liman} did him a hell of a
job.
   "Those who made money will love {Mr. Milken}. Those who
didn't are going to hate him. Friends want you to be
successful, but not too successful."
                                                                                                       

   Jay Rockefeller (D., W.VA.)
   Senator
                                                                                                       

   The Milken and Boesky affairs are "a far worse cancer than
Iran-Contra. . . . I was curious about where he's going to
get" the $600 million in fines and restitution. "It makes a
fairly clear point to anyone who's listening carefully."
                                                                                                       

   Stan Marshall
   United Auto Workers vice president
   in charge of Chrysler Corp. department
                                                                                                       

   "These corporate takeovers {that Mr. Milken's junk bonds
financed} certainly haven't helped our work force -- as a
matter of fact, they've hurt. They've caused companies to
spend a lot of their money on lawyers and lining their
executives' pockets, instead of putting the money into
research and developing new products."
                                                                                                       

   Gordon S. Macklin
   Chairman, Hambrecht & Quist;
   Former President,
   National Association of Securities Dealers
                                                                                                       

   "I think history will be a mixed review. It's hard to take
someone who accomplished so much and paint him totally black.
On the other hand, it's hard to find high praise for someone
who is guilty by his own admission."
   "He's the only one who saw the whole set of cards. He's
very smart and very sophisticated. He wouldn't have done it
{plead guilty} if he didn't have good reason."
   "This whole era of flagrant securities violation has been
marked by very effective work by the SEC and the other
law-enforcement agencies. On the other hand, it was also
marked by some extravagances . . . I think they {law
enforcers} have restored much of their credibility by
bringing this case to a conclusion."
                                                                                                       

   Frank Rizzo
   Former Philadelphia Mayor;
   Radio Talk-Show Host
                                                                                                       

   "I hope he gets a lot of time. He should do a substantial
amount of time {in jail}. If some poor guy robbed a bank he
would get 10 or 20 years. But if you're very rich, you can
hire the best lawyers and make deals.
   "He'll be viewed as a crook."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   And Let's Not Forget the Genius
   Who Invented Remote Control
   ----
   By Carrie Dolan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   If Utahans have their way, Philo T. Farnsworth will become
a household name.
   Each state can place statues of two local heroes in the
U.S. Capitol. When a class of Utah fifth-graders learned
their state had only one -- of Mormon leader Brigham Young --
they sought a candidate for the other place of honor. Locals
overwhelmingly chose Mr. Farnsworth, an inventor who died in
1971 (one of Brigham Young's wives was runner-up).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Utahans consider Mr. Farnsworth the "father of
television," the governor's spokeswoman says. "He's finally
getting his just recognition. In his lifetime, he wasn't
really recognized." A statue of Mr. Farnsworth, holding the
image-dissector tube he invented, will be unveiled May 2 in
Washington.
   Utahans claim RCA Corp., which helped make TV a success,
stole much of the glory for inventing it. Vladimir Zworykin,
an RCA employee, "was working on the concept at the same
time," says Bruce Barnson, chairman of the Farnsworth statue
committee. "He went to Philo's lab, and Philo told him the
whole thing."
   Legal battles ensued until the 1930s, when RCA (now a unit
of General Electric Co.) paid to cross license Mr.
Farnsworth's patents, the first time the company had ever
licensed a patent. "The chief patent lawyer supposedly cried
when RCA had to purchase the license," says Elliot Sivowitch,
of the Smithsonian Institution's division of electricity and
physics.
   Unfortunately, Mr. Farnsworth's patents "were too early,"
says his 82-year-old widow, Elma (her husband's first
TV-picture transmission was of her in 1929). World War II
sidelined the infant industry, and "his patents started to
expire a few years after commercial television took off."
Worse, she claims, "historians went to RCA and got history
from their PR people. Phil was largely ignored."
   "Philo T. Farnsworth is a rather controversial issue,"
concedes William Boss, a retired RCA executive and consultant
to the Electronic Industries Association. "A lot of people
were working a long time" creating television.
   Though "Farnsworth did crucial experimental work," it's
tough to name one inventor of a complex technology, says Mr.
Sivowitch. "Generally speaking, when someone says they're
first, if you look hard enough, you'll find someone who's
more first." The British, for instance, cite John Logie Baird
as TV's inventor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Tambrands Inc.:
   First-Period Net Rose 22%;
   Strong Shipments Are Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TMB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tambrands Inc., Lake Success, N.Y., reported that net
income rose 22% for the first quarter, fueled by strong
shipments of tampons in the U.S.
   The company earned $22.1 million, or $1.02 a share,
compared with $18 million, or 81 cents a share, in the
year-earlier quarter. Revenue increased 23% to $159.3 million
from $129.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said the unexpected steep increase in revenue was
magnified by weak revenue last year. A 9% decline in research
and development expenditures, coupled with a 13% drop in
general and administrative costs, helped fuel earnings
growth.
   The percentage increase in per-share earnings exceeded the
percentage increase in net income because Tambrands has
repurchased its own shares since the first quarter of last
year.
   In New York Stock exchange composite trading, Tambrands
closed at $76.125 a share, down 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hunt for Black Gold
   At Green Canyon
   Ends in Red Ink
   ---
   `Disappointing' Production
   Blamed as Placid Oil Co.
   Abandons Drilling Project
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   ENS
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Blaming "disappointing" production results, the
Hunt brothers' Placid Oil Co. said it was abandoning the
risky Green Canyon drilling project that the fallen oil
tycoons gambled would be their return ticket to prosperity.
   Located in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico, the
controversial $340 million project involved using an
experimental floating rig to drill to unprecedented depths in
search of what brothers Nelson Bunker Hunt, William Herbert
Hunt and Lamar Hunt contended was a 70-million barrel oil
reserve.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to a report in the Oil and Gas Journal, one of
Placid's wells at Green Canyon -- drilled in 2,243 feet of
water -- set a world water depth record for production. But
equipment problems plagued the project from the start and the
gusher anticipated by the high-rolling Hunts never appeared.
   While a major blow to the Hunts' efforts to rebuild at
least part of their oil empire, Placid officials said Green
Canyon's failure did not mark the end of the company's
exploration efforts. "We're involved in looking for oil in a
lot of other places," said P.G. Clark, Placid's vice
president of operations. "We're just not going in deep
water."
   Mr. Clark declined to discuss details regarding the Green
Canyon project's production problems. But last November
Dallas-based Enserch Corp., which owned a 25% working
interest in the project, reported that the only two producing
wells at the site were yielding a meager 200 barrels of oil
and eight million cubic feet of gas per day.
   "It apparently didn't get any better," said
Prudential-Bache analyst Tom Driscoll.
   "I think you could reuse a whole lot of the equipment at
another location so long as you actually did find
commercially producable quantities," said Tom Marsh, drilling
editor for Houston-based Offshore Data Services Inc.
   Mr. Marsh noted, however, that the hugely expensive Green
Canyon project was conceived in the days when oil was selling
for $30 a barrel.
   Green Canyon's failure marks the end of another
controversial chapter in the brothers' decade-long financial
decline and comes just one month after the Hunts lost their
remaining interest in Penrod Drilling Co. and its prized
fleet of off-shore drilling rigs.
   Like Placid, the family's exploration arm, Penrod had been
owned by the trust estates of Hunt brothers.
   Despite widespread industry skepticism about its
prospects, the Hunts wagered that the Green Canyon project
would help them dig out from under the $2 billion mountain of
debt resulting from their disasterous speculation in the
1979-80 silver market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Enserch Corp.:
   Energy Concern to Record
   $9 Million Gain From Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ENS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Enserch Corp. said it will record a gain of $9 million, or
14 cents a share, on the public offering of the company's
discontinued oil-fields services unit.
   Enserch, a Dallas energy concern, said Pool Energy
Services completed its offering of 11.5 million common
shares, including one million from the underwriters
overallotment option, at $10.25 a share. Enserch bought an
additional two million shares in a private sale at the same
price. The company didn't specify when it would take the
gain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Enserch will distribute the two million Pool Energy shares
on a pro-rata basis to its shareholders as a special dividend
later this year. Enserch said net proceeds from the sale,
received in exchange for oil-field assets, are being used to
reduce certain obligations, primarily leases and commerical
paper.
   Separately, Enserch reported first-quarter net income rose
to $44.7 million, or 64 cents a share, from $35.8 million, or
55 cents a share, a year earlier. The latest period included
a $22 million gain from a stock sale. Revenue increased to
$771 million from a restated $752.1 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- CMS Energy Corp.:
   An Infusion of $17 Million
   Into Four Projects Planned
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMS OEN
</CO>
<LP>
   CMS Energy Corp. said it has agreed to inject an
additional $17 million into four projects owned by its
partnership with Oxford Energy Co., which builds power plants
that burn waste tires.
   In return for its investment, CMS will receive 40% of
Oxford Energy's interest in the four energy projects. One of
the plants is completed, another is under construction, while
two others have not yet begun construction. CMS will make its
contribution over about 20 months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CMS already owns 49% of Oxford's stock. A CMS spokesman
said the investment will not affect the level of CMS's Oxford
stock holdings.
   CMS, based in Dearborn, Mich., also said it will provide
as much as $7.5 million as an equity contribution to one of
the tires-to-energy projects in 1991, when that project is
scheduled to be completed. Oxford stock closed at $4.25 a
share, unchanged, in American Stock Exchange composite
trading. CMS stock closed yesterday at $29, down 12.5 cents,
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hallmark Cards Inc.:
   Buy-Back Offer Completed
   For Univision Junk Bonds
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hallmark Cards Inc. said it completed an offer to buy back
at a discount junk bonds issued by its Univision Inc. unit.
   Hallmark, a closely held Kansas City, Mo., greeting-card
concern, said it accepted for payment $161.8 million, or 98%,
of the unit's senior subordinated discount notes due 1998.
Also, it accepted for payment $89.9 million, or 86%, of the
unit's subordinated debentures due 1999. The purchase totaled
$251.7 million of junk bonds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As reported earlier this month, holders of a majority of
$270 million of Univision junk bonds had voted to accept a
sweetened tender offer from Hallmark.
   Hallmark launched the tender offer in February after
Univision, the nation's largest Spanish-language broadcast
concern, missed interest payments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Tucson Electric Power Co.:
   Quarterly Loss Is Posted;
   Interest Costs Are Blamed
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TEP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tucson Electric Power Co. said it had a loss of $14.8
million, or 68 cents a share, in the first quarter, compared
with net income of $20.4 million, or 75 cents a share, a year
earlier. Revenue fell to $120.9 million from $153.4 million.
   The Tucson, Ariz., utility attributed much of the setback
to an increase in interest expense, which totaled $30.6
million for the quarter. The company is negotiating a new
$350 million master credit agreement, which it now says it
hopes to have in place by mid-summer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The credit agreement, which the company earlier said it
hoped to arrange by April 30, would provide an additional $90
million in borrowing capacity.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Tucson's
stock closed at $11.25, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Tandon Improves,
   Drops Its Contract
   With Bear Stearns
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   TCOR
</CO>
<LP>
   MOORPARK, Calif. -- Tandon Corp., which hired Bear,
Stearns &amp; Co. six months ago to explore financial
alternatives for the company, said it didn't renew its
contract with Bear, Stearns because the computer maker's
position has strengthened.
   Tandon's agreement with Bear Stearns, entered into last
September, expired on March 31. The decision not to renew,
the company said, was based primarily upon improved operating
results and a corresponding strengthened balance sheet,
following a company-wide organizational restructuring during
the past year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "While we anticipate continuing discussions with the
investment banking community, our position today is
significantly different than it was last September when we
engaged Bear Stearns to identify alternatives," the company
said.
   At that time, the company had lost $44.9 million in four
successive quarters and expressed concern about its liquidity
position.
   For the first quarter, the company had net income of $7
million, or 11 cents a share, against a loss of $9.9 million,
or 16 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue increased about
13% to $105.1 million from $92.7 million.
   Tandon said its working capital increased by $23.8 million
from June 30, 1989, to March 31, 1990, while at the same time
the company reduced its inventories to $94.4 million, from
$120.5 million. During the same nine-month period, the
company said its combined accounts and notes payable were
reduced to $45.6 million, from $75.8 million, and that its
cash position increased to $32.1 million, from $9.7 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Harsco Corp.:
   Investor Group's Proposal
   For Restructuring Rejected
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   HSC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Harsco Corp. rejected a proposal from an investor group to
restructure the company, but left open the possibility for
consideration of other proposals.
   Earlier this month, HC Partners of Washington, D.C., an
investor group led by former Secretary of Defense Frank
Carlucci and the Mellon family, proposed that Harsco sell off
its defense operations and pay a special cash dividend of $15
a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The group offered to invest $100 million and possibly as
much as $200 million in the Camp Hill, Pa., construction,
defense and industrial concern as part of the proposed
restructing. The additional $100 million, if provided, would
have been used to accelerate Harsco's world-wide research,
development and marketing efforts, the group said.
   In a letter to Mr. Carlucci, M. W. Gambill, Harsco's chief
executive officer and president, said the proposal, which was
presented in a letter, was not in the best interest of the
company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Image Bank Inc.:
   Shares Plunge $2.75, Losing
   One-Third of Their Value
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TIBI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Image Bank Inc.'s shares lost a third of their value as
the New York stock-photography company restated fiscal
first-quarter per-share earnings downward to seven cents from
12 cents.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Image Bank
fell $2.75 to $5.25.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Image Bank, which licenses reproductive rights for
photographs, illustrations and cinematography, said the
restatement reflects the addition of $365,069 to the cost of
sales at a recently acquired U.K. subsidiary, Book People
Ltd. The costs stemmed from a failure to account for certain
purchase invoices for books that were part of the unit's
inventory, Image Bank said.
   Revised net income for the first quarter ended Dec. 31 is
$261,079 compared with the $430,641 originally reported. For
the year-earlier fiscal first quarter, Image Bank reported
net income of $205,896, or nine cents a share. Shares
outstanding in the periods were 3.7 million and 2.2 million,
respectively.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Co.:
   Utility Firm Posts Increase
   Of 56% in 1st-Quarter Net
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SDO
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Co. said first-quarter net income
jumped 56%, in part because year-earlier earnings were
depressed by a special charge.
   The utility holding company reported net before the
payment of preferred dividends of $56.1 million, or 95 cents
a share, compared with $35.9 million, or 59 cents a share, a
year earlier. Revenue rose 8% to $539.5 million from $499.4
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the 1989 first quarter, California's Public Utilities
Commission disallowed the company $25 million of costs to
import power over the Southwest Powerlink.
   Thomas A. Page, chairman, president and chief executive
officer, also attributed the earnings improvement to "reduced
utility operating and maintenance costs and improved earnings
of our subsidiaries."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Chips &amp; Technologies Inc.:
   Quarterly Profit Falls 47%
   On a Revenue Rise of 16%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CHPS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Chips &amp; Technologies Inc., citing a sluggish market and a
shortage of chips, said net income for the fiscal third
quarter plunged 47% to $5 million, or 32 cents a share, from
$9.4 million, or 63 cents a share.
   Revenue in the quarter ended March 31 climbed 16% to $66.4
million from $57.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The drop in earnings wasn't unexpected. The San Jose,
Calif., microchip manufacturer said several weeks ago that
its performance in the third quarter would be significantly
below that of its second quarter ended Dec. 31, when the
company reported revenue of $74.4 million and net income of
$8.9 million, or 57 cents ashare.
   The company's stock fell 62.5 cents yesterday in national
over-the-counter trading to close at $16.75 a share.
   The company said its more mature products continued to be
affected by pricing pressures in the sluggish computer
industry. The price declines on certain products were
exacerbated by a delay in the introduction of several
new-generation products, the company added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Stabilize Following Seven-Day Slide
   But Futures Prices Fall for 13th Consecutive Day
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   ADD RJR FNM FRE SLH AXP IBM EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Following a seven-day losing streak, bond
prices were little changed yesterday. But in the futures
market, the rout continued with prices of bond futures
falling for the 13th consecutive trading session.
   Traders termed yesterday's bond market as dizzy because
prices meandered for much of the day. In early trading,
Treasury bonds posted modest declines in reaction to two key
economic indicators: the Commerce Department's durable goods
report and the Labor Department's employment cost index.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Orders for durable goods, such as factory equipment, cars,
appliances and other items intended to last at least three
years, jumped 6.7% in March following a 2.3% advance in
February. The report provided fresh evidence that some
sectors of the manufacturing industry are rebounding.
   While that may be good for the economy, the bond market
reacts badly to such news because investors fear that a
pickup in economic activity could lead to higher inflation
and interest rates, two trends that reduce the value and
appeal of fixed-income securities. In fact, a
sharper-than-expected increase in the employment cost report
demonstrated that inflation is accelerating.
   The employment cost index for all civilian workers rose
5.5% for the 12 months ended in March, up from a 5% rise in
1989.
   Prices of the benchmark 30-year bond fell more than 1/4
point, or $2.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount, after
the reports were released.
   But when yields on the benchmark bond hit 9%, an important
psychological level, Wall Street dealers and professional
traders rushed into the market to buy cheap securities to
cover short-sale positions. In a short sale, dealers and
professional traders sell borrowed securities and later seek
to make a profit by replacing what was borrowed with cheaper
securities. Essentially, these dealers are betting that
prices will fall.
   "It was a crazy day," said Kevin Flanagan, money market
economist at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. "Everybody was
expecting the market to sell off sharply after the reports
and stay that way," he said.
   The bond market rally fizzled later in the day due to lack
of interest by retail investors. "There was just no follow
through by investors and with no retail support, the market
could not sustain the gains," said Mr. Flanagan.
   In the futures market, traders said the 13-day decline was
the longest losing streak in recent memory. And some
technicians say the selling spree isn't over yet.
   "The trend is still toward higher interest rates," said
Roger Froehlich, president of Technical Dimensions, Mount
Kisco, N.Y.
   John Slosberg, a senior analyst at Technical Data Global
Markets Group, warned clients yesterday that the futures
market remains "vulnerable to the downside."
   Bond futures have fallen more than four points since the
first week in April and now are at the lowest levels in
nearly a year. June bond futures settled yesterday at a price
of 89 4/32, down 1/8 point. Mr. Slosberg said if June bond
futures contract prices break below 88 26/32, which
corresponds to a 9% yield on the government's benchmark
30-year bond, "you will see frenzied selling," he said.
                                                                                                       

   Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   News that former Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. junk-bond
chief Michael Milken pleaded guilty to six felony counts had
little effect on the junk-bond market.
   Mr. Milken is widely credited with creating the market a
decade ago, but his presence has diminished considerably
during the last two years.
   Most junk bonds ended unchanged yesterday. However, there
were some notable exceptions.
   Among the biggest losers was Ames Department Stores Inc.
The retailer's junk bonds plunged on reports that it hired
the New York law firm of Skadden Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom
to prepare papers for a possible Chapter 11 bankruptcy
filing. A Skadden Arps spokesman confirmed that it had been
retained by Ames "to explore various restructuring
alternatives." But the spokesman declined to say specifically
if Ames was planning to file for bankruptcy-law protection.
   Ames 13% senior subordinated reset notes fell five points
in early trading, but rebounded by the afternoon to close one
point lower at 21. The company's 7 1/2% subordinated
convertible debentures fell three points to about $11.25.
   Among winners: The junk bonds of RJR Nabisco Inc. advanced
despite news that the food and tobacco giant reported a loss
of $222 million for the first quarter.
   Analysts said some investors ignored the net loss and
instead focused on operating income, which climbed to $602
million from $402 million in the first quarter a year ago.
   "I think at minimum the market should be very pleased with
the numbers," said Dirk Van Doren, a high-yield analyst at
McCarthy Crisanti &amp; Maffei Inc.
   RJR's pay-in-kind bonds, which had been up more than a
point, finished as much as 3/4 point higher. The 13.71%
convertible pay-in-kind debentures, due in 2009, rose 5/8 to
81 5/8 on the New York Stock Exchange. The 13.71%
exchangeable pay-in-kind debentures, maturing in 2007, ended
3/4 point higher at 68 1/8.
   Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Co.'s junk bonds jumped four points
on news that the Justice Department's antitrust division will
allow Michelin Group's proposed acquisition of Uniroyal to go
forward as scheduled.
   Uniroyal's 14 1/2% subordinated debentures, maturing in
2000, finished four points higher at 109.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices ended narrowly mixed after a day of seesaw
trading activity. The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price
of 95 5/32, slightly higher than 95 4/32 on Monday. The yield
was unchanged yield 8.96%.
   The latest 10-year notes were slightly higher at 96 27/32
to yield 8.97% compared with 96 25/32 to yield 8.98%.
   Short-term rates moved lower yesterday. The discount rate
on three-month Treasury bills was 7.76% for a bond-equivalent
yield of 8.00%, while the rate on six-month bills was 7.90%
for a bond equivalent yield of 8.32%.
   On Monday, the average discount rate of Treasury bills at
the government's auction was 7.78% for a bond equivalent
yield of 8.05%, while the average auction rate for six-month
bills was 7.91% for a bond equivalent yield of 8.35%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Helped by demand for collateral for new derivative issues,
mortgage securities fell 1/32 to 2/32 but held up better than
the intermediate Treasury market.
   The Federal National Mortgage Association announced two
real estate mortgage investment conduit issues, or Remics,
totaling $550 million, while the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corp. offered a $300 million Remic.
   With dealers seeking collateral for these deals, Freddie
Mac and Fannie Mae securities fared well for the second
straight session.
   The benchmark Freddie Mac 9 1/2% issue eased only 1/32 at
96 6/32, while the Fannie Mae 9 1/2% issue dropped 1/32 to 96
23/32.
   In the Government National Mortgage Association market,
the 9% Ginnie Mae issue ended at 93 27/32, down 2/32; the 9
1/2% issue at 96 13/32, down 2/32; the 10% issue at 98 31/32,
down 2/32; and the 11% issue at 103 1/4, also down 2/32.
   In the Remic market, Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
underwrote a $300 million Fannie Mae deal backed by Fannie
Mae's 10% issue, Shearson Lehman Hutton sold a $250 million
Fannie Mae issue backed by 15-year 9 1/2% securities, and
Morgan Stanley underwrote the $300 million Freddie Mac issue,
which is backed by 9% securities.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Issues
                                                                                                       

   Tax-exempt issues were 1/4 to 3/8 point lower in listless
late trading.
   "I think it's a general lack of enthusiasm, a general lack
of optimism. The market's suffering from some kind of
malaise," one municipal trader said.
   Traders cited a lack of interest among investors in buying
bonds. Some participants may be waiting for municipals to
bottom out before they begin bargain hunting, a few traders
said.
   In one of the largest deals of the session, a Shearson
Lehman Hutton Inc. group set the preliminary pricing for a
$283 million issue of Transmission Agency of Northern
California revenue bonds. The bonds were tentatively priced
to yield from 6.40% in 1994 to 7.35% in 2024.
   In new-issue activity, a Smith Barney Harris Upham &amp; Co.
group repriced an issue of $82 million Ohio Water Development
Authority revenue bonds. The bonds are now priced to yield
from 6.10% in 1991 to 7.35% in 2009 and 2016.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The rebound of the dollar against the yen put a damper on
the Japanese government bond market yesterday.
   The dollar ended at 158.15 yen, up from 157.55 yen in
Tokyo late Monday and 157.55 yen at the Tokyo close Monday.
In response, Japanese government bond prices fell 0.26 points
to 85.96 to yield 7.375%.
   British government bonds ended little changed while West
German bonds were modestly lower. Meanwhile, the Canadian
subsidiary of International Business Machines Corp. tapped
the Eurobond market yesterday. IBM Canada Ltd. issued 150
million Canadian dollars (US$129 million) of five-year notes
through lead manager Credit Suisse First Boston. The coupon
rate was set at 13 1/2%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Whirlpool Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WHR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WHIRLPOOL Corp. (Benton Harbor, Mich.) -- Paul G. Stern,
vice chairman, president and chief executive officer of the
Northern Telecom Ltd. unit of BCE Inc., and Miles L. Marsh,
president and chief operating officer of Whitman Corp., were
named directors of this maker of major home appliances,
succeeding board members who didn't stand for re-election.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Correction
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   In yesterday's Business World column, an unfair trading
allegation against Japan was incorrectly attributed to the
Securities Industry Association. The petitioner is the
Semiconductor Industry Association.
   (See: "Business World: AST Courts a Market in Tokyo and a
Break From Washington" -- WSJ April 24, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CD Yields Rose
   At Banks, Brokers
   In Latest Week
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Yields on certificates of deposit at major banks and
brokerage firms rose across the board -- pushing past the 9%
level for a five-year CD at one major bank.
   The increases in the week ended yesterday coincided with a
sharp rise in market interest rates that has pushed yields on
longer-term Treasury securities up to nearly 9%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The biggest increases in CD yields were among
small-denomination CDs sold by leading brokerage firms. The
average yield on one-year broker-sold CDs rose to 8.50% from
8.19%, while the five-year-CD average rose to 8.85% from
8.57%, according to figures compiled by Banxquote Money
Markets, a New York information service.
   Average yields for most large-denomination CDs, which
typically require deposits of $90,000 or more, were also up
significantly. The greatest gains were in the longer-term
maturities. Average yields on two-year jumbo CDs were 8.43%,
while five-year maturities were 8.54%. In New York, Chase
Manhattan Bank raised the yield on its five-year CD to 9.17%,
one of the highest in the country.
   "Nine percent is a psychological resistance level," said
Banxquote Chairman Norberto Mehl. "Once one of the leading
banks has crossed this level, other banks are expected to
follow."
   Mr. Mehl said that some of the leading brokers, such as
Shearson Lehman Hutton and Dean Witter Reynolds, are also
offering CDs that are approaching the 9% level.
   Meanwhile, average yields on small-denomination CDs at 18
banks surveyed by Banxquote rose only slightly. The average
yield on a one-year consumer CD rose to 8.02% from 7.96%,
while five-year consumer CDs offered 8.20%, up from 8.16%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monsanto Profit Fell
   13% in First Quarter;
   Chemical Lines Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   MTC
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST.LOUIS -- Monsanto Co. said first-quarter profit fell
13% from a year-ago, to $194 million, or $2.95 a share.
   The report had been expected since last month, when the
company said it expected lower corporate profit because of
profit declines in its core chemical businesses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A year earlier, Monsanto earned $222 million, or $3.24 a
share. Sales in the latest quarter were $2.29 billion, up 1%,
from $2.27 billion a year ago.
   In the crop chemicals unit, pretax profit fell to $151
million, from the record $184 million of last year. The
company said many shipments of its Lasso herbicide were
delayed until the second quarter because of changes in
farmers' purchasing patterns. In addition, the company said,
the sales mix of its Roundup herbicides tilted toward the
lower-priced formulations during the latest quarter.
   Analysts have said that, because the timing of
crop-chemical purchases varies, results for the first six
months are a better indicator of how the business is doing
than are results for the first quarter. Richard Mahoney,
Monsanto's chairman and chief executive officer, said the
company still expects profit from the crop-chemicals business
in 1990 to exceed last year's, given "reasonable weather."
   In the other chief chemicals unit, whose products include
plastic for shatterproof windshields, pretax profit dropped
to $119 million, from $130 million. Monsanto attributed the
decline to lower production in the auto industry.
   The other profit decline within Monsanto came in its
NutraSweet Co. unit, which had pretax profit of $67 million,
down from a record $74 million a year ago. In the G.D. Searle
&amp; Co. unit, pretax profit was $4 million, against a loss of
$8 million a year ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dow Chemical Profit
   Fell 38% in Quarter,
   Hurt by Lower Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   DOW
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIDLAND, Mich. -- Dow Chemical Co. said first-quarter
earnings dropped 38% with the combined effects of higher
feedstock costs and lower commodity prices.
   The chemical and specialty-product company said net income
fell to $462 million, or $1.71 a share, from $743 million, or
$2.72 a share, a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales increased 9.3% to $4.9 billion from $4.49 billion.
   Results were slightly below the expected range of $1.75 to
$1.90 a share. But several analysts said they weren't
downgrading estimates for the year, which ranged from $6.25
to $7.40, depending on economic forecasts.
   The company said results were "good" and represented a
return to "more normal" earnings levels, following a record
high in the 1989 first quarter. Dow Chemical shares closed at
$61, down 50 cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading yesterday.
   The company said sales volume increased 18%, but prices
fell nearly 8% and hydrocarbon and energy costs were up
nearly 6%. Operating profit dropped 43% for chemicals and
performance products, 42% for plastics and 89% for
hydrocarbons and energy. Negative effects of commodity
chemicals were partly offset by consumer, agriculture and
pharmaceutical products, where sales rose 62% and operating
profit doubled.
   "Clearly, our diversification strategy is paying off,"
said Frank Popoff, president and chief executive officer.
   Mr. Popoff said results for 1990 will be "strong," but
below 1989 net of $2.49 billion, or $9.20 a share. The
second-quarter outlook is improving with declining costs and
rising prices for several high-volume products, he says. But
analyst Theodore S. Semegran of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
warned that rising petrochemical capacity through 1992 would
continue to shrink margins and hold down earnings this year
and in 1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Farah Names Wyman
   Chairman, Succeeding
   William F. Farah
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   FRA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   EL PASO, Texas -- Farah Inc. said Thomas G. Wyman, a
recently elected company director, was named chairman,
succeeding William F. Farah, who will remain a board member.
   Mr. Wyman, 66 years old, formerly was chairman of L.G.
Balfour Inc. of Attleboro, Mass., and owns a 5% stake in
Farah, a clothing manufacturer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It wasn't clear immediately whether Mr. Wyman was named
over Mr. Farah's objections. Following Mr. Wyman's election,
Mr. Farah, 70, wrote letters to the company's board members,
urging them to either replace current management or resign.
Board members apparently have refused to follow that request.
Mr. Wyman said that Mr. Farah, who has a 17% stake in the
company, has been unhappy with the direction of the company.
   Mr. Wyman wouldn't elaborate, referring further questions
to Mr. Farah, who couldn't be reached for comment.
   Farah, which has been reporting declining sales and
losses, says it has been taking steps to improve its
inventories, deliveries and manufacturing process. In the
first quarter ended Jan. 26, the company reported a loss of
$589,000, narrower than its year-earlier first-quarter loss
of $1.4 million.
   Last year, the company discussed the sale of the company
and then agreed to sell its Generra sportswear unit to a
management-led group. In midyear, Mr. Farah resigned as
president and chief executive officer and was succeeded by
Richard C. Allender. Mr. Farah still has more than two years
remaining on a three-year consulting agreement that pays him
$365,000 a year and provides him with an office.
   Mr. Wyman said he plans to support Mr. Allender's current
strategy. "I think the company should follow the present
goals which have been in place for too short a period of
time," he said. "Mr. Allender is making every effort to
improve the company."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Two Big Japanese Banks
   Face Review by Moody's
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   J.FUJ J.DKB
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it will
review for possible downgrades its triple-A ratings on
long-term deposits and senior debt of Fuji Bank Ltd. and
Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd., and senior debt of their units.
   But the rating concern said downgrades, if any, aren't
likely to be substantial for either bank; their short-term
prime-1 ratings aren't affected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Fuji remains a formidable and well-managed bank," Moody's
said, but cited "Fuji's tolerance for interest-rate risk, the
bank's real estate-related exposures, which are among the
largest of Japan's top city banks, and Fuji's
disproportionate exposure to highly leveraged transactions in
the U.S." It said the "review will focus on the factors
contributing to Fuji's deteriorating operating performance,
as well as examine in more detail the bank's exposure to
riskier borrowers." Fuji had nonconsolidated assets of 55.7
trillion yen ($353.31 billion) last Sept. 30, Moody's said.
   Regarding Dai-Ichi, about $1.4 billion in long-term debt
is affected by Moody's review. Dai-Ichi's "overhead ratio is
chronically the highest among its peers, making the bank more
vulnerable to an earnings squeeze when rapidly rising
interest rates narrow the bank's margins," Moody's said;
also, "the bank's real estate-related loans have expanded
faster than those of its peers."
   Moody's said it will focus on Dai-Ichi's efforts to
improve operating efficiency under rising interest rates and
its exposure to real estate lending. Though Moody's regards
the bank's risk level to have increased somewhat, it said it
believes Dai-Ichi retains its solid domestic franchise and
customer loyalty.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Axa-Midi Weighs
   Six U.S. Insurers
   In Purchase Plan
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   F.AXA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- A day after the failure of its effort to acquire
Farmers Group Inc., France's Axa-Midi Assurances says it
already is beginning to look at six other possible U.S.
insurance acquisitions.
   Officials at Axa-Midi, one of France's largest insurance
companies, say that by selling real estate and unneeded
subsidiaries they could raise as much as $8 billion for
future acquisitions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   They had anticipated paying $4.5 billion for Farmers, part
of a broader effort by Sir James Goldsmith's Hoylake
Investments Ltd. to acquire B.A.T Industries Inc., Farmers'
parent. Axa-Midi officials say they could pay more than $4.5
billion for another concern, although they currently don't
plan to use the entire $8 billion on a single purchase. They
say they have acquisition hopes in Europe and Southeast Asia
as well.
   Axa-Midi Chairman Claude Bebear said he currently is
looking at four property and casualty insurance companies and
two life insurance companies in the U.S. They were presented
to him while he was touring the U.S. trying to convince
regulators to approve the Farmers acquisition. Unlike
Farmers, all would be friendly purchases.
   "In one case, a company chairman came to me and said his
capital was broadly dispersed," Mr. Bebear said. "He said he
fears a raid and prefers to choose his acquirer for himself.
In another case, a company chairman told me his current
parent intends to sell his company, and he asked whether I
would be interested."
   An acquisition the size of Farmers would make Axa-Midi the
largest French insurance group, and the first one with such a
strong U.S. presence.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900425-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900425-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
04/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   AHC HPC XON CUM DTE ETN LZ TYSNA BMS CQ ASH TWX PMI CBIO
AZA SRA WMRK DIGI AR SAFC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Amerada Hess          $ .49  $ .32 (6)    ...        53.13
  Hercules Inc            .72    .67 (4)    .66 (12)    9.09
  Exxon Corp             1.01    .95 (5)    ...         6.32
  Cummins Engine          .41    ...       (.44) (7)  193.18
  Detroit Engine          .87    ...        .63  (6)   38.10
  Eaton Corp             1.38    ...       1.15  (9)   20.00
  Lubrizol Corp           .80    ...        .70  (9)   14.29
  Tyson Foods Cl A        .40    ...        .36  (4)   11.11
  Bemis Co                .36    ...        .34  (5)    5.88
  Comm Satellite         1.01    ...        .96  (4)    5.21
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Ashland Oil           $ .02  $ .83 (3) $  .23 (11)   71.43
  Time Warner           (3.25) (2.64)(3)  (2.48) (4)   23.11
  Premark Intl            .39    .48 (3)    .46  (5)   18.75
  Cal Biotechnology      (.15)   ...       (.11) (4)   36.36
  Alza Corp               .16    ...        .19 (12)   15.79
  Stratus Computer        .32    ...        .37 (15)   13.51
  Westmark Intl           .48    ...        .54 (12)   11.11
  DSC Communications      .16    ...        .18  (7)   11.11
  Asarco Inc              .86    ...        .96  (5)   10.42
  Safeco Corp             .89    ...        .98  (9)    9.18

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
