<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Federal-Mogul Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FMO
</CO>
<LP>
   FEDERAL-MOGUL Corp. (Southfield, Mich.) -- Dennis J.
Gormley, 50 years old, was elected chairman of the
manufacturer of vehicle engine parts. Mr. Gormley also is the
company's president and chief executive officer. He succeeds
Thomas F. Russell, 66, who has retired. Mr. Russell will
remain a member of the board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Consumers' Gas
   Official Plans Offer
   If Rival Bid Barred
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.CGT BRG GWT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- A retired executive of Consumers' Gas Co. said
he plans to lead an effort to acquire the company, if he can
persuade regulators to prevent its proposed acquisition by
British Gas PLC for 1.1 billion Canadian dollars (US$927
million).
   F. Warren Hurst, the retired official, said he formed a
private company, ProNational Gas Inc., which filed an
objection to the acquisition plan with the Ontario Energy
Board. The ProNational intervention argues that an
acquisition of Canada's largest gas utility by a foreign
concern wouldn't be in the public and customers' interests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Hurst said he hasn't tried to raise financing, because
there isn't any assurance the Ontario board will reject the
British Gas proposal. GW Utilities Ltd., which is controlled
by the Reichmann family of Toronto, already has agreed to
tender its 82% stake in Consumers' Gas to the British Gas
offer. GW Utilities officials weren't available to comment on
Mr. Hurst's announcement.
   The Ontario board is expected to hold hearings on the
takeover bid next month. If it rejects the application by
British Gas, Mr. Hurst said, ProNational will seek to raise
short-term financing for a bid with the same C$34-a-share
terms to be offered under the British company's proposal. He
said ProNational would then resell most of the shares to
Consumers' Gas's customers and other parties.
   Mr. Hurst, 64 years old, was chief financial officer of
Consumers' Gas until 1971 and a director until 1973. He
described himself as semi-retired, but remains on several
boards. He said he has other partners in ProNational, but
declined to name them.
   Mr. Hurst's announcement didn't hurt stock prices:
Consumers' Gas shares rose 37.5 Canadian cents yesterday, to
close at C$31.125 on the Toronto Stock Exchange. GW Utilities
shares closed at $28.50, down 12.5 cents, in American Stock
Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stelco Pipe-Making Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   STE.A CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   HAMILTON, Ontario -- Stelco Inc. said it plans to build a
pipe-making plant in Welland, Ontario, at a cost of 60
million Canadian dollars ($50.6 million).
   The steel maker said construction will begin immediately,
for completion in early 1992. The plant will have annual
capacity of 140,000 metric tons, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West German Bankruptcies
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   BONN -- West German business bankruptcies dropped 8.6% in
the first quarter of 1990 from year-earlier levels,
continuing a trend of declining insolvencies that began in
1986, the Wiesbaden-based Federal Statistics Office said.
   The number of business bankruptcies fell to 2,321 during
the quarter from 2,540 a year earlier. The total number of
insolvencies, which includes businesses and individuals,
dropped 7.6% to 3,529 from 3,819 a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Statistics Office official said the declining numbers
are probably illustrative of the improving economic climate
in West Germany. He added that the average size of the
insolvencies has been shrinking steadily because fewer big
companies are going bankrupt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raytheon Co. Gets Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   RTN MD
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Raytheon Co. was given a $26.9 million Air
Force contract for B-52 electronic countermeasures equipment.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   McDonnell Douglas Corp. was given a $13.6 milion Navy
contract for aircraft radar improvements.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Baker Snatches Defeat From the Jaws of Victory
   ----
   By Frank J. Gaffney Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   An episode during Secretary of State James Baker's
arms-control negotiating spree in Moscow last week aptly
captures the spirit of his visit -- and exemplifies what is
wrong with the Bush administration's strategy.
   On Friday Mr. Baker delivered the latest in a series of
American snubs to the democratic government of Lithuania. For
two hours, he stood up Prime Minister Kazimiera Prunskiene,
whose country's program -- if implemented by like-minded
reformers throughout the Soviet Union -- threatens to
undermine Soviet military power in much the same way that the
rise of East European democrats has made a hollow shell of
the Warsaw Pact.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Instead, Mr. Baker extended his meeting with President
Mikhail Gorbachev, a man who seems determined to prevent just
such a radical dismantling of Soviet might. According to
press reports, at the appointed hour for his session with
Mrs. Prunskiene, the secretary was proposing a variety of
"breakthroughs," in a desperate bid to "lock up" arms-control
deals affecting strategic nuclear weapons, conventional
forces, chemical arms and nuclear testing prior to next
week's Bush-Gorbachev summit in Washington.
   Just as Mr. Baker has failed to grasp that the U.S. lack
of support for Lithuania dramatically reduces the pressure
for radical political reform in Moscow, he seems equally
unaware that the arms-control agreements he personally has
done so much to shape will preserve -- if not improve --
Soviet military capabilities vis-a-vis the U.S. This result
is all too predictable given the structural problems,
verification shortcomings and asymmetrical technological
effects of the incipient accords:
                                                                                                       

   Strategic Arms Reduction Talks: The primary purpose of the
START Treaty is the substantial reduction of
intercontinental-range nuclear arms. Obtaining such cuts
became an "idee fixe" under the Reagan administration, which
came to office critical of its Democratic predecessor's
inability to negotiate a SALT II accord that went beyond
simply limiting the further growth of Moscow's nuclear
buildup.
   Unfortunately, along the way -- particularly under the
Bush administration -- the objective of reducing the size of
the Kremlin's strategic arsenal became an end in itself,
supplanting the ostensible goal of enhancing the U.S.
deterrent at lower force levels. As a result, the START
Treaty, as negotiated by Mr. Baker, is likely to give rise to
an even larger ratio of Soviet weapons available to attack a
diminishing number of American targets.
   Moreover, the START Treaty is seriously deficient from a
verification standpoint. At next week's summit, Mr. Bush is
expected to sign a "framework agreement" on strategic arms
that immediately commits the U.S. to cutting programs and
budgets, but leaves crucial decisions on verification for
later.
   It is apparent from the emerging framework agreement that
the treaty will include provisions that will make a nightmare
of attempts to verify Soviet compliance; some may actually
invite Soviet cheating. Particularly noteworthy was Mr.
Baker's capitulation last September to Soviet demands that
the U.S. drop its proposal to ban mobile intercontinental
ballistic missiles. Moscow wants to keep at least 1,200 such
ICBMs. With this legal infrastructure, it would have the
potential to support a far larger, covertly deployed mobile
ICBM force. For budgetary and operational reasons, the U.S.
isn't likely to have a comparable legitimate system, to say
nothing of an illegal inventory.
   START also exemplifies another pernicious effect of
arms-control agreements: They tend to have a disproportional
effect upon the area in which the U.S. has the greatest
advantage -- quality. For example, the constraints Mr. Baker
agreed to last week will limit the number and/or range of
technologically sophisticated U.S. air-and sea-launched
cruise missiles.
   The same insidious effect can also result from executive
or legislative branch actions taken to curb activities that
could impinge upon implied treaty commitments. In that
regard, it is very likely that the agreement reached between
Mr. Baker and Mr. Gorbachev to exempt from START the current
version of an extremely promising non-nuclear cruise missile
system, called Tacit Rainbow, will be implemented by the U.S.
government in such a way as to preclude potentially important
modifications or derivatives.
                                                                                                       

   Conventional Forces in Europe: Similar problems beset the
effort to negotiate reductions in NATO and Warsaw Pact forces
in Europe. From a structural standpoint, even a treaty
designed to produce essentially equal levels of American and
Soviet troops and equipment will not correct an underlying
inequality -- namely, the geographic and strategic
asymmetries arising from the Soviet Union's proximity to the
European theater on the one hand and the large ocean barrier
separating the U.S. from its allies on the other.
   The CFE Treaty also faces an array of extraordinary
verification problems, none of which was addressed by Mr.
Baker in Moscow. Not the least of these concerns is the
monitoring of Soviet personnel and aircraft, which could be
reinserted at will from territory outside the agreement's
purview. The CFE accord could also exacerbate the already
considerable impetus on Capitol Hill to reduce the number,
quality and technological sophistication of U.S. conventional
forces in Europe.
   The Soviets made it clear last week that they are
unwilling to negotiate further cuts in conventional arms at
this time. They stood by this position despite Mr. Baker's
reported offer of no fewer than six significant concessions
in the CFE area. Mr. Baker said yesterday that Mr. Bush will
press Mr. Gorbachev next week to revive negotiations to
remove tens of thousands of troops and tanks from Europe.
   One possible explanation for the Soviet intransigence: Mr.
Gorbachev believes that NATO is now in such disarray -- and
the U.S. is so obliged to disengage from the continent for
budgetary reasons -- that the need for a CFE agreement as an
instrument for reducing U.S. influence in Europe is much less
important than his need to preserve the Soviet military
presence in Eastern Europe.
   If so, it stands to reason that Mr. Gorbachev will
similarly seek to suspend or stretch out the much more
important troop reduction agreements now in various stages of
diplomatic evolution between Moscow and its erstwhile Warsaw
Pact allies. Insofar as such accords promise to accomplish
what CFE will not -- that is, the elimination of Soviet
forces from East Germany, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and
Bulgaria -- they are particularly susceptible to new
stonewalling by the Kremlin.
                                                                                                       

   Chemical Weapons: As a first step toward negotiation of a
global ban on chemical arms, the U.S. and the Soviet Union
are expected to sign an accord next week requiring both sides
to destroy substantial parts (80% and 90%, respectively) of
declared, existing stockpiles of such weapons. The word
"declared" is key because no provision is made in the
agreement to establish whether the Soviets' announced
stockpiles conform to reality.
   So deficient in this respect are the structural and
verification aspects of this accord that the administration
has taken an extraordinary step. Fearful that the pact could
not muster the two-thirds majority required for the Senate's
consent to a treaty, it will instead submit the document as
an executive agreement -- the approval of which requires only
a simple majority in both houses of Congress. This is a very
dangerous precedent for the even more unverifiable
multilateral ban on chemical weapons now in preparation.
   Moreover, the administration acceded to Soviet pressure to
terminate production of chemical munitions. This means that
the U.S. will be permanently precluded from updating its
deterrent capability.
   It is bad enough that the U.S. has adopted such a
position, given that there are no provisions for verifying
that the Soviet Union will likewise refrain from producing
toxic chemical agents. It is, however, absolutely
irresponsible for it to do so in the face of evidence of
production and deployment of chemical weapons by countries
such as Libya, Syria and Iraq.
                                                                                                       

   Nuclear Testing Protocol: Finally, Mr. Baker used the
Moscow meeting to settle outstanding differences on a
protocol to the 1974 Threshold Test Ban Treaty (TTBT). This
protocol is supposed to improve the verifiability of the
earlier accord, which limits U.S. and Soviet underground
nuclear explosions to yields of 150 kilotons.
   The real purpose of the protocol, however, is political.
It is designed to allow enthusiasts for still more
restrictive limitations on nuclear testing to aver that the
problems with monitoring the existing pact have been solved.
This would clear the way for negotiations to impose quotas
and/or reduced thresholds -- if not an outright ban -- on
such testing. As yesterday's revelations about safety
problems with certain nuclear weapons makes clear, it is
difficult enough to maintain a safe and effective deterrent
even under the current underground testing regime. Should
such testing be denied, however, matters would become
infinitely worse.
   The testing procedures and mechanical arrangements
stipulated in the protocol, nominally in the interest of
facilitating verification, will impose significant new
constraints on the U.S. use of testing as a means of
improving the effectiveness of its nuclear and non-nuclear
military systems. Indeed, it appears that the Soviets have
been particularly successful in this area in using an
arms-control negotiation to constrain U.S. experimental
activities vital to its technological superiority.
   ---
   Despite such serious flaws, all of these arms-control
agreements -- with the possible exception of understandings
on conventional forces -- are virtually sure to be initialed
at next week's summit. Having invested as much political
capital and personal prestige in arms negotiations as they
have, neither Mr. Bush nor Mr. Baker is likely to let
problems with the substance of the agreements or criticism of
their diplomacy interfere with the opportunity for a
"successful" summit.
   There is, however, a viable alternative to pursuing
traditional arms-control agreements with Moscow: The top
priority of the U.S. should be in joining forces with those
in Lithuania, Azerbaijan, Georgia and elsewhere who seek a
dismantling of the political and economic apparatus that
constitutes the real source of the Soviet threat. If the
Soviet Union's totalitarian and centralized system can be
supplanted with a democratic, free-enterprise one, a sure and
effective control on Moscow's military will be put into
place. That would be far better than any arms agreement.
   ---
   Mr. Gaffney, who was responsible for arms-control issues
as an official in the Reagan Defense Department, directs the
Center for Security Policy in Washington.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Pinnacle West
   Sees No Payout
   For Three Years
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   PNW PPW
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Pinnacle West Capital Corp., which
suspended its 40-cent-a-share common stock dividend in
October, probably won't resume a payout for another three
years, Richard Snell, chairman, president and chief executive
officer, told the annual meeting.
   Pinnacle West, a utility holding company, eliminated its
payout in the face of mounting losses from its MeraBank
thrift unit and considered applying for bankruptcy law
protection. MeraBank is now in the hands of federal
regulators.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a 2 1/2-hour meeting punctuated by calls for the
board's resignation and by angry suggestions of management
incompetence, Mr. Snell repeated Pinnacle West's opposition
to a $1.82 billion takeover offer by PacifiCorp and a $500
million bid from the quasi-municipal Salt River Project
utility for certain electric service territory. Both offers
were made last week and were formally rejected by Pinnacle
West on Tuesday.
   Mr. Snell said that Pinnacle West can recover from its
ill-timed thrift and real estate diversification that has
cost the company more than $900 million in losses. In the 12
months ended March 31, Pinnacle West, which includes the
profitable Arizona Public Service Co., had net losses of
$559.3 million, or $6.44 a share, on $1.5 billion in
operating revenue.
   "Listen closely to this answer -- this company will
survive," Mr. Snell told one testy shareholder.
   But many in the audience were less upbeat. "The bottom
line is that this board has failed; if this were a college
course, they would have flunked," shareholder Richard Baron
told Mr. Snell.
   About half of the more than 1,000 people in the room stood
when asked by a shareholder how many would accept
PacifiCorp's cash offer of $21 a share. And questioner after
questioner challenged Pinnacle West's rejection of the offer.
Mr. Snell later said the informal poll wasn't representative.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Pinnacle West's stock closed at $16, up 12.5 cents, on volume
of 553,300 shares.
   Officials of PacifiCorp, a utility holding company based
in Portland, Ore., didn't directly address the meeting.
However, a number of its officials were in the audience.
   Verl Topham, a PacifiCorp executive vice president, said
following the meeting that PacifiCorp would like to bring its
courtship of an unwilling Pinnacle West "to some sort of
conclusion and get on with it." PacifiCorp officials have
declined to rule out hostile action and have said that they
may make a decision shortly.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Panel Sets
   Milk Support Price
   As 5-Year Floor
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House Agriculture Committee adopted a
$3.6 billion compromise plan to prop up milk prices and hold
down dairy prices for the next five years.
   The committee agreed to set the current milk support price
of $10.10 per hundred pounds as a five-year floor price for
dairy farmers. But the plan would allow for adjustments in
the support price to reflect fluctuations in government-owned
surpluses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Committee staffers estimated that the dairy plan would
cost $1.6 billion more than what the current dairy program
would cost if it were extended for the next five years. But
they said that the plan would still be consistent with Senate
Budget Committee guidelines, which House lawmakers are
prepared to follow in the event of a deficit-reduction
agreement.
   The plan calls for an automatic price-support rise of at
least 25 cents per hundred pounds if dairy surpluses fell
below 3.5 billion pounds. The current $10.10 price would be
maintained as long as surpluses range between 3.5 billion and
five billion pounds. And if dairy farmers produced between
five billion pounds and seven billion pounds more than the
market could bear, the support price would drop between 25
cents and 50 cents per hundred pounds. But in no case would
it go below the $10.10 floor price.
   The government buys surplus cheese, butter and nonfat dry
milk whenever commercial demand isn't sufficient to keep milk
prices from slipping below the support price.
   If government purchases were forecast to exceed seven
billion pounds in any year, the Agriculture Department could
inaugurate an inventory management program, beginning in
1992, to hold down milk production.
   The compromise was offered by Rep. Charles Stenholm (D.,
Texas), chairman of the dairy subcommittee, and Rep. Steve
Gunderson (R., Wis.), the ranking minority member, as an
alternative to a plan that had been embraced earlier by the
subcommittee.
   That plan would have set a floor price of $10.60 per
hundred pounds, imposed assessments on dairy farmers to
discourage production and created a standby system of
two-tier price supports. The Bush administration and some
farm groups strongly objected to a two-tier system.
   The committee, in a minor concession to critics of farm
subsidies, voted to put a $250,000 cap on so-called incentive
payments to individual wool and mohair producers and to
freeze the honey-price support for beekeepers at the fiscal
1990 level.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Soviets to Hold
   National Vote
   On Economic Shift
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MOSCOW (AP) -- The government will lay its future on the
line in the Soviet Union's first national referendum, in
which voters will consider a shift to a market economy that
could cost millions of jobs, officials said.
   The government believes it must have clear public support
before starting the potentially destabilizing five-year plan,
First Deputy Premier Yuri Maslyukov told a news conference.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If the program is not approved, it is my opinion the
government should resign," Mr. Maslyukov said, referring to
the Council of Ministers led by Premier Nikolai I. Ryzhkov.
   It was unclear whether the public would endorse the
changes, which would double food prices Jan. 1, 1991, lead to
widespread closures of inefficient factories, and eventually
allow private ownership of most businesses.
   Mr. Ryzhkov was to present the plan today to the Supreme
Soviet parliament, where some radical reformers were planning
to seek his resignation. He survived a similar no-confidence
vote last fall.
   No Soviet government has ever fallen because of either a
referendum or a parliamentary vote, although prime ministers
have been forced to resign by the Communist Party leader.
   Even if the government falls, Soviet law guarantees that
Mikhail S. Gorbachev would continue the four-year
presidential term to which he was elected by the Congress of
People's Deputies this year. He is also general secretary of
the Communist Party, traditionally the top Kremlin job.
   But Mr. Gorbachev has balked at standing for popular
election, and defeat of the referendum would throw the future
wide open, Mr. Maslyukov said.
   "If the public refuses to consent to the price rises, then
perhaps we will have to resort to round-table discussions,"
Mr. Maslyukov said, referring to talks that led to the fall
of the Communist government in Poland last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE Inc. lowered the rating on
Citicorp's preferred stock to single-A-3 from single-A-2. In
yesterday's edition, the reduction was misstated.
   (See: "Credit Ratings For Citicorp Cut by Moody's ---
Downgrade Involves Debt of $31 Billion; Reserves, Capital
Levels Are Cited" -- WSJ May 23, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   THE STATE OF WISCONSIN Investment Board manages about $23
billion on behalf of state teachers and other employees.
Because of a typographical error, the figure was misstated in
yesterday's edition.
   (See: "K mart Holders Seek Voting Power on `Poison Pill'"
-- WSJ May 23, 1990)
   ---
   THE BOOK VALUES of the eight publicly traded funds
originally sponsored by VMS Realty Partners were largely
reduced in an announcement made last month. In yesterday's
edition it was incorrectly reported that the cuts were
announced Tuesday.
   (See: "VMS Funds Returned to Profitability in First
Quarter but Cut Book Values" -- WSJ May 23, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Durable-Goods
   Orders in April
   Declined 4.1%
   ---
   Transportation Leads Drop;
   Figures Said to Confirm
   Manufacturing Flatness
   ----
   By Katherine Walsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Led by declining orders for transportation
equipment, new orders for durable goods dropped 4.1% in April
after showing healthy increases in February and March, the
Commerce Department reported.
   Orders to factories for durable goods, which include
machinery, household appliances, military equipment, cars and
other items designed to last at least three years, fell to
$123.27 billion last month. April's decline follows a revised
6.5% increase in March to $128.58 billion and a 2.4% increase
in February to $120.78 billion. In January, orders tumbled
10.5%, the steepest decline since the department began
recording the figures 32 years ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many economists said the figures confirm what they've been
seeing for the past year -- a flat manufacturing sector.
   "The weak factory sector reflects the Fed's tightening
that ended in the middle of 1989," said Mike Penzer, senior
economist at Bank of America in San Francisco. He added that
because there is a lag of two or three quarters between the
time a monetary policy is put into effect and the time the
policy is reflected in factory orders, the factory sector may
experience mild growth later this year.
   Orders for transportation equipment plummeted 14.3% last
month after rising 23.4% in March and 10.1% in February. The
February and March increases followed a 27.6% drop in
January.
   The reduction reflected declines in both automobiles and
aircraft. Aircraft orders fluctuate a lot, however, and many
economists agreed that the aircraft industry isn't weakening.
   "If we're going to maintain the growth rate, as subdued as
it is, we're going to have to get something going," said
Robert Dederick, chief economist at Northern Trust Co. in
Chicago.
   Excluding the transportation sector, durable-goods orders
fell 0.1% in April after rising 0.9% in March.
   New orders for nondefense capital goods, considered an
indicator of future plant and equipment spending, fell 9.7%
last month after rising 13.3% in March and dropping 5.9% in
February. Many analysts said April's drop suggests that
orders for nondefense capital goods will be soft during the
second quarter of this year and won't boost the real gross
national product -- the total output of goods and services,
adjusted for inflation -- as they did in the first quarter.
Durable-goods shipments were down 2.3% in April to $122.07
billion following a 1.4% increase in March. Unfilled orders
increased 0.2% in April to $497.84 billion after rising 0.7%
in March.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   B. Manischewitz Co.
   To Fight U.S. Charge
   Over Price Fixing
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEWARK, N.J. -- B. Manischewitz Co. said it will fight a
federal indictment that it conspired to fix the price of
matzo served during Passover.
   The Jersey City maker of kosher foods decided to plead
innocent after U.S. District Judge Harold Ackerman refused to
accept the company's request to plead no contest to the
charges. The U.S. attorney had objected to the company's plea
request.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In court papers, the government said accepting
Manischewitz's request would "blur the question of guilt" and
permit the company "to deny any wrongdoing and to argue that
its plea was entered solely to avoid litigation and business
expense." It also said a no-contest plea would assist
Manischewitz in defending itself in other related civil
suits. Five civil lawsuits connected to the indictment have
been filed against the company in state or federal courts in
New Jersey, California and Illinois, according to Justin P.
Walder, Manischewitz's lawyer.
   Mr. Walder said the company hoped its no-contest plea
would save it from a costly legal defense. But following
Judge Ackerman's decision, he says, "We are prepared to
proceed and test the stale allegations of these charges in a
traditional proceeding."
   An arraignment date hasn't been set.
   Manischewitz, according to the complaint, took in about
$25 million of revenue from sales of Passover matzo products
in the U.S from 1981 to 1986.
   The government hasn't named Manischewitz's alleged
co-conspirators. But in court papers, it said the company
"acquired most of the assets of its major co-conspirator
after Passover 1986." According to a Securities and Exchange
Commission filing, Manischewitz, in August 1986, purchased
certain assets from Horowitz Bros. &amp; Margareten, a New York
matzo maker, for $1.7 million in cash and notes.
   Regardless of its plea, Manischewitz faces a penalty of $1
million or more, if convicted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F GM STK LIL FRE J.TTA BCE
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                        CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ford Capital B.V. -- $500 million of 9 1/2% debentures,
due June 1, 2010, priced at 99.68 to yield 9.536%. The
noncallable debentures were priced at a spread of 95 basis
points above the Treasury's 30-year bellwether bond. Rated
double-A-2 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and double-A by
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold through
underwriters led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. Ford
Capital B.V. is the Dutch finance unit of Ford Motor Co.
   General Motors Acceptance Corp. -- $500 million issue of 8
7/8% notes, due June 1, 2010, priced at 99.958 to yield
8.885%. The size of the issue was increased after pricing
from an originally planned $300 million. The notes can be put
back to the company at par in the fifth, 10th and 15th years.
The noncallable notes were priced at a spread of 35 basis
points above the Treasury's 30-year bellwether bond. Rated
double-A-3 by Moody's and double-A-minus by S&amp;P, the issue
will be sold through underwriters led by Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets.
   Storage Technology Corp. -- $150 million of 8% convertible
subordinated debentures, due May 31, 2015, was priced through
underwriters led by Salomon Brothers Inc. The size of the
issue was increased from an originally planned $125 million.
The debentures are convertible into common stock at $35.25 a
share, representing a 23.14% conversion premium over
Wednesday's closing price. The issue is rated Ba-3 by Moody's
and single-B by S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                        MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

   Battery Park City Authority, New York -- $225 million
revenue bonds, Series 1990, due May 1, 1998-2001, 2006, 2015
and 2020, tentatively priced by a Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. group
to yield from 7.10% in 1998 to 7.80% in 2015. Current
interest serial bonds are priced at par to yield from 7.10%
in 1998 to 7.35% in 2001. There are $30.2 million of 7.60%
term bonds priced at 99.5 to yield 7.65% in 2006. There are
$92.28 million of 7.70% term bonds priced at 98.9 to yield
7.80% in 2015. There are $83.1 million of 6.50% term bonds
priced at 86.03 to yield 7.70% in 2020. The bonds are rated
single-A by Moody's and single-A-minus by S&amp;P.
   Long Island Lighting Co. -- $100 million of tax-exempt
bonds, offered at 6.5% and will have a 30-year maturity. In a
news release, the company said proceeds will be used to
reimburse its treasury for expenditures on projects that
qualify for tax-exempt financing in accordance with Internal
Revenue Service regulations. The bonds are issued by the New
York State Energy Research and Development Authority.
   North Carolina Housing Finance Agency -- $75 million
single-family mortgage revenue bonds, Series L, due Sept. 1,
2032 and Series M, due Sept. 1, 1992-2000, tentatively priced
by a Donaldson, Lufkin Jenrette Securities Corp. group to
yield from 6.30% in 1992 to 7.90% in 2029. Series L consists
of a single portion of 7.60% bonds priced at par in 2032.
Series M consists of current interest serial bonds priced at
par to yield from 6.30% in 1992 to 7.10% in 2000. There are
$7.86 million of term bonds 7 3/8% term bonds priced at par
in 2010. There are $8.4 million of term bonds priced at par
in 2016 and $34.7 million of 7.90% term bonds priced at par
in 2029. The bonds are rated double-A by Moody's and
singleA-plus by S&amp;P. Interest on the Series M bonds will be
treated as a preference item in calculating the Federal
atlernative minimum tax that may be imposed on certain
investors. Series L bonds aren't subject to the Federal
alternative minimum tax.
   San Antonio Water Authority, Texas -- $67 million of prior
lien water revenue bonds, Series 1990, due May 1, 1991-2000,
with capital appreciation bonds due 2001-2012 and prior lien
water system revenue refunding bonds, Series 1990 A, due May
1, 1991-2007, repriced and restructured by a Smith Barney
Harris Upham &amp; Co. group. The repricing lowered some yields
by five basis points. It also raised the yield on some
capital appreciation bonds by five basis points. The
restructuring created bonds maturing in 2006. The bonds are
now priced to yield from 6.10% in 1991 to 7.65% for capital
appreciation bonds due in 2011 and 2012, changed from priced
to yield from 6.10% in 1991 to 7.6% for capital appreciation
bonds due 2010-2012. Series 1990 current interest serial
bonds are priced at par to yield from 6.10% in 1991 to 7.05%
in 2000, changed from 6.10% in 1991 to 7.10% in 2000. Capital
appreciation bonds are priced to yield to maturity from 7.25%
in 2001 to 7.65% in 2011 and 2012, changed from 7.25% in 2001
to 7.60% in 2010-2012. Series 1990 A refunding bonds consist
of current interest serial bonds priced at par to yield from
6.10% in 1991 to 7.35% in 2006 and 2007, changed from 6.10%%
in 1991 to 7.35% in 2005. The bonds are rated double-A by
Moody's and single-A-plus by S&amp;P, excluding capital
appreciation bonds, which are AMBAC-insured and rated
triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $300 million of Remic
mortgage securities, offered in 12 classes by First Boston.
The offering, Series 178, is backed by FHLMC 9 1/2%
securities with a weighted average coupon rate of 10.25% and
weighted average remaining term to maturity of 29.50 years.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Tokyo Tatemono Co. (Japan) -- 20 billion yen of 7%
Eurobonds due June 27, 1997, priced at 100 5/8 to yield 7.23%
less full fees via Daiwa Europe Ltd. Fees 1 7/8 points.
   Bell Canada (Canada) -- 125 million Canadian dollars of 12
3/8% global bonds due June 20, 2000, at an issue price of
101.30, via UBS Philips &amp; Drew Ltd. Reoffered at fixed price
of 99.80, for a yield of 12.05%.
   Queensland Treasury Corp. -- 100 million Australian
dollars of 12% Eurobonds due July 15, 1993, at an issue price
of 98.44, via S.G. Warburg &amp; Co. Reoffered at a fixed-price
of 98.123, which gives a yield of 14.70%. Transferable into
QTC's domestic issue.
   Queensland Treasury Corp. -- 100 million Australian
dollars of global 12% bonds due March 15, 1992, with initial
price of 95.875 to yield 14.69%, via Merrill Lynch
International.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   How to Forestall Theft
   Of the Peace Dividend
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Surplus Social Security revenues are now accumulating in
the trust fund at the rate of $50 billion a year, rising to
$100 billion in 1993, $150 billion in 1997 and $200 billion
in 2000. In the next five years the surplus will reach $500
billion. Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan (D., N.Y.) says, let's
reduce the Social Security tax and stop stealing wholesale
from the trust fund to mask the budget deficit. Sen. Ernest
F. Hollings (D., S.C.) calls this $500 billion grab "the
grandest larceny in history."
   Prof. Martin Feldstein (editorial page, April 25)
identifies the key question, namely whether the accumulation
of surpluses in the trust fund actually increases national
saving and capital formation. He then answers the question in
the affirmative -- by a leap of faith -- and berates the
Moynihan proposal for reducing the saving rate. But as
pointed out in his essay, it all depends on the assumptions
made about spending and taxes, and whether cutting the Social
Security tax would force an increase in the budget deficit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There could be a way to please those who want to reduce
the regressive Social Security tax and those who want to
lower government spending -- while keeping the deficit from
growing and Gramm-Rudman-Hollings intact. Most immediately,
it has to do with the "global political warming," which may
yet yield a "peace dividend" in the form of substantial cuts
in the defense budget. Of course, most every member of
Congress already has plans to spend this money on his pet
project; but a dividend should be paid out to shareholders:
i.e., to the taxpayers. This is the essence of Sen. William
Roth's (R., Del.) tax-cut proposal for lower- and
middle-income taxpayers. But with fierce opposition from
Democratic leaders in both chambers, and absence of White
House support, the Roth proposal may meet the same fate as an
earlier tax-cut proposal by Sen. Phil Gramm (R., Texas).
Therefore, why not link the Moynihan Social Security tax cut,
on a dollar-for-dollar basis, to defense cuts -- before
someone makes off with the dividend? This scheme would keep
the deficit from growing and meet the objectives of the Roth
bill.
   Who knows? After the peace dividend, the "food dividend"
could come next -- if we can get Congress to cut agricultural
subsidies. Pat Moynihan may be onto something.
   S. Fred Singer
   Director
   Science &amp; Environmental Policy Project
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GE Says It Settled
   Its Lawsuit Against
   Daimler-Benz AG
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GE G.DAI UTX G.MUT
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   FAIRFIELD, Conn. -- General Electric Co. said it settled
its suit against Daimler-Benz AG that had charged the West
German company with breaking its agreement to jointly develop
a new generation of jet engines.
   Under the settlement, GE said it will get additional
revenue from their existing long-term programs with
Daimler-Benz on engines that generate 50,000 to 75,000 pounds
of thrust. These engines are used in Boeing 747, the Airbus
A310 and McDonnell Douglas MD-11 airplanes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GE, however, agreed to end its agreement with Daimler on
developing the next generation of engines with 85,000 to
95,000 pounds of thrust, the so-called GE90 engines.
   GE sued Daimler-Benz last April when, it alleged, the
German concern's Motorenund Turbinen-Union unit, known as
MTU, broke the agreement with GE and entered into "a
memorandum of understanding" with United Technologies Corp.
to pursue a wide range of commercial engine programs.
   As part of the settlement, MTU will destroy all
proprietary information it has on the GE90 engine. MTU will
be free to proceed with its agreement with United
Technologies' Pratt &amp; Whitney unit to develop the PW4000
engine, which will compete with GE90.
   GE declined to say how much additional revenue it will
receive as a result of the renegotiated terms on existing
long-term contracts with MTU. But an official familiar with
the settlement estimated the amount to be "several hundred
million dollars" over 10 to 15 years.
   Daimler-Benz couldn't be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CS First Boston
   Hires Raziano
   From Shearson
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.CSU SLH AXP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- CS First Boston Inc., completing a management
shakeup, hired a Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc.
executive who directed Shearson's cost-cutting and layoff
efforts in recent years.
   The hiring by CS First Boston of Shearson's chief
administrative officer, Robert M. Raziano, enabled CS First
Boston to fill two new senior-management posts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the more senior level appointment, Anthony P. Grassi, a
First Boston Corp. managing director, was named chief
financial and administrative officer of CS First Boston. The
job includes business planning, budgeting and all financial
and administrative systems. First Boston is CS First Boston's
U.S. investment bank
   Mr. Raziano, meanwhile, will become head of finance,
administration, systems and operations at First Boston. Mr.
Raziano resigned from Shearson this week and his new job --
which combines the former functions of chief financial
officer and the head of administration, systems and
operations -- is effective June 18.
   Mr. Raziano assumes the duties of former First Boston
Chief Financial Officer John E. Toffolon Jr., who resigned,
and Fenton R. "Pete" Talbott, the former head of
administration and systems who CS First Boston said will
assist Mr. Raziano "in the transition."
   At Shearson, Mr. Raziano was well known as the central
figure in all of that firm's cost-containment efforts,
including the brokerage firm's thousands of layoffs. While
chief operating officer of Shearson's London unit during
1987, for example, he sliced 150 of the unit's nearly 1,300
employees. CS First Boston wouldn't say it hired Mr. Raziano
simply to help with layoffs, but that is clearly part of his
job.
   "The reason we have hired Mr. Raziano is because he is one
of the best people on the Street in finance, administration,
systems and operations," said a CS First Boston spokesman,
"and clearly part of that function is making sure we operate
as efficiently as possible."
   A Shearson spokesman said there are no plans at this time
to find a successor to Mr. Raziano. Because Shearson plans
soon to split into separate brokerage and investment-banking
units, Mr. Raziano's old job won't exist anymore but will
probably be divided up.
   CS First Boston has been in a cost-cutting mode. The firm,
which is 44.5%-owned by the parent of Swiss bank Credit
Suisse, reported a slim $11 million profit last year; this
year it is trying to cut costs by at least 10%, and is
expected to trim hundreds of employees from its world-wide
staff of 6,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   TV: Bach, Stalin, the Summit and the Tonys
   ----
   By Martha Bayles
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Tonight, 9-11 p.m. EDT, on CBS: "Sisters." This drama
about sibling rivalry in Manhattan may bring Woody Allen's
films to mind. But really, it's more like "thirtysomething."
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Friday, May 25, 9-10:30 p.m. EDT, on PBS (PBS dates and
times vary, so check local listings): "The Stations of Bach."
   This lushly scenic tour through the German cities that
were home to Bach includes fine performances by German
ensembles, and the deft musical insights of the host,
violinist James Buswell.
                                                                                                       

   Sunday, May 27, 8-9:30 p.m. EDT, on PBS: "National
Memorial Day Concert."
   Never before televised, this live concert from the Capitol
in Washington, D.C., will honor America's war dead and
veterans with patriotic standards and non-standards. Among
the performers are Rosemary Clooney and the U.S. Army Fife
and Drum Corps.
                                                                                                       

   Sunday, May 27, 8-10 p.m. EDT, on A&amp;E (repeated at
midnight and June 2): "Tumbledown." For those who take a
gloomier view of Memorial Day, this BBC film dramatizes the
story of Robert Lawrence, a Scots Guard lieutenant who was
physically disabled by wounds suffered during the Falklands
War, then emotionally devastated by the treatment he received
back in Britain.
                                                                                                       

   Mondays, May 28-June 11, 9-10 p.m. EDT, on PBS: "Stalin."
   Was he a lunatic who derailed a noble revolution, or was
he the inevitable product of totalitarian ideology? This
series, co-produced by WGBH Boston and Thames Television,
gives no conclusive answer. But it does offer a frightening
portrait of the tyrant described in an early police report as
"active and serious . . . extremely conspiratorial."
                                                                                                       

   Beginning Thursday, May 31, on various outlets: Coverage
of the summit meeting between Presidents Bush and Gorbachev.
                                                                                                       

   Friday, June 1, 9-10:30 p.m. EDT, on PBS: "Cinderella."
   The music is still by Prokofiev, but the strange sounds,
bizarre settings and weird choreography are by the French
choreographer Maguy Marin. This intriguing production from
the Lyon Opera Ballet is presented by "Alive From Off
Center."
                                                                                                       

   Saturday, June 2, 9 p.m. -- midnight EDT, on various
stations (check local listings): "Earth '90."
   This international broadcast will resemble the famous
"Live Aid" show of 1985, but it isn't a fund raiser. Instead,
entertainers in Japan, the U.S., Brazil and the U.S.S.R. will
simply make a joyful noise unto the environment. John Denver
and Olivia Newton-John co-host.
                                                                                                       

   Sundays, June 3-24, 5 p.m. EDT (program lengths vary), on
Bravo: Maurice Sendak operas on "Culture for Kids."
   This unusual series begins with two musical pieces by
Ravel, staged by the acclaimed children's author. Then it
continues with stagings of a Mother Goose tale and, finally,
Mr. Sendak's own classic, "Where the Wild Things Are."
                                                                                                       

   Sunday, June 3, 9-11 p.m. EDT, on CBS: "The 44th Annual
Tony Awards."
   Kathleen Turner, currently appearing on Broadway as the
cat in Tennessee Williams's "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof," will
emcee this year's Broadway-theater awards ceremony, broadcast
live from the Lunt-Fontanne Theatre in New York.
                                                                                                       

   Monday, June 4, 8-9 p.m. EDT, on TNT (repeated at 11 p.m.
and June 9): "Myrna Loy: So Nice to Come Home to."
   As it happens, Ms. Turner also is hosting this film
tribute to the witty and sexy Hollywood superstar. The
script, written by the film critic Richard Schickel, is a cut
above the usual.
                                                                                                       

   Monday, June 4, 10-11 p.m. EDT, on PBS: "USSR Art."
   Talk about culture shock. This film traces the changes
occurring in the Soviet underground art scene, now that it
has been opened up to the Western art market. As described by
Viktor Misiano, the former curator of the Pushkin Museum: "If
you go to studios where the conversation used to be all about
God, light, the universe, about moral and ethical problems,
now the conversation is about one thing -- money."
                                                                                                       

   Tuesday, June 5, 10-11 p.m. EDT, on PBS: "Living the Last
Days."
   In an effort to reduce costs and bring comfort to those
dying of AIDS, Los Angeles's Brownlie Hospice opened in 1988.
This film portrays the daily atmosphere in that remarkable
facility.
                                                                                                       

   Wednesday, June 6, 8-9 p.m. EDT, on PBS: "The Quantum
Universe."
   It's so simple, even an 11-year-old child can explain it.
Or such is the premise of this Smithsonian World special, in
which 20th-century physics is taught through narration (by an
11-year-old), acting, music and graphics.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hunter, Ex-Partner
   Of Dominelli, Pleads
   Guilty to 4 Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   SAN DIEGO -- Nancy Hoover Hunter, former girlfriend and
business partner of convicted swindler J. David Dominelli,
pleaded guilty to four felony charges in exchange for
immunity from further criminal prosecution.
   Mrs. Hunter, 51 years old, pleaded guilty in federal court
here to single counts of mail fraud and lying to a
Commodities Futures Trading Commission agent. She also
pleaded guilty to two counts of selling unregistered
securities in connection with a currency-trading scam that
bilked investors out of about $80 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Neither Mrs. Hunter nor her two attorneys could
immediately be reached for comment.
   The charges stemmed from money Mrs. Hunter received from
Mr. Dominelli, who is serving a 20-year sentence for
admittedly masterminding the scheme. Mrs. Hunter was an
executive in J. David &amp; Co., La Jolla, Calif., from 1979
until 1984, when the firm was forced into bankruptcy.
   Under the plea agreement, Mrs. Hunter won't spend any more
time in prison than the 10-year sentence she received in
March for tax evasion related to her former links with Mr.
Dominelli. Jury selection was to have started Tuesday for her
retrial on 192 counts; the first panel of jurors had
deadlocked.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Mostly Rises in Quiet Trading;
   Market Has Little Reaction to U.S. News
   ----
   By John Bader
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA FREST JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar rose modestly against most
currencies in quiet dealings as participants found ways to
discount several developments with market-moving potential.
   Statements by top U.S. monetary officials on interest
rates and the release of figures on U.S. durable-goods orders
for April caused little change in dollar rates, traders said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. unit likewise remained little changed against its
Canadian and British counterparts in spite of the continuing
constitutional impasse in Canada and the release of
statistics showing a wider-than-expected U.K. merchandise
deficit for April.
   In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was quoted
at 1.6765 marks, up from 1.6736 marks late Tuesday, and at
151.45 yen, up from 151.20 yen late Tuesday. Sterling was
quoted at $1.6940, up from $1.6928 late Tuesday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Thursday, the U.S. currency was
trading at 151.18 yen, down a bit from Wednesday's Tokyo
close of 151.35 yen. Meanwhile, the dollar was trading in
Tokyo at 1.6673 marks.
   Comments by Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady that
substantial Treasury borrowing will be necessary to pay the
debt of insolvent savings-and-loan institutions had little
effect on the dollar.
   There was little reaction to the statement, said Martin
McNulty, a vice president at Lloyd's Bank in New York. He
said participants reasoned that any positive impact on the
dollar caused by a rise in U.S. interest rates stemming from
increased Treasury borrowing would be offset by the
potentially bearish impact of a wider U.S. federal budget
deficit.
   The impact of Mr. Brady's comments, in which he said the
S&amp;L bailout could cost as much as $132 billion, was further
diluted because it has been widely assumed in the market that
the cost of rescuing insolvent S&amp;Ls would be far higher than
the $30 billion currently authorized, Mr. McNulty said.
   A statement later by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan
Greenspan that the resolution of the S&amp;L crisis will have
only minimal effect on interest rates served to confirm the
market's initial assessment of the situation, said Bill
Chepolis, a trader at Norwest Corp. in Minneapolis.
   The release early in the New York day of a
larger-than-expected 4.1% fall in U.S. April durable-goods
orders from March didn't affect dollar rates to a great
degree because the market is focused on budget-deficit talks
currently under way in Washington between the Bush
administration and Congress, dealers said. A fall of 2.2% had
been expected.
   While the fall in orders was seen as another sign of a
slowing U.S. economy, the market is more interested in
today's revision of first-quarter gross national product and
its attendant price deflator because of its implications for
interest rates, participants said.
   Revised first-quarter GNP is expected to show a downward
adjustment to 1.8% from an originally announced 2.1%. The
price deflator is expected to remain at 5.7%.
   Meanwhile, the Canadian dollar stabilized at slightly
higher levels against the U.S. dollar as participants settled
back following Tuesday's wild swings to assess the political
situation there, said Diego Giurleo, corporate
foreign-exchange manager at Royal Bank of Canada in New York.
   "The political situation there is not out of control," Mr.
Giurleo said, noting that the June 23 deadline for
ratification of the controversial constitutional amendment on
Quebec is still a month away.
   In the meantime, the Canadian unit will be volatile but
the currency will be prevented from falling too far by
Canada's high interest rates, he said. As was the case
yesterday, the high rates and occasional dips in the Canadian
currency will prove very attractive to bargain hunters, he
added.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery plummeted $11.50 to $364.10 an ounce. The close was
the lowest since Oct. 13. Estimated volume was a very heavy
seven million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Thursday, gold was quoted at $366.65 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Seagram Lifts Payout
   By 43% to 50 Cents,
   Topping Expectations
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   VO
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Seagram Co. raised its quarterly dividend 43%
to 50 U.S. cents a share from 35 cents, a bigger increase
than analysts expected.
   "I think the size of the boost might be considered
surprising," said Michael Palmer, an analyst with McCarthy
Securities Ltd. in Toronto. Mr. Palmer said Seagram had been
telling analysts the company is in good financial shape and
to expect a dividend increase. The dividend is payable June
15 to stock of record June 4.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Seagram said operating profit in its first quarter ended
April 30 was significantly better than the year-earlier
US$125.4 million. Operating profit doesn't include dividends
received from Du Pont Co. and equity in Du Pont's unremitted
earnings. Seagram owns 24.2% of Du Pont, a Wilmington, Del.,
chemical and energy concern. Seagram said its first-quarter
earnings will be reported shortly.
   Speaking after the annual meeting here, Edgar Bronfman,
chairman and chief executive officer, declined to comment on
analysts' mean earnings estimate for the year ending Jan. 31
of US$8.50 a share. In fiscal 1990, Seagram earned US$710.6
million, or US$7.37 a share. But Mr. Bronfman said earnings
from Seagram's spirits and beverages business will be "quite
a bit better," compared with a year earlier.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Seagram shares jumped $2 to close at $86.50.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Angelica Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AGL
</CO>
<LP>
   ANGELICA Corp. (St. Louis) -- Lawrence J. Young, president
and chief executive officer, was named to the additional post
of chairman, effective Nov. 1. Mr. Young, 46 years old, will
succeed Leslie F. Loewe, 69, who will become chairman
emeritus. Mr. Young was named president of the maker of
uniforms and provider of laundry services in February 1988.
In November 1989, Mr. Young succeeded Mr. Loewe as chief
executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Agriculture -- A Special Report
   ---
   Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   IBP CAG FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   DOWN ON THE FARM, things -- finally -- return to normal.
   Farmers are still cautious, says Ken Bird of First
National Bank of Kiester, Minn. "But they're finally taking
out loans to buy implements and fix up." Farm debt, which has
dropped by a third since the mid-'80s, is expected to edge up
this year, economists say. Profitability is back to a
4%-to-5% return on assets from 1% or less a decade ago. The
price of land, farmers' biggest asset, is rising for the
fourth straight year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some 31% of Midwesterners say they are better off than a
year ago; only 17% are worse off, says a University of Iowa
Heartland Poll. Corn and winter-wheat growers are twice
blessed: adequate spring rain and exports to keep prices
strong. One result: Federal payments to Indiana farmers are
expected to make up less than 40% of net farm income,
compared with 74% in 1987.
   A six-year-old crisis line for Missouri farmers was
disconnected a month ago because it got so few calls.
                                                                                                       

   PACKER BASHERS turn up the heat on meat mergers.
   Rural activists upset over the growing concentration of
meatpackers are finding support among groups such as the
American Farm Bureau Federation. Five state attorneys general
want Uncle Sam to look for antitrust violations by the top
beef companies: IBP, ConAgra and Cargill. The three slaughter
some 70% of U.S. beef.
   Fierce competition that keeps profits at less than 1% of
sales has kept the Justice Department from stepping in. But
anti-concentration sentiment is spreading due to a rebound in
herd size that may let meatpackers bid down farm prices.
Also, big meatpackers are fattening more of their own cattle
and expanding into the hog business. Still, Cargill says
government studies haven't found that concentration hurts
prices. "It's never been more competitive," a spokesman says.
                                                                                                       

   MOSCOW LOOKS WEST for technology to fix its ailing food
system.
   Western analysts say a third of some Soviet crops spoil
before they're used. Now the Soviets are starting to import
U.S. technology for everything from canning vegetables to
cleaning raisins. To cut meat transport time, the U.S.S.R. is
breaking up its slaughterhouses into hundreds of local
meatpacking plants, says Jim Masterson of Koch Supplies Inc.,
Kansas City, Mo. His company is negotiating to design a
showcase plant near Moscow. Seed &amp; Grain Systems Inc., New
Virginia, Iowa, has an $8.1 million contract to oversee
construction of a facility to treat and bag seed corn.
   Political uncertainty and difficulty in getting currency
out of the Soviet Union makes U.S. companies cautious about
joint ventures. But Soviet business is seen as a possible
boon by agriculture-related companies, such as grain-bin
makers, that have fallen on hard times. "We need to follow
the business where it goes," says John Kerr of Chief
Industries Inc., Grand Island, Neb., which is negotiating a
$2.5 million deal with the Soviets to design a grain-drying
facility.
   The Soviet Union's agricultural science academy and Iowa
State University agreed this week to open sister commercial
offices.
                                                                                                       

   IRRADIATED CHICKEN isn't headed to market, despite a Food
and Drug Administration clearance. The X-ray treatment could
reduce salmonella in processing plants, but consumers "still
equate it with nuclear power plants," says Stephen Pretanik
of the National Broiler Council.
                                                                                                       

   BY ANY OTHER NAME? The Fertilizer Institute, which
represents commercial makers, says the name manure has "a
natural connotation" that is misleading. It prefers "fecal
contamination," saying the stuff "isn't a warm fuzzy
substance."
                                                                                                       

   FARMS DON'T COMPUTE as much as expected, says an
Agriculture Department survey. Only 3% of U.S. farmers use
computers for financial record-keeping. The most common spot
for computerized farms: the West Coast.
                                                                                                       

   OPTIONS RESURFACE as a possible way to replace government
payments.
   A 1988 experiment by the Agriculture Department flopped:
Only a handful of 5,000 farmers attending classes signed up
to buy options on futures contracts with a government safety
net, thus hedging the price their crops would bring. Now the
Chicago Board of Trade is pushing a second experiment. "The
idea of getting farmers to use private-sector financial
instruments instead of public support is a good one," says
Bruce Gardner, the top USDA economist.
   The problem: Options to buy futures contracts are so
complex that even some savvy food companies spurn them. Some
surveys show only about 10% of farmers have ever used a
futures contract, partly due to the suspicion that traders
manipulate grain prices. "I've had a long distrust of those
markets," says Alan Bergman, president of the North Dakota
Farmers Union.
   Soviets are very interested in futures trading, with Refco
running several officials through its training course.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Hamilton Meat Co., San Diego, installs a rib-eye
steak vending machine in Japan. . . . A favorite pastime of
42% of farmers surveyed by Farm Futures magazine: church.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Capital &amp; Research
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   ACRCA X
</CO>
<LP>
   FAIRFAX, Va. -- American Capital &amp; Research Corp. said its
ICF Kaiser Engineers unit was awarded a $31 million contract
from USX Corp.'s U.S. Steel unit for design and installation
of six primary coolers and related equipment at a coke plant
in Clairton, Pa.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Costco Wholesale Corp.:
   Firm to Close Four Outlets,
   Sees Charge of $3.7 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   COST
</CO>
<LP>
   Costco Wholesale Corp. said in Kirkland, Wash., that it
expects to take a $3.7 million charge in the third quarter
ended May 13 because it plans to close four of its warehouse
stores in Florida.
   Costco said that three of the stores have been
unprofitable and that a fourth was being closed in
conjunction with the opening of a new facility. It said it
will continue operating at nine locations in Florida.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the year-earlier quarter, net income was $4.6 million,
or 18 cents a share, on revenue of $645.9 million. The
cash-and-carry membership warehouse operator, which said it
expects to finish the fiscal year with 62 stores, plans to
add 10 to 12 locations next year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology and Health:
   Nursing Homes,
   While Improving,
   Have Problems
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Overall conditions in the nation's nursing
homes have improved, but many homes for the elderly fall
short of standards for handling food and drugs, the
government reported in its second annual survey.
   The 93-volume survey gives individual reports on 15,600
nursing homes that receive payments from Medicare and
Medicaid, the federal health plans for the elderly, disabled
or poor. Officials of the nursing home industry warned that
the reports, issued to help potential patients and their
families choose facilities, can give misleading impressions
about the quality of care because they fail to make
distinctions about the severity of deficiencies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The reports show that although most facilities comply with
federal requirements, the inspectors found many problems
during their certification surveys of facilities. For
instance, the reports show that more than a third of the
homes failed to meet federal requirements that food be
"stored, refrigerated, prepared, distributed and served under
sanitary conditions" and that more than 20% didn't administer
drugs "according to the written orders of the attending
physicians."
   Gail Wilensky, head of the Health Care Financing
Administration in the Department of Health and Human
Services, acknowledged that "there are limitations to the
information contained in these volumes." She stressed,
however, that "we're very concerned about the quality of care
in nursing homes."
   Paul Willging, executive vice president of the American
Health Care Association, which represents nursing homes,
warned that the data in the reports give an incomplete and
subjective picture of nursing home conditions. The profiles
of each nursing home give information on only 32 of the some
500 requirements that inspectors check.
   The Health Care Financing Association also drew criticism
for its enforcement efforts. The reports show a "shameful
failure of our government to enforce decent standards of
quality in American nursing homes," charged Elma Holder, the
executive director of the National Citizen's Coalition for
Nursing Home Reform. Last year, the HCFA barred some 80
nursing homes from receiving federal funds after finding that
they failed to meet federal standards. Ms. Holder said that
the small number of terminations shows that "enforcement is
the exception rather than the rule in the nursing home
licensure and certification system."
   The HCFA is issuing tougher nursing home regulations, as
required by a 1987 law. New rules to protect patients go into
effect Oct. 1. The HCFA recently proposed requirements for
training nurses aides and preadmission screening and, in a
few months, the agency plans to propose new enforcement
penalties.
   Mrs. Wilensky said the HCFA's latest nursing home reports
will be widely available in libraries, local congressional
offices, some Social Security offices, and in regional
offices of the American Association of Retired Persons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   War on Gerrymandering, California-Style
   ----
   By Dan Walters
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   SACRAMENTO -- The late Rep. Phil Burton was once asked to
describe the 45 California congressional districts he created
in secrecy in the early 1980s.
   "It's my contribution to modern art," Mr. Burton, a San
Francisco Democrat who was the unofficial boss of the
California delegation, replied.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And art it was. Mr. Burton's districts swooped and dipped
through the social and physical landscape. Several districts
had pieces that touched only underwater.
   Prior to the Burton-drawn redistricting, California's
43-member House delegation had been divided nearly evenly, 22
Democrats and 21 Republicans. After the Burton plan went into
effect for the 1982 elections (a liberal-dominated state
Supreme Court ordered its use even though voters had rejected
it 2-1 via referendum), the delegation, two seats larger due
to population growth, had a 28-17 Democratic tilt.
   Mr. Burton's plan, universally regarded as a classic
gerrymander even by Democratic partisans, was so adroitly
drawn that despite Republican voter registration gains and an
overall GOP cast in congressional voting patterns, the
Democrats lost but one of their seats in the 1980s, leaving
the delegation with a 27-18 split today.
   As census-takers complete their count of California and
other states, partisan warriors are arming themselves for new
battles over reapportionment of congressional and legislative
districts. And it's clear that populous, fast-growing
California will be the major battleground.
   The political stakes are enormous.
   Because it has added six million people to its population
in the past decade, California will be awarded six or seven
new congressional seats, nearly half of those that will be
shifted from Frost Belt to Sun Belt states. The state's
congressional delegation, 51 or 52, will be the largest of
any state in the nation's history and California alone will
have a fifth of the electoral votes needed to elect a
president.
   Republicans want back the five seats Rep. Burton pilfered
a decade ago, and they want all the new seats. They also want
a better shake on state legislative seats, which were
similarly tilted to lock in Democratic control of the
statehouse.
   Democrats have seen their voter registration drop steadily
in California, falling below 50% for the first time in more
than a half-century. They lost seven of the nine
top-of-the-ticket elections in the 1980s and, until the
post-1980 census reapportionment, were seeing their margins
in congressional and legislative seats also shrink. To
Democrats, therefore, reapportionment is a matter of
political life and death. A fair reapportionment could mean
GOP control of the state Legislature and the congressional
delegation by the end of the decade.
   It's no wonder that leaders of both parties are pulling
out all the stops.
   Their immediate focus is on two ballot measures set for
June 5. Both have Republican sponsors, but there's a split in
GOP ranks between those who think reapportionment should be
removed entirely from the Legislature and those who want to
leave it but impose restrictions.
   The former measure, sponsored by San Mateo County
Supervisor Tom Huening, would create an independent
commission appointed by retired judges to draw new lines. The
latter, sponsored by Marin County businessman Gary Flynn,
would leave the task with the Legislature but require a
two-thirds vote, which would give Republicans a veto power.
   Democrats despise both measures but seem to dislike an
independent commission more -- it would negate the
possibility of a bipartisan, incumbent-protecting deal.
   The Democrats' chief warrior is Assembly Speaker Willie
Brown, a colorful veteran of California political wars. Mr.
Brown has been hitting Democratic money sources, such as the
California Trial Lawyers Association and the California
Teachers Association, hard for endorsing the Huening measure
and has publicly denounced the League of Women Voters for
endorsing it. He suggested in one speech that the
organization's members should "go back to the kitchen."
   The GOP, meanwhile, has gotten initial support from
California corporate interests, such as Chevron and
Hewlett-Packard, but that, in turn, has created a backlash.
Corporate officials say privately that Democrats have warned
them that unless they match pro-GOP checks with
pro-Democratic money or refuse to contribute to the
reapportionment campaigns, they'll suffer the consequences on
legislation in both Sacramento and Washington.
   Both sides agree that as much as $12 million will be spent
by election day to sway voters, who seem to be leaning toward
passage of at least one of the proposals. Republicans are
hoping to capitalize on a wave of anti-politician sentiment
that stems from scandals in Washington and Sacramento, while
Democrats will portray the initiatives as partisan and power
grabs by special interests.
   If both of the measures are rejected, a second stage of
the California reapportionment battle will occur in November,
when voters choose a new governor to succeed retiring
Republican George Deukmejian. Under the current system, the
governor would have to sign any reapportionment bill from the
Legislature. GOP leaders had hoped that Mr. Deukmejian would
seek a third term to protect their interests on
reapportionment.
   When Mr. Deukmejian decided to retire, the Republican
chieftains turned almost desperately to the party figure they
believed had the best chance to keep the governor's office in
GOP hands -- Sen. Pete Wilson, who had just been elected to a
second term.
   Reapportionment loomed so large in the minds of
Republicans that even New Right conservatives agreed to Mr.
Wilson, a moderate former mayor of San Diego who had long
been anathema to the right because of his pro-choice,
pro-environment, pro-gay-rights positions. The Bush White
House pushed for making Mr. Wilson the consensus choice. Mr.
Wilson is favored to win the governorship against either of
the Democratic candidates, John Van de Kamp and Dianne
Feinstein.
   Either by voter decree or gubernatorial power, then, it's
probable that the Democratic hold on California politics, an
artificial grip that amounts to disenfranchisement for
millions of Californians and a denial of political reality,
will end.
   ---
   Mr. Walters is a political columnist for the Sacramento
Bee.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ENTERPRISE
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   Small U.S. Contractors
   Trail in Drug Efforts
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   FIFTEEN MONTHS after federal regulations demanding
drug-free workplaces for federal contractors took effect,
small businesses trail in compliance.
   "I'd guess maybe half of the small employers that have to
develop a drug-free workplace policy under federal law
haven't done so," says Bill Jones, a Potomac Electric Power
Co. executive on loan to the Corporation Against Drug Abuse,
a Washington, D.C., nonprofit group that helps companies
develop anti-drug policies.
   Many business owners say they are confused about what is
required. Companies involved in transportation or
national-defense work must adopt a drug-testing program for
employees. But most federal contractors aren't in this
category and thus have a less complex task.
   As a condition of their government contract, they must
simply make a "good-faith effort" to maintain a drug-free
workplace. This means drafting an official drug-abuse policy
and communicating it effectively to workers. Posting a notice
on the bulletin board isn't enough. Authorities say the
government wants to see evidence of regular communication,
such as seminars, posters, items in company newsletters and
anti-drug notices in paychecks.
   Also, a contractor must tell the government if an employee
is convicted of drug-law violations that occurred on the job
and take sanctions against the worker. The rules don't cover
alcohol abuse.
   Once they master such details, some companies praise the
new law. "My first reaction was, `Oh, no. Not another
program,'" says Laura Henderson, president of Prospect
Associates, a Rockville, Md., health-care consulting firm
whose major client is the National Institutes of Health.
   But on reflection, Ms. Henderson says, the law "focused me
on the fact that the workplace is where we may be able to
have an impact on the drug problem." The law's required paper
work "isn't onerous," she says. "It's just one more thing a
small company has to do."
                                                                                                       

   Many Manufacturers
   Expect a Profitable Year
                                                                                                       

   SMALL manufacturers in this country say their profit out
look is bright.
   Some 46% of manufacturers surveyed for the accounting firm
Grant Thornton said they expect their profits this year to
exceed 1989 levels. Grant Thornton said 36% predicted flat
earnings; only 18% said profits will decline.
   "Although manufacturers differ on the likelihood of a
recession, their optimistic profit outlook reflects a belief
in the strength of their companies to withstand a slowing of
the economy," says Michael N. Cantwell, who oversees Grant
Thornton's surveys of manufacturers. For the latest survey,
conducted in February and released in April, the New York
firm had Wirthlin Group of McLean, Va., interview 250
representative manufacturers with sales between $10 million
and $200 million a year.
   According to the survey, 36% of the respondents expect
inflation to increase this year; only 5% expect it to
decrease.
   Industrial-goods makers were twice as likely as
consumer-goods producers to predict lower profits. Firms with
sales under $20 million a year were less likely than others
to predict higher profits.
                                                                                                       

   Both Sexes Are Drawn
   To Working at Home
                                                                                                       

   AN entrepreneur's place often is in the home. More than
37% of female entrepreneurs and 33% of male entrepreneurs
responding to a recent nationwide survey say they work from
home.
   The reason given most often by women is competing domestic
demands, such as taking care of children or household chores.
   "I like the low overhead, the convenience and the ease of
childrearing," says Ann Ensley, who runs a specialty
advertising company, Lateral Lines, out of her home in Grand
Junction, Colo. Likewise, Sheila Larsen says she started an
upholstery business in her home in Federal Way, Wash., five
years ago "so I could stay home with my kids."
   Most of the male respondents say they like working at home
because operating costs are minimal, they don't have to
commute and can dress casually.
   In the survey, United Group Information Services, an
affiliate of Texas health insurer United Group Associates,
polled 20,400 businesses with 10 or fewer employees. Male
business owners outnumbered female owners nearly 4 to 1.
   In a separate study of 1,080 entrepreneurs, United Group
found that 75% of the women and 67% of the men thought it was
best to build new businesses from scratch rather than to
acquire companies. Both sexes agreed that being your own boss
and having a sense of independence are the main reasons to
become an entrepreneur. Only 1.6% of women and 4.1% of men
said they do it for the money.
   United Group found that female entrepreneurs work an
average of 46.5 hours a week, 10 fewer than men. Unmarried
females work more hours than married women, while single men
put in fewer hours running their businesses than married men.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   LEGISLATIVE Information Network Corp. of Austin, Texas, is
developing a data bank enabling lobbyists and others to
search the texts of state-level legislative proposals. The
service will be accessible from personal computers and is to
begin operating this fall. Data initially will be available
from at least three states. . . . Almost half of
second-generation members of family businesses are
dissatisfied with their jobs, according to a Baylor
University survey that was reported in Family Business
magazine. Family-related conflicts were largely to blame.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Express Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AXP
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN EXPRESS Co. (New York) -- Daniel T. Henry,
formerly a partner in the New York financial services office
of accounting firm Ernst &amp; Young, was elected senior vice
president and comptroller of the travel, financial and
information-services company. Mr. Henry succeeds Michael
Monaco, who became acting chief financial officer in January.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   First Fidelity Bancorp
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FFB
</CO>
<LP>
   FIRST FIDELITY BANCORP (Lawrenceville, N.J.) -- Thomas H.
O'Brien Jr., 47 years old, and Harold A. McCleery, 42, were
named senior vice presidents, credit administration, at this
bank holding company. Previously, Mr. O'Brien was executive
vice president and chief credit policy officer at the
Chemical New Jersey Holdings Inc. unit of Chemical Banking
Corp., and Mr. McCleery was senior vice president, credit
policy, at Chemical Banking.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Doctors Order Significantly Fewer Tests
   When Aware of the Costs, Study Shows
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Doctors ordered significantly fewer medical tests when
made aware of the test costs, according to a study that
supports the growing belief that doctors overuse diagnostic
procedures.
   In an experiment at Indiana University School of Medicine
in Indianapolis, doctors who were alerted about test prices
ordered 14% fewer tests and generated bills that were 13%
lower than similar doctors for whom test charges weren't
flagged. The study also found that the reduced tests didn't
dilute the quality of care provided.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The study, published in this week's New England Journal of
Medicine, provides some of the strongest evidence to date
that many medical tests ordered by doctors are unnecessary
and that doctors generally aren't knowledgeable about their
costs.
   Some studies estimate that diagnostic procedures, from
relatively inexpensive laboratory analyses of blood and urine
to high-technology imaging tests that can run hundreds of
dollars each, account for about one-quarter of the nation's
$600 billion-a-year health bill. In recent years, the use of
diagnostic testing has soared, as doctors practice "defensive
medicine" to avoid malpractice suits.
   "There is a tradition in medicine dating back to when
little could be done for patients that you do as much as
possible, no matter what the cost," said Clement McDonald, an
internist who co-authored the study with William Tierney and
Michael Miller. "That's no longer true, especially now that
things cost so much. But doctors are given little help in
making choices about care."
   In the study, Dr. McDonald and his colleagues suggested a
way to help doctors cut back their reliance on tests. In the
experiment, 121 doctors who staffed Regenstrief Health
Center, an outpatient clinic associated with the university,
were divided into two groups. All doctors at the center order
tests via a computer workstation. But, for one group, the
price of a test flashed on the computer screen when the test
was ordered, while no price was posted for the others.
   In a 14-week period prior to the experiment -- when prices
weren't listed for either group -- the doctors ordered tests
at about the same rate. But during a 26-week period, the
group of doctors who could see the charges on the computer
screen decreased the tests' use. These doctors also generated
average test charges for each patient totaling about $7 less
than test charges produced by the other doctors.
   The study's authors said the reduction in tests, if
continued for a year at the same rate, would have saved the
health center $250,000.
   The researchers found that prior to the study, doctors
queried about test prices were wrong about 44% of the time.
Even those doctors alerted to test prices during the
experiment were unable to remember the prices about 42% of
the time when asked about them in a follow-up interview.
Indeed, the doctors who reduced their testing during the
experiment reverted to their previous high-use behavior when
test prices no longer were listed on their computer screens.
   "It appears that physicians may need to be continually
reminded of the charges for tests if they are to maintain
their cost consciousness," the authors wrote.
   Dr. McDonald said the researchers are now conducting a
broader experiment in which doctors are advised through a
computer screen about charges and other outcomes associated
with all sorts of procedures and orders they made for
hospitalized patients.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE WNEWS
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE Corp. (Reston, Va.) -- Thomas
Ludlow Ashley, president of the Association of Bank Holding
Companies and a former member of Congress; Woodward Kingman,
an investment management consultant and former president of
Government National Mortgage Association, or Ginnie Mae; and
George L. Argyros, president and chief executive officer of
Arnel Development Co., Costa Mesa, Calif., were named by
President Bush to the board of this government-sponsored,
publicly traded company, which operates a secondary market in
home loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Safety Agency Intensifies
   Probe of Hyundai Excels
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   C.HYU
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration intensified its investigation into alleged
steering-wheel vibration problems in 1987-1989 model Hyundai
Excels.
   In recent months, the agency and the manufacturer have
received almost 300 complaints about the budget cars, which
are made by Hyundai Motor Corp. of South Korea. Owners allege
that strong vibrations in the steering wheels make the cars
difficult to control at highway speeds. There have been
reports of two accidents and two injuries in connection with
the alleged defect.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The stepped-up inquiry, which covers 707,000 cars, is
known as an engineering analysis, the second of NHTSA's three
levels of investigation. The agency plans to conduct
additional tests of the cars and to analyze the two reported
accidents.
   The agency also said that it has begun a preliminary
evaluation -- its lowest level investigation -- into alleged
brake problems in 1986-1989 Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable
cars. Both are made by Ford Motor Co. The agency has received
two complaints alleging failure of brake disk hubs. About 1.2
million vehicles are covered by the inquiry. No accidents or
injuries have been reported.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   S WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SEARS, ROEBUCK &amp; Co. (Chicago) -- Russell S. Davis,
formerly chief financial officer of Campeau Corp., was named
senior vice president and chief financial officer of this
retail concern's Sears Merchandise Group unit. Mr. Davis, 54
years old, succeeds Jack Wirth, 60, who is retiring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Community National Bancorp
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CNBT
</CO>
<LP>
   COMMUNITY NATIONAL BANCORP (New York) -- Herbert Fisher,
chairman and chief executive officer of Jamesway Corp.,
Secaucus, N.J., was elected a director of this bank holding
company, increasing the board to seven.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Dayton Hudson Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS DH
</CO>
<LP>
   DAYTON HUDSON Corp. (Minneapolis) -- Roger A. Enrico,
president and chief executive officer of PepsiCo Inc.'s
PepsiCo Worldwide Beverages unit, was named a director of
this retailer, expanding board membership to 14.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   History of a Blank Check
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady yesterday boosted
estimates of the borrowings for the savings-and-loan bailout
to between $90 billion and $120 billion, up from the
Treasury's original $50 billion lowball estimate. Including
interest on these borrowings, costs of the disaster will hit
$300 billion and maybe even $500 billion, or $2,000 for every
American man, woman and child.
   Secretary Brady is not proposing any new program,
remember, he's just filling in the totals needed to make good
on government bank-deposit insurance, a blank check written
long ago. The various roots of the S&amp;L crisis reach back to
the Great Depression of the 1930s and the Great Inflation of
the 1970s. But to pick a moment when a blank check was
written, turn to the early morning of March 5, 1980. Deposit
insurance then stood at $40,000 an account, and a House
banking-deregulation bill contained no increase. The Senate
bill proposed an increase to $50,000. In the wee hours of the
morning, House Banking Chairman Fernand St Germain pushed
through a conference-committee "compromise" of $100,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It slipped through without any discussion," recalls
former Rep. Ron Paul, a Banking Committee member. "I'm told
everyone was so exhausted that they would have done anything
to get out of that room." The Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation begged Congress not to raise the coverage to
$100,000, but it passed as part of the overall bill with only
Mr. Paul and 12 other House Members opposed.
   A chief proponent of higher deposit insurance was the U.S.
League of Savings Institutions, the largest thrift-lobbying
group. One of its key lobbyists was James "Snake" Freeman. In
1987, a Justice Department probe focused on the cozy
relations between Rep. St Germain and Mr. Freeman, for
example dozens of meals at Washington's Prime Rib restaurant
on Mr. Freeman's credit card. In 1988, a Justice report was
finally released finding "substantial evidence of serious and
sustained misconduct" on Mr. St Germain's part. Mr. St
Germain went on to lose his re-election bid as his Rhode
Island district elected its first Republican in 50 years.
   The St Germain "compromise" allowed money brokers to
bundle large deposits together in lots of $100,000 and chase
the high interest rates offered by often-insolvent thrifts
that were trying to stay open by expanding. To pay these
rates, S&amp;Ls had to turn to high-return loans, permitted under
the 1982 Garn-St Germain bill. In a now-classic phrase, this
was the means of matching marginal lenders with marginal
borrowers. When the risky loans went bad, the S&amp;Ls couldn't
repay deposits, and the insurance stuck the government with
the tab, $300 billion to $500 billion.
   Many people warned that while deregulation was necessary,
it would not mix with deposit insurance. We ourselves missed
the importance of the $100,000 figure, but by the time of the
1982 bill warned, "As things stand now, deregulation under
guaranteed banking will give banks a competitive edge in
attracting funds from the public, while compounding the
opportunity for bank managements to behave imprudently." As
early as 1983, the FDIC told Congress that deposit insurance
should be reined in by forcing depositors to take a 10% to
15% "haircut" loss that would encourage some of them to
monitor their local S&amp;Ls. A 1984 regulatory task force set up
by Vice President George Bush made similar recommendations.
   Yet deposit insurance has remained politically
untouchable. In particular, the thrift industry and its
associated construction contractors reached into every
congressional district. The Jim Wright and Keating Five cases
have highlighted the extent to which political influence was
used to delay action on the S&amp;L mess and added immeasurably
to its costs. In its January 1989 thrift-bailout plan, the
Bush administration ducked the issue of deposit insurance; it
knew reform was necessary, but knew any such proposal would
mean delay in Congress, and feared that a nationwide run on
the S&amp;Ls was imminent. The issue was bucked to a Treasury
study due out in 1991.
   Happily, recognition of the issue is spreading. Henry
Gonzalez, the new House Banking Committee chairman who
pursued the Keating Five case, now says that reform of the
insurance system is the only real way to stop similar
scandals in the future. Budget Director Richard Darman warned
this month that off-budget liabilities like deposit insurance
are a serious threat to the economy and must be capped.
Former Senate Banking Committee Chairman William Proxmire
admitted recently there was "no defense" for Congress's
failure in the S&amp;L crisis.
   There are various ways to cut back deposit insurance:
reducing the amount per account to perhaps $50,000, insuring
perhaps only 85% of deposits or deposits over some small
amount, simply capping the amount outstanding, or even
turning to private deposit insurance, which has been
successful in the brokerage community.
   Specific proposals can be debated once the issue is
defined. But the first step of all is to get history
straight, to recognize that the huge bailout bill comes from
a blank check written in the dark of night.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   `Communist Dominoes Are Falling'
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   Ronald Reagan, in a commencement address Friday at
Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Let me tell you the basis of my optimism for our future.
What has made the United States great is that ours has been
an empire of ideals. The ideals of freedom, democracy, and a
belief in the remarkable potential of the individual. Power
isn't simply wealth or troops. Power is also spirit and
ideas. And these we have in abundance.
   The attitude of wanting to be the biggest and to go the
farthest and to get there first and to do the most good when
we arrived is part of our national character. Americans have
always been larger than life. We wanted to establish the best
government on Earth. We wanted to put a man on the moon. This
is the spirit we set loose. This is the passion that invented
revolutionary technologies and a culture young people
everywhere envy.
   And this is the attitude that has defeated communism. At
some dark, lonely moment during the last decade, a terrible
realization set in upon the leaders of the Soviet Union. They
realized that their system could not take them where the
United States and the rest of the free world was going.
   The West's economics and technologies were a powerful
booster blasting us into orbits the communist world could not
hope to reach. Our communications technology sailed over the
barbed wire and concrete walls, letting their citizens know
what democracy could offer, what free markets could provide.
Our computer technology left them bewildered and behind,
paper societies in an electronic age.
   I believe President Gorbachev realized the United States
and West were turbocharged for the future and pulling farther
and farther away. He could not slow down the rest of the
world; his only hope was to speed up change within the Soviet
Union.
   Gorbachev is grappling with historic and bitter ethnic
tensions where seething memories, not reason, prevail. He's
overwhelmed by an economy so defeated that food rots at the
sides of the fields because there's no transportation to
market. He faces a bureaucracy that for 70 years has
smothered every spark of innovation or initiative. I
genuinely hope my friend succeeds against the problems
arrayed against him.
   What must we do in these times of change and uncertainty?
We must simply do what we've always done -- remain true to
our ideals. And those are the ideals of freedom and
democracy.
   I wholeheartedly encourage the hopes of the Baltic peoples
who wish to be free to run their own countries. I celebrate
their bravery. The captive nations of Lithuania, Latvia and
Estonia were invaded by the Soviet Union. They have been held
against their will since 1940 when Hitler and Stalin made a
pact. Ladies and Gentlemen, no pact made by Hitler and Stalin
should prevail today. The Baltic countries and their peoples
should be free]
   Communist dominoes are falling all over the world. We must
continue to give communist dominoes a good push whenever and
wherever we can. There are still those that must fall-China,
North Korea, North Vietnam, North Yemen, and, of course,
Cuba. Cuba is next in democracy's sweep. And let me say
directly to Fidel Castro -- like Honecker in East Germany,
like Ceausescu in Romania, like Noriega in Panama, like all
the other has-been dictators of despair, you cannot fight
democracy's destiny. Fidel, you're finished]
   . . . We should not be timid in our embrace of democracy.
We should be as bold and brash in our democratic ideals as
ever in our history. The Golden Age of Freedom is near
because America has remained true to her ideals. This is not
the time to let our support for democracy wane.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southern's Addison
   Terms Awareness
   Of Son's Ties Small
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR SO GE
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   PANAMA CITY, Fla. -- Southern Co.'s beleaguered chief
executive officer, Edward L. Addison, said he had little
knowledge of his son's lucrative ties to the company's
pension fund.
   Mr. Addison, addressing the issue for the first time at
the Atlanta-based utility's annual meeting here, said he is
"truly sorry" about the affair, but insisted he had no role
in steering business to his 30-year-old son.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Speaking to an overflow crowd of more than 800
shareholders, Mr. Addison expressed regret that he couldn't
discuss the pension-fund controversy in detail. "It would
certainly help to express my side of the story . . . and get
rid of some of the pain and suffering to my family, but it is
not the responsible thing to do at this time."
   Mr. Addison similarly refused to discuss in detail the
other aspects of a two-year federal grand jury investigation
that is looking into a range of things, from the way in which
the company accounts for spare parts to illegal political
contributions. He cited "respect {for} the privacy of the
grand jury process" as his reason for not commenting on the
inquiry.
   Mr. Addison acknowledged that his son, Scott, received
commissions for pension-fund trading activity involving
Southern Co. while a broker at Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. in
Atlanta, but hastened to distance himself from that
arrangement, insisting, "I know very little of the factual
issues." He added that the "acts were not taken at my
direction."
   However, those familiar with the matter have said that the
elder Mr. Addison was told of the proposed arrangement
beforehand and said he would "like to see it done." Southern
Co. has added that the chief executive insisted that the
arrangement be done legally and at competitive costs.
   Federal investigators are examining, among other things,
the circumstances under which the younger Mr. Addison
received stock trading commissions from the pension fund,
individuals familiar with the investigation say.
   A federal grand jury in Atlanta has subpoenaed records
from a variety of Southern Co.'s pension-fund managers and
has called a number of witnesses to give testimony tied to
the pension-fund relationship. In addition, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation recently joined an investigation by
the U.S. Labor Department's labor-racketeering office of
certain pension-fund transactions, according to the
individuals familiar with the inquiry.
   They say federal investigators are also looking at several
of Southern Co.'s vendors that currently conduct some of
their stock trading through the younger Mr. Addison.
   Also at the meeting, Mr. Addison said clean-air
legislation pending in Congress would cost Southern $2.5
billion in capital expenditures. He said that cost would
require a roughly 8% rate increase to consumers in the year
2000, the peak year of expenditures.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Economic Malaise
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   My checking account's in pretty tough shape,
   With greater expenses than incomes;
   What it's obviously suffering from
   Is overwithdrawal symptoms.
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   ---
   Creativity Update
                                                                                                       

   Once artists became inspired by passion,
   Nature's beauty or romance,
   But today they reach their creative heights
   Just by seeing government grants.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Chicken Chain's Strategy Ruffles Franchisees' Feathers
   ---
   Operators Sue as Kentucky Fried
   Seeks New Venues for Its Outlets
   ----
   By Glenn Ruffenach
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   S PEP
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   A new marketing trend is turning a dispute between
Kentucky Fried Chicken Corp. and its franchisees into a
bitter fight.
   Kentucky Fried Chicken says its marketing idea is simple:
If a customer won't come to your restaurant, then take the
restaurant to the customer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The franchiser is considering placing outlets in two
Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. stores, and has held preliminary
discussions about similar ventures with other retailers as
well as with supermarkets. But some angry franchisees think
the simple idea could steal big business from their
stand-alone outlets.
   The board of the Association of Kentucky Fried Chicken
Franchisees, representing some 3,000 of the 3,600 franchised
outlets, recently voted to proceed with a lawsuit against the
parent company. Last November, the franchisees filed the suit
in federal court in Louisville, Ky., but held off serving the
company with the suit pending negotiations over the dispute.
   The litigation seeks to block a new franchise contract
that, some restaurant operators say, threatens their very
existence. Kentucky Fried Chicken, meanwhile, which has been
moving aggressively to modernize the chain and improve its
lackluster performance, says it has no intention of backing
down on its major demands.
   The battle highlights the continuing confrontation at many
older franchise systems between the parent company, which
often wants to overhaul and upgrade operations, and
franchisees, who sometimes resist attempts to tamper with
what they regard as a proven formula.
   The stakes are high in the restaurant industry, where
everyone from McDonald's to the corner pizzeria is scrambling
for customers. Sales at fast-food outlets are expected to
rise only 3% this year, according to the National Restaurant
Association, a trade group. That's about in line with 1989
figures, which themselves were the worst since 1980.
   Kentucky Fried Chicken, which was bought by PepsiCo Inc.
in 1986, is one of the nation's oldest fast-food chains and
has been the most anemic member of Pepsi's otherwise healthy
restaurant group, which includes Pizza Hut and Taco Bell.
Kentucky Fried Chicken's president and chief executive
officer, John M. Cranor III, says the provisions in the new
contract would allow the company to compete effectively in
the fast-food business well into the next century. Some
franchisees, however, question whether those same provisions
will put them out of business before the next century
arrives.
   At the heart of the controversy are moves by Kentucky
Fried Chicken and other fast-food chains to place outlets in
so-called nontraditional sites. With thousands of restaurants
already lining the streets of most towns and cities,
companies are looking at other locations, such as airports,
amusement parks and athletic stadiums, as future sites for
expansion.
   Kentucky Fried Chicken, for example, is working with
Cattleguard Inc., a Houston company that provides
food-service operations to several Sears stores, to test
chicken outlets in two of those stores.
   Such nontraditional sites are "where the industry is
evolving," says Michael G. Mueller, a restaurant analyst at
Montgomery Securities in San Francisco. "You can have a small
unit and still do a lot of business."
   That business, however, may come out of the cash registers
of existing outlets, say some Kentucky Fried Chicken
franchisees. John R. Neal, who operates 85 Kentucky Fried
Chicken outlets in the Southeast, says the franchisees are
particularly concerned about so-called institutional barriers
that the company might erect that would hurt their
businesses.
   Some airports, for instance, have contracts with companies
such as Marriott Corp. that provide for Marriott to be the
sole provider and franchiser of food services for the
airport. Such a contract establishes an "institutional
barrier" to other food companies that might want to set up
shop. What's to stop Kentucky Fried Chicken, Mr. Neal asks,
from setting up similar contracts with, say, supermarkets, in
which Kentucky Fried Chicken alone -- and not the franchisee
across the street -- would have the exclusive right to
provide Kentucky Fried Chicken to those stores?
   "When I'm trying to sell a bucket of chicken for $15.95,
how in the dickens can I compete with a Kroger that's selling
the same bucket of chicken for $9.99?" asks Mr. Neal,
pointing to the grocer's lower fixed costs. "That would be
devastating."
   Kentucky Fried Chicken says it is prepared to pay a 2%
"pass-through" royalty to franchisees that find themselves
competing with other Kentucky Fried Chicken outlets in their
own backyards. But Robert Peck, president of the franchise
association, questions the value of such payments. "If a
supermarket sells $200,000 {of Kentucky Fried Chicken
products} in a year, I get $4,000," he says. "But the
supermarket might cannibalize $100,000 to $150,000 of my
sales and put me to the point where I can't be a profitable
operation."
   The franchisees acknowledge that the company must search
for new ways to expand. And Kentucky Fried Chicken's new
management team under Mr. Cranor (he arrived in August 1989)
already has made progress in turning the embattled chain
around. In the first quarter, operating profits were up 37%
-- the same rate of growth as Pizza Hut.
   "It could get very ugly, but I think cooler heads will
prevail," says Mr. Neal, the franchisee. "The enemy is not
{Kentucky Fried Chicken}. It's the other restaurants out
there on the strip."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   Sci-Fi Channel Encounters a Hard Sell
   Due to Competition, Reregulation Threat
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BRT CCB
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mitchell Rubenstein must be wondering whether he's trapped
in a science-fiction movie, fighting forces beyond his
control.
   Just as the 36-year-old Florida lawyer embarked on the
ambitious start-up of a national cable network called the
Sci-Fi Channel, an intergalactic battle broke out over
regulation of the cable industry, threatening his well-laid
plans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To generate enough ad revenue to have a chance of
surviving, Mr. Rubenstein must sign up cable systems reaching
five million to seven million subscribers, or about 10% of
the cable universe, by the time the 24-hour channel begins
operating Dec. 31.
   That means persuading cable operators to give him a space
in already-crowded lineups. At the National Cable Television
Association trade show in Atlanta this week, he was competing
not only with dozens of established basic cable networks and
some recent start-ups that have major corporate backing, but
also with a host of other entrepreneurial newcomers, from the
Cowboy Channel to Celticvision, an Irish-American channel.
   But even those who like Mr. Rubenstein's concept have
other things on their minds. "I'd love to put the Sci-Fi
Channel on," says Marc Nathanson, chairman of Falcon Cable
Systems Co., based in Los Angeles, which reaches 800,000
subscribers. "My attitude is, put everything on -- a
science-fiction channel, a cowboy channel, an all-cartoon
channel.
   "But I'm very reluctant to add a preponderance of new
channels until I see what happens to rate regulation. What's
the incentive {to increase channel capacity} if rates are
going to be capped?"
   That attitude is common. Cable operators feel threatened
by the debate in Washington over reregulating the industry.
Reregulation has been discussed for some time, but when a key
bill was introduced in Congress last November, action
suddenly began to look more likely. That was bad timing for
Mr. Rubenstein, president of the Sci-Fi Channel, who was
about to start pitching the channel to cable operators.
Though the likelihood of tough new regulations appears to
have eased in recent weeks, many cable operators aren't
inclined to commit themselves to the capital investment
necessary to expand channel capacity until the issue is
resolved.
   But Mr. Rubenstein is undaunted. So far the Sci-Fi
Channel, based in Boca Raton, Fla., has signed up systems
serving about 1.5 million subscribers, mostly "ma and pa"
operations with fewer than 100,000 households each, and Mr.
Rubenstein says he's "right on schedule" in winning
subscribers. After this week's trade show, Mr. Rubenstein
projects that the channel will "easily surpass" the start-up
target range for subscribers and be "close to 20 million
within 24 months of going on the air." He adds: "Cable
operators know they're going to add channels -- a bigger
package is what adds value and cash flow."
   Without the clout that Time Warner Inc. had to back the
start-up of its Comedy Channel or Viacom Inc. had for its HA]
channel, Mr. Rubenstein has had to woo operators with unusual
incentives. "Charter affiliates" get the first two years of
the Sci-Fi Channel free -- no license fees. In addition,
charter operators get stock options in the channel, 1% for
each 500,000 subscribers. Even so, most operators are taking
a wait-and-see attitude.
   Many cable operators are awaiting a possible merger
between the Comedy Channel and HA] before deciding to add
either, and other new channels have to get in line behind
those. But Mr. Rubenstein says he thinks his service
ultimately will prevail. "Our idea is different," he says.
"We don't have to worry about keeping people laughing."
   Surprisingly, Mr. Rubenstein isn't an avid science-fiction
fan. But he is a methodical businessman. He and his wife and
longtime partner, Laurie S. Silvers, Sci-Fi's chief operating
officer, parlayed a $5,000 investment in a tiny cable system
in Indiana into roughly half-ownership of a cable operation
that sold early last year for almost $30 million. Around the
same time, he also bought a UHF TV station in Orlando, Fla.
The Sci-Fi Channel will either build a production facility in
the Orlando area or use existing space. Mr. Rubenstein
wouldn't comment, but it's said that the channel may use
studio space owned by Walt Disney Co. or MCA Inc. in
connection with their Florida movie-studio tours.
   After coming up with the idea for the channel in 1988, Mr.
Rubenstein commissioned a Gallup survey, which indicated that
a science-fiction channel would be "at least as popular" as
Nickelodeon and MTV for viewers ages 12 to 49. Mr. Rubenstein
likes to say that nine of the top 10 films of all time, by
box-office revenue, are in the science-fiction, fantasy or
horror genres (he includes "Ghostbusters," "Jaws" and the
Indiana Jones movies). And he's aware that there's a solid
base of fanatically loyal science-fiction fans.
   The narrow niche is what will lead to success, Mr.
Rubenstein believes. He points to the Lifetime channel, which
floundered until it targeted its programming to women. The
Gallup survey found that the average viewer of the Sci-Fi
Channel would be a male 26 1/2 years old. Poll in hand, Mr.
Rubenstein will try to sell ads for athletic shoes, cars and
high-tech goods.
   He's reserved satellite space and designed a logo. He's
also hired a cable broker, Waller Capital Corp., to help woo
cable systems, and an investment banker, Shearson Lehman
Hutton Inc., to raise capital. Mr. Rubenstein figures it will
cost about $20 million to launch the channel, plus another
$30 million in operating costs over the next three to four
years before the channel becomes profitable.
   Much of the expense will come from producing and acquiring
programming. Some obvious targets, such as Paramount
Communications Inc.'s two syndicated "Star Trek" series, are
simply too expensive for the Sci-Fi Channel at this stage.
Mr. Rubenstein says he's negotiating for rights to a number
of other old films and television series. He says he's
interested in the mid-1960s science-fiction anthology "The
Outer Limits," and also in many little-remembered series,
such as ABC's late-1960s "The Invaders" with Roy Thinnes.
   Horror will be a small part of Sci-Fi's programming, but
mainly late at night and even then more in the nature of old
Boris Karloff movies (many of which are in the public domain)
than current slasher films. A "Haunted House" game show for
kids is planned.
   The channel has announced a number of original programs --
most notably "Isaac Asimov's Universe," for which Mr. Asimov
has created a robot detective character -- and dramatizations
of science-fiction and horror stories through an arrangement
with Bertelsmann AG's Bantam Doubleday Dell Publishing Group
Inc.
   Other programs fall more into the lowcost talk-show genre,
such as "The Software Show" (computer news, mostly supplied
by software companies) and "The Comic Book Show" (in
conjunction with a big comic-book publisher). Mr. Rubenstein
also says he's exploring production partnerships with major
studios.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Rubenstein's main task is keeping the
channel in the public eye. In Atlanta, he held a news
conference to announce a tie-in with Omni magazine, in which
the companies will trade ads and Omni will sponsor Sci-Fi's
series on the U.S. space program. A public-relations firm is
issuing blizzards of news releases on the network, and Mr.
Rubenstein has bought ads in trade publications in an effort
to keep the industry buzzing. One of his early moves was to
sign up Mr. Asimov as an adviser and spokesman.
   On paper, the Sci-Fi Channel makes a certain amount of
sense. "Of all the concepts I've seen, this is the most
thoughtfully worked out," says cable analyst Larry Gerbrandt
of Paul Kagan Associates, Monterey, Calif. But Mr. Gerbrandt
cautions that the channel's timing is unfortunate, and
"they've got to hope for a break in the market."
   Still, he adds: "The industry is full of channels that
started out this way."
   ---
               Trying to Find Room on Cable
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

                                 SUBSCRIBERS
  NETWORK         LAUNCH DATE   (In millions) PROGRAMMING
                                                                                                       

 Comedy Channel   November 1989      7.3      Comedy
                                                                                                       

 Mizlou Sports
 News Network     February 1990      6        Sports news
                                                                                                       

 HA]: The TV
 Comedy Network   April 1990         5        Comedy
                                                                                                       

 International                                Foreign
 Channel          July 1990          -        language
                                                                                                       

                                              Live courtroom
 In Court         September 1990     -        proceedings
                                                                                                       

 Cowboy Channel   November 1990      -        Western
                                                                                                       

                                              Sciene fiction
                                              horror and
 Sci-Fi Channel   December 1990      -        fantasy
                                                                                                       

 Celticvision     Spring 1991        -        Irish-American
                                                                                                       

 Amer. Lawyer                                 Live courtroom
 Media Channel         *             -        proceedings
                                                                                                       

   *In development, launch date not determined
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Seagram Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS VO
</CO>
<LP>
   SEAGRAM Co. (Montreal) -- Jeananne K. Hauswald, 46 years
old, previously treasurer, was appointed vice president,
human resources, at this maker of spirits, wines and soft
drinks, succeeding Ronald P. Carzoli, 59, who is retiring.
Succeeding Ms. Hauswald is John R. Preston, 43, formerly
executive vice president, finance and administration, at the
Seagram Beverage Co. unit of Joseph E. Seagram &amp; Sons Inc.,
the U.S. subsidiary based in New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West German Auto Output
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- West Germany's production of automobiles slid
in April, signaling a flattening of the robust growth in car
demand of the past couple years.
   Output by West German auto manufacturers was down 8% in
the latest reporting month to 378,000 units from 412,926 a
year earlier, the German Auto Industry Association said.
April's decline in output occurred as exports of German autos
slackened.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Auto analysts had been expecting the European car market
to be soft this year, although West Germany had been
relatively resilient in the first quarter. The association
did note, however, that there was one less day of production
last month than in April 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Coke May Brew
   An Iced Coffee
   For the Morning
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   KO Z.NES MO JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Coca-Cola Co., looking for ways to win a bigger
share of the morning beverage market, is developing an
iced-coffee product, according to beverage industry
executives.
   It wasn't clear how close Coke may be to bringing the
coffee to market. The company is studying the product in
focus groups, an industry executive said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Coke declined to comment.
   For Coke, the new coffee underscores a burgeoning interest
in beverages outside the traditional soft-drink arena. In
March, Coke started selling PowerAde, a so-called isotonic
sports drink developed to combat Gatorade. Coke's heightened
new-product activity comes as growth in the regular soda
market slowed in the past year.
   In its bid for more of the pre-lunch market, Coke for the
past three years has been running a "Coke in the Morning" ad
campaign in certain areas. According to industry estimates,
coffee accounts for 47% of the morning beverage market,
followed by juice with 21%, milk at 17%, tea, 7% and soft
drinks, only 4%.
   Iced coffees generally are ready-to-drink coffees that are
chilled. Coke's development of such a product, the industry
executives added, may have been accelerated as a result of
the recent market test of Nescafe Mocha Cooler, made by one
of Coke's biggest global beverage competitors, Nestle Foods
Corp., a unit of Nestle S.A. in Vevey, Switzerland. Being
tested in several U.S. cities, the Nestle product -- a
combination of coffee, chocolate and milk -- is based on an
iced coffee the company introduced last year in the United
Kingdom. Nestle plans soon to distribute that product,
Nescafe Frappe, in France, Spain, Switzerland, West Germany,
Greece and Canada.
   General Foods USA is expected to launch its own iced
cappuccino next year, according to a beverage industry
observer. General Foods, owned by Philip Morris Cos.,
wouldn't comment.
   Coke has been studying iced coffee for years but
previously had come to the conclusion that there wasn't
sufficient demand for such a product in the U.S. In Japan, by
contrast, where ready-to-drink coffees -- both iced and hot
-- are a $3.7 billion industry, Coke has successfully sold
its Georgia Coffee brand for years. Georgia Coffee's strong
performance there, in fact, is one reason why Japan is
Coca-Cola's biggest profit center.
   But recent market research by Bevmark Inc. suggests the
time may be ripe for iced coffee here. Across a broad section
of socioeconomic and ethnic groups, consumers show a strong
acceptance of iced coffee as a substitute for hot coffee and
even, in some instances, for soft drinks, according to
studies by the Los Angeles beverage consulting company.
People still worry about the caffeine content in iced coffee,
the research showed. But consumers tended to prefer the
flavor of creamed and sweetened iced coffees over hot
coffees.
   Although iced coffee has tended to be more of a luncheon
beverage, industry consultants said, companies are aiming to
position it as a morning drink to take advantage of
consumers' increasing defection from hot coffee in the
morning to cold and sweet beverages.
   The current U.S. market for iced coffees is tiny, less
than $15 million a year, according to Beverage Marketing
Corp., a New York beverage consultant. The chilled products
represent the newest niche coffee marketers are experimenting
with to combat declining coffee consumption.
   Iced coffee could be one of the fastest-growing new
beverages in years, some marketers say. "It looks like a
product with tremendous potential to attract younger and
older consumers," said Tom Pirko, president of Bevmark.
   What products iced coffee will replace is a matter of
debate. It may hurt iced-tea sales, some beverage experts
said. "It won't cannibalize coffee, but will feed on soft
drinks and other cold drinks," said George Boecklin,
president of the National Coffee Association. If people want
a hot drink, he noted, they won't substitute an iced coffee
for it.
   But Michael Bellas, president of Beverage Marketing,
expects older, regular coffee drinkers to be the initial
target of the iced-coffee sales effort. Eventually, he said,
the marketing will be directed more at younger people,
thereby tapping into the soft-drink industry's most important
consumer group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   CCL GTE E
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Campania de Telefonos de Chile S.A., offering of American
depositary shares representing 100 million of its series A
common shares, via Salomon Brothers Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Carnival Cruise Lines Inc., offering of zero coupon
convertible subordinated notes, via Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. and
Salomon Brothers.
                                                                                                       

   GTE South Inc., a unit of GTE Corp., shelf offering of up
to $200 million of first mortgage bonds.
                                                                                                       

   Offshore Pipelines Inc., initial public offering of 3.6
million common shares, via Prudential-Bache Capital Funding
and Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Transco Energy Co., shelf offering of up to $400 million
of debt securities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Contel Sets Venture
   For Cellular Phone
   System in Hungary
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CTC EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Contel Cellular Inc. said it signed a
joint-venture agreement with Hungaria Telekom Kft. to design,
build and operate a national cellular telephone system in
Hungary.
   The venture will be owned 50% by Contel Cellular and 50%
by private Hungarian investors with Hungaria Telekom. Contel
Cellular, however, will have principal management, technical
and operational responsibility, and expects to name a
managing director and other top personnel soon. Contel
Cellular is 90%-owned by Contel Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Contel said the venture is strategically important. Contel
Corp. Chairman Charles Wohlstetter said the Hungarian system,
which uses the same bandwidth as a system in neighboring
Austria, "will provide Contel Cellular with a pre-eminent
entry into the Central European market."
   Contel said that it expects to provide service to at least
50,000 subscribers by 1993 and that it eventually could serve
the all of Hungary's 10.6 million citizens. The company
estimates costs will total about $35 million in the first
three years.
   The venture, which would be the first national cellular
system in Eastern Europe, needs approval by the Coordinating
Committee for Multilateral Export Controls, or Cocom, an
organization of the U.S. and 16 allies that coordinates
policy on exports to communist countries. The U.S. has
proposed easing Cocom rules to allow the export of all but
the most sophisticated telecommunications equipment, and the
liberalization is likely to be approved at a high-level Cocom
meeting in Paris next month.
   The Hungarian government gave the Contel-Hungaria Telekom
project an operating concession for 15 years, with a
five-year renewal option that expires in 2010. Contel said
the venture will construct the system beginning in Budapest,
where it faces competition from another venture involving U S
West Inc., a Denver-based regional Bell telephone company
that has a 49% stake in a venture that plans to develop a
cellular system in Budapest. The U S West project also is
subject to Cocom approval.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Contel shares closed at $27.75, down 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
BANKS (BNK)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   EXECUTIVE PAY IN EUROPE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Swiss executives make more than their counterparts in
other European countries, a new survey said.
   The survey of executive pay at European manufacturing
companies found that, on average, managing directors of
medium-sized Swiss concerns earn the equivalent of $230,475
before taxes and $144,000 after taxes. That's 28% more than
Europe's next best-paid managers, the West Germans; 31% more
than the Italians; and 42% more than the French. And it
dwarfs the lowly British pay rates of 68,500 ($115,970)
pretax and 44,627 net. Other executive pay scales show
similar national trends.
   The gaps stem partly from national differences in tax
rates and business climate. But as 1992 approaches, the
differentials are expected to diminish, according to the
study by nine European consulting companies.
   Tying executive pay to performance is another trend the
consultants see slowly spreading. In France, West Germany and
Switzerland, 80% to 90% of managing directors get some
compensation in the form of performance bonuses. The British
opt for share options, with 70% of top executives in large
companies participating in such plans.
                                                                                                       

   PINK SLIPS IN EAST GERMANY
                                                                                                       

   More than 100 general directors of East German
state-controlled companies have been relieved of their
duties, the East Berlin Economics Ministry said. The move
implemented a cabinet decision made on May 9. East Germany's
state-controlled conglomerates are being turned into
common-stock companies that will eventually be privatized as
part of the nation's efforts to convert its economy to
free-market principles.
                                                                                                       

   TAIWAN PROTECTS WILDLIFE
                                                                                                       

   Taiwan officials burned more than a ton of confiscated
ivory and 11 lion skins, altogether valued at an estimated
$3.7 million. "The government is determined to implement its
policy to protect wildlife and reverse the nation's
unfavorable image," an official of the Agriculture Council
said. In June, Taiwan passed a law imposing a maximum
three-year prison term for the import or sale of ivory and
wild animals.
                                                                                                       

   YUGOSLAVIAN SHUTDOWN
                                                                                                       

   Yugoslavia's only nuclear-power plant, at Krsko in
Slovenia, will be shut down by 1995, the Slovenian daily
Delor reported. The plant accounts for 20% of the power
generation in Slovenia and about 3% of Yugoslavia's
power-generating potential. The plan to close the plant,
which has been plagued by malfunctioning incidents, was
likely to be cheered by Slovenia's environmentalists, who
have been campaigning for a shutdown, and by neighboring
Austria, whose government repeatedly expressed concern about
the plant's safety.
                                                                                                       

   COCOM EASES RESTRICTIONS
                                                                                                       

   East and West German officials said the 17 member nations
of the Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export
Controls, or COCOM, agreed in principle to ease their
restrictions on most technology exports to East Germany.
However, a spokesman for the East German government said
members of COCOM, which was formed to restrict exports of
strategic items to communist-bloc nations, would still want
to maintain controls on weapons and other defense items.
                                                                                                       

   SWITZERLAND TO JOIN AID BANK
                                                                                                       

   The Swiss Federal Council decided Switzerland will join
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The new
institution, which is to have 42 members, will provide funds
to aid the emerging market economies of Eastern Europe.
Switzerland's share of the bank's total capital of 10 billion
European Currency Units ($12.26 billion) will be 2.28%.
                                                                                                       

   TOO RISQUE FOR THE FRENCH
                                                                                                       

   A poster campaign to persuade the French to use more
condoms has been dropped after it was deemed too shocking for
billboards.
   A government agency fighting AIDS said the $1.4 million
campaign, to be launched next week, would now appear only in
magazines and newspapers and on television. The prime
minister's office decided the French were not yet ready for
poster-size versions depicting a huge condom accompanied by
messages such as "72% of French people claim to be in love.
How many prove it?"
   Condoms "are still a tricky subject in France compared to
other countries," said Dominique Charvet of the
government-backed French Agency to Fight AIDS.
   Ms. Charvet concluded: "There's a big difference between
magazines and television screens, which are in the privacy of
people's homes, and big posters splashed around town."
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Soviet troops withdrawing from Czechoslovakia have left
behind environmental damage estimated at more than $125
million, the daily Lidova Demokracie of Prague reported. The
damage includes underground water reserves contaminated by
waste oil that in some places is several yards deep, the
paper said. . . . Arson caused heavy damage to a replica of
Columbus's ship Santa Maria in Barcelona. The tourist
attraction has been occupied several times by Catalan
separatists, who oppose celebrations planned for 1992 to
observe the 500th anniversary of Columbus's discovery of
America.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Unyielding Iraqi:
   Saddam Hussein Gains
   As a Leader of Arabs
   As Their Summit Nears
   ---
   Flare-Up in Israel May Play
   Into Hands of Man Known
   For Militancy, Brutality
   ---
   A Citizenry Afraid to Speak
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   BAGHDAD, Iraq -- It is news time on state-run television,
and the news, as usual, is Saddam Hussein.
   The lead item of the 25-minute program is a 15-minute
report of the Iraqi president examining his birthday
presents, many of which happen to be portraits of him.
Viewers have previously been treated to scenes of the
53-year-old leader's actual birthday celebration: Iraqis in
Babylonian garb prostrating themselves and chanting, "Your
candles, oh Saddam, are the torches of all the Arabs."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Such excesses might seem ripe for ridicule in these days
of crumbling dictatorships, but not in Iraq. Here, the
penalty for publicly insulting the president is death. Iraqis
have long known what the rest of the world is only beginning
to understand: Their president is powerful and potentially
very dangerous.
   He also is emerging as the Arab world's single most
influential leader, at a time of heightening regional
tension.
   Mr. Hussein's threat last month to "scorch half of Israel"
with poison gas if it attacks Iraq won wild applause among
Arabs who feel Israel hasn't responded to peaceful overtures.
"Saddam is giving them a chance to say, `We are rich, we are
strong, we are somebody,'" says a Middle East diplomat in
Baghdad.
   On Monday, Mr. Hussein will play host to an Arab summit
here called to oppose immigration of Soviet Jews to Israel
and to repudiate what Iraq calls "a Zionist-inspired
campaign" against Iraq's military buildup. The Middle East
turmoil following an Israeli man's massacre of Palestinians
Sunday is apt to inspire Mr. Hussein further. With the Arab
mood so inflamed, moderate Arab leaders could lose even more
ground to his militancy.
   Iraq is more than just a regional power. The world's
biggest arms buyer over the past five years, it now has about
a million men under arms and 700 combat aircraft, more than
Britain or France. It has a chemical arsenal matched only by
the two superpowers -- and one it isn't afraid to use, as
witness its recent gas attacks on Iranians and on its own
Kurdish minority.
   Iraq also has missiles that can deliver warheads to points
as far away as Tehran or Tel Aviv. Recent U.S. customs
seizures of nuclear triggers suggest as well an advanced
nuclear-arms program, although Baghdad denies this. With oil
reserves second only to Saudi Arabia's, Iraq has ample funds
to continue expanding its military might.
   All this is controlled by a leader who has demonstrated
ruthlessness in his eight-year war with Iran and repression
of his own people in peacetime. His reach extends beyond the
sun-baked boulevards of Baghdad. In London, an exiled Iraqi
dentist named Bayan al-Hakim always carries in his wallet a
dogeared card. In handwritten block letters, it tells how
Iraq has killed 23 members of his family, and gives the name
of a Scotland Yard detective to contact if he, too, is
murdered.
   In 1988, a gunman killed one of Mr. al-Hakim's cousins in
the lobby of the Khartoum Hilton in Sudan, then fled in an
Iraqi embassy car. Sudan asked Iraq to waive diplomatic
immunity to allow the suspect to be questioned, but Iraq
refused. (Earlier this year, the U.S. expelled an Iraqi
diplomat for allegedly plotting to kill an Iraqi dissident in
California.)
   The al-Hakims' troubles began in 1983 because one member
of the family was leading opposition to Iraq from inside
Iran. To pressure him, Iraq arrested almost all his male
relatives. According to Amnesty International, their ages
ranged from nine to 76. Some were executed; others remain in
jail. "Saddam is worse than Ceausescu," says Mr. al-Hakim.
"If he ever falls into the hands of the people, there won't
be film of his corpse like the Romanians showed, because
there won't be a fingernail left to photograph."
   Other Iraqis respond angrily to such criticism, crediting
the president with forging a nation from a chaos of competing
minorities, and with wisely using oil wealth for development.
"In the middle of the war, when every dinar was decisive for
survival, he established four new universities," says Awni
Shaaban, president of Tikrit University. Now, he says, Iraqis
are proud of Mr. Hussein's tough talk. "We were under
imperialist pressure from Ottomans, then British, and we've
been pushed around too much. We won't be dictated to on what
arms we can have."
   Nevertheless, comparisons with the late Romanian dictator
seem apt. To increase Iraq's war-depleted population, Mr.
Hussein bans contraception and prescribes the death penalty
for performing abortions. Like Mr. Ceausescu, Mr. Hussein has
plans for a grandiose new palace. And just as Mr. Ceausescu
demolished ethnic Hungarian villages, Mr. Hussein has
depopulated a swath of Kurdish land, because rebellious Kurds
supported Tehran in the war with Iran.
   Hussain Sinjari, a 27-year-old Kurdish rebel, still makes
risky illegal forays into Iraq, across the porous mountain
border. On his last trip, in December, he says the
devastation he saw was total. Villages had been bulldozed to
dust, mountain springs choked with cement. "I cried when I
saw the dead trees, the dry springs," says the tall, tough
rebel. "You can say that the people were traitors, but what
did the birds do, or the fruit trees?"
   Iraq says the Kurds have been resettled in modern towns
with superior services such as electricity, but the
government didn't respond to a reporter's repeated request to
visit one of the new settlements. "They are nothing but
concentration camps," contends Jalal Talabani, leader of one
of the main Kurdish resistance groups. "There are no schools
or mosques, and no one can leave without permission."
   From the highway, all that can be seen of the new towns is
a strip of fresh tar road leading to compact groups of
concrete-block buildings. Asking a driver to approach for a
closer look elicits a nervous refusal. "Afterwards, they
would interrogate me about who you were and why I took you
there," the driver says.
   In a 1977 speech, Mr. Hussein warned Iraqis to "beware of
the foreigner, for the latter is a pair of eyes and ears for
his country, and some of them are saboteurs of the
revolution. Therefore, accompanying foreigners or talking
with them in the absence of known controls is forbidden."
Iraqis still stick strictly to that prohibition. "I pushed a
baby carriage around the streets of Iraq for two years," says
a diplomat's wife. "Not once, ever, did anyone smile at my
baby or say so much as kootchy-kootchy-koo."
   Foreign journalists are particularly suspect. In March,
Iraq executed a British-based reporter, Farzad Bazoft, saying
his attempt to investigate an explosion at a military
facility was espionage. Two weeks ago, Iraq seized all the
film of a British Broadcasting Corp. crew, even though it had
come on government invitation and filmed under constant
supervision.
   Western publications aren't available, and the government
makes no bones about its total control of the press. On May
5, the Baghdad Observer quoted Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz
saying Mr. Hussein had "ordered that Iraqi media should halt
its anti-Syrian drive as a measure necessitated by the
summit." The usual abusive references to the Syrian
president, Hafez Assad, promptly vanished.
   So far, U.S. policy seems to put more weight on Iraq's oil
wealth than on a human rights record the State Department
terms "abysmal." The U.S. has urged Iraq and other Arab
states to moderate their rhetoric at next week's summit --
Iraq has published what it says is the text of such a U.S.
message. However, in January President Bush overrode a
congressional ban on Ex-Im Bank credit guarantees to Iraq.
   "We might want to be holier-than-thou, but this isn't a
country you can tell to go sit in a corner," says a U.S.
official. "The potential for tremendous conflict is here, and
we need to be talking."
   A Western businessman who knows the Iraqi president says
sanctions might only increase his excesses. "You can't
out-tough Saddam because he can always be more ruthless," he
says. "The only hope to moderate his position is to engage
him in a dialogue and expose him to Western thinking." But
the businessman laments that such a dialogue isn't easy:
"Everything you try to tell him, he says, `I know.'"
   To most Westerners, Mr. Hussein remains enigmatic. He
doesn't travel outside the Arab world, and longstanding
interview requests remain unanswered. The Iraqi president
grew up in poverty and political turmoil. Newly independent
Iraq was wracked by bloody coups. Iraqi King Faisal, just
before his death in 1933, wrote despairingly of his realm:
"There is still -- and I say this with a heart full of sorrow
-- no Iraqi people but unimaginable masses of human beings,
devoid of any patriotic idea . . ., prone to anarchy, and
perpetually ready to rise against any government whatever."
   Mr. Hussein was reared mainly by an uncle, Khairallah
Tulfah, who later became his father-in-law. A hint of his
childhood milieu can be gleaned from a leaflet authored by
Mr. Tulfah, entitled: "Three Whom God Should Not Have
Created: Persians, Jews and Flies." Persians, says the
pamphlet, are "criminals God created in the shape of humans,"
while Jews are a "mixture of the dirt and leftovers of
diverse peoples."
   Many Iraqis seem reluctant to talk about the president,
even to praise him. "We have many books and articles
explaining his personality, so what can I add?" asks Abdul
Latif Taha, governor of Tikrit, the president's home town. At
a museum, one exhibit features the president's school report
card. Asked which were his best and worst subjects, a guide
replies: "All are good." She refuses to translate the marks
for each subject.
   Yet the museum does provide some insights into Mr.
Hussein's early life and later rule. Swept up by the violent
politics of his times, he took part at age 22 in an attempt
to assassinate the prime minister, Abdul Karim Qassem. It
failed and, during the assassins' escape, Mr. Hussein pulled
his gun on his own gang to prevent their taking a badly
wounded comrade to a hospital. Shot in the leg himself, he
nevertheless managed to flee the country by motorbike
disguised in Bedouin robes.
   From the coffee shops of Cairo he continued to plot,
shocking some Egyptian acquaintances by his ruthless talk of
shooting all opponents. One museum exhibit shows the old
Optima typewriter on which he composed seditious leaflets. As
president, he has kept such dangerous machines under tight
control, requiring until recently that every typewriter be
licensed.
   Since the 1988 cease-fire with Iran, Mr. Hussein has said
he wants to liberalize Iraq, even talking of alternative
political parties. "Half of me is still with the opposition,"
he told a group of Arab lawyers in February. So far, reforms
have been limited. Travel abroad now is permitted, and
weather reports appear in the press (during the war, even the
previous day's temperature was a state secret). Military
checkpoints are fewer and less tense. And communications are
easing -- somewhat.
   "They told us we could import a certain brand of fax
machine," says a diplomat in Baghdad. "When we brought in a
different brand with the same specifications they told us it
wasn't acceptable. Probably they only know how to bug one
brand."
   Perhaps the most intriguing change is a decline in the
number of the huge portraits of the president that deck the
streets. Two years ago, it wasn't uncommon to see his
mustachioed visage beaming from all four corners of an
intersection. These days, the density has declined to a
portrait every few blocks. But hard information on even this
slight trend proves scarce.
   "We have many pictures of the president. We love the
president," replies an anxious Ministry of Information guide,
when asked about a portrait non-proliferation policy. A
senior government official also demurs. "I wouldn't know," he
says, gazing out the window of his downtown office. "I don't
go into the city much."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Another India-Pakistan War Is Building
   ---
   Nuclear Threat Looms Over
   Kashmir Confrontation
   ----
   By Anthony Spaeth
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MUZAFFARABAD, Pakistan -- This may be one of the world's
sleepiest capitals. It is the principal city of
Pakistan-controlled Azad, or Free, Kashmir. The picturesque
Kashmir of tourist brochures is the one India controls across
the heavily guarded border.
   But Muzaffarabad is having a small boom because of the
tension between India and Pakistan. Tourists, scared by the
violence in India's Kashmir, are coming here. And foreign
reporters, thrown out of India's Kashmir in January, are
flocking to Pakistan's portion to meet Kashmiri militants and
refugees from the south.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kashmir is a kind of looking-glass place: two areas
bearing similar names but controlled by two countries that
view things conversely and whose armies glare at each other
with identical postures of outrage. It is one of the world's
most dangerous flash points.
   India's Prime Minister Vishwanath Pratap Singh has told
his people to be "psychologically prepared" for war.
Pakistan's Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto has threatened a war
of 1,000 years.
   It is a potential nightmare for the whole globe. A war on
the subcontinent could go nuclear: India exploded its first
nuclear device in 1974; Pakistan is believed to have nuclear
weapons, too. Even conventional conflict could be brutal as
the animosity between the two countries has been stoked to
boiling point by historical passions and thorny current
problems.
   "There has been a steady escalation in tension and
preparation on both sides," says a diplomat in New Delhi. "We
have a great worry that they're going to get into a war that
neither side wants." The U.S. and the Soviet Union have made
it clear that the support they provided in the past -- the
U.S. on Pakistan's side, the Soviet Union on India's -- won't
be forthcoming this time.
   "Kashmir is a motherhood issue," says a diplomat in
Pakistan. "War could happen tomorrow. It could happen next
month. It could never happen." Says Zain Noorani, former
Pakistan foreign minister: "When you raise the war tempo to a
certain extent, anything can happen."
   India and Pakistan have fought two wars over Kashmir, in
1947 and 1965. The territory remains split along the
cease-fire line of 1965 (with alterations made after the
India-Pakistan war of 1971). A former princely state, Kashmir
was given a choice in 1947 to choose union with India, an
avowedly secular democracy, or Pakistan, which was founded in
the name of Islam. The maharajah of Kashmir, a Hindu leader
of a Moslem-majority population, equivocated until
Pakistan-backed troops invaded. He acceded to India.
   India considers this the supreme justification of the
secular state. So, along with its post-1947 terror of further
"mini-partitions," India is determined to maintain Kashmir.
   To Pakistan, Kashmir's accession to India was a betrayal
of Moslems by the Hindu maharajah and a violation of the
terms of partition that created an independent India and
Pakistan out of British India. Pakistan's long-term pledge:
liberation of the six million Kashmiris in India's Kashmir.
   India's tack was to incorporate Jammu and Kashmir state
into its democratic political system, with special
constitutional provisions of autonomy. Jammu is a
Hindu-majority territory adjacent to Kashmir. But politics
proved the undoing of India's Kashmir policy.
   In 1984, then-Prime Minister Indira Gandhi forced an
alliance between Kashmir's main political force, the National
Conference, and her Congress (I) Party. Kashmiris considered
it a sellout by the National Conference. Corruption spread, a
state-assembly election in 1987 was rigged, and almost
overnight, Kashmir's biggest political force collapsed. The
power vacuum was quickly filled by militants pressing for
independence.
   Last May, the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front, or JKLF,
the largest of as many as 26 groups, shut down the state in a
strike. Demonstrations and kidnappings by militants led to an
army crackdown in December that continues today. A hard-line
governor was brought in from New Delhi, and he dismissed the
elected state government in February. Foreign correspondents
were thrown out. Round-the-clock curfews made Kashmiris
prisoners in their homes for weeks.
   Indian journalists and foreign reporters who have made
surreptitious visits say India's Kashmir is under military
siege. Tourism, the largest industry, is dead. Violent army
raids against militants are frequent. The number of
casualties is hard to determine. The anti-Indian Kashmiri
militants claim that several thousand of their number have
been killed and more than 8,000 arrested. Anti-India
sentiment is raging.
   "Morally, India has lost Kashmir," says Shafiz Misgar, the
28-year-old leader of the JKLF's political wing. Mr. Misgar
is now in Free Kashmir, which he calls the "base camp" for
the freedom movement. He talks of friends beaten and
terrorized, of Kashmiri martyrs shot down by the Indian army.
He and his friends say there will be no peace in Kashmir
until they are allowed to vote for independence.
   "This isn't a territorial dispute," insists Raja Muzaffar
Khan, JKLF spokesman in Free Kashmir. "The tension in this
region cannot be defused until we are given the right of
self-determination."
   India vehemently disagrees, and the world has accepted its
stand that Kashmir is an Indian problem, or at most a
bilateral one. India applies the label Islamic fundamentalist
to the Kashmiri militants in the hope of alienating Western
countries from the militants' cause.
   India also contends that Pakistan started the crisis by
training and arming Kashmiri militants on Pakistan soil.
Although these accusations come from Prime Minister Singh
himself, India has yet to prove them. In a recent interview,
Foreign Minister I.K. Gujral conceded that his government has
no hard evidence.
   In Free Kashmir, the rebels complain they get nothing but
moral support from Pakistan. But the rebels concede that
Kashmiris were brought to Afghanistan in the mid-1980s for
training with the anti-Soviet mujahedeen, presumably by the
Pakistani military.
   On the big issues -- fundamentalism, independence,
alignment with Pakistan -- Kashmiris on both sides seem
confused. At the very least, burgeoning hatred for India has
made many Kashmiris pro-Pakistan and has boosted Islamic
jingoism.
   When the JKLF spokesman leaves the room after stating that
the fight is for Kashmiris' right to self-determination, his
followers let slip some significant remarks. "We hate the
Indian secularism," says one. Another calls for a
"theo-democratic state." A slogan on the wall of a
Muzaffarabad house reads: "Pray five times daily because this
is the only way through which we can get success."
   The Indian government's emphasis on Pakistan's alleged
training of militants and the rise of Islamic fundamentalism
in Kashmir has helped boost pro-war sentiments in India --
feelings never far below the surface in a country that has
defeated Pakistan in three wars in 43 years.
   In Pakistan, 40% of the people in a February poll said
they believed there was a strong chance of war, the highest
level in a tumultuous decade.
   Many military analysts believe that India would defeat
Pakistan in a conventional war of about two weeks. The Indian
military is convinced of its superiority, and there is a
rising feeling that another war could help finish off
Pakistan's military for good. But in Pakistan, local
politicians and journalists say, the military believes it has
gained strength from new equipment and that revenge for
previous defeats is long overdue.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Film: Flimsy Drama From David Hare
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   When you see Blair Brown in "Strapless" you'll think, "She
looks awful," which is exactly what the writer and director,
David Hare, wants you to think. Unfortunately, the rest of
Mr. Hare's intentions don't succeed nearly as well.
   He has laid the groundwork here for a psychological drama
that could have been interesting in the hands of someone with
a better grasp of the visual medium. However Mr. Hare, whose
main work has been for the stage, has managed to wring the
passion and wit out of his own words. Then he tries to give
the limp remains some shape by draping them on the artificial
symbol he constructed to give his work form.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ms. Brown plays a 40-year-old American doctor named
Lillian who has spent her adult life in England. She's
successful and still attractive, though Mr. Hare makes a
point of highlighting every sag and wrinkle to emphasize how
desperate for love she must be. Her work has absorbed her --
up to a point. She makes an effort not to involve herself too
deeply with her patients. She refuses to lead protests
against cutbacks even though her colleagues have asked her.
   On a trip to Europe, however, she meets a mysterious
stranger with soulful eyes and unusual directness. Bruno
Ganz, the Swiss actor who played the wistful angel in "Wings
of Desire," couldn't be better cast as this romantic,
unknowable character, Raymond. This Raymond has the
confidence and the clothes of someone very rich and
sophisticated, and the puppyish adoration of a teen-ager
working on his first big crush. Even Lillian, who has lived a
life of enforced calm, can't resist the combination.
   For once she acts impetuously, only to find, after she's
taken the dive, that Raymond's pool is empty. For him, the
courtship was the thing, so having made his conquest he's
moved on, and taken his mirage with him. Lillian becomes
obsessed with finding out out more about him so she can free
herself.
   There are many models for this kind of cat-and-mouse love
affair, in which a repressed person meets someone who allows
her to drop her inhibitions. Mr. Hare seems to have studied
none of the major classics in this genre. Ms. Brown's Lillian
shows no sign of hidden passion. She's like a modern
skyscraper; chilly, no matter what the natural temperature
might register. And Mr. Hare has managed to take the mystery
out of that born enigma, Mr. Ganz.
   As a counterpoint to uptight Lillian, Mr. Hare has brought
in her sister Amy (Bridget Fonda), a flibbertigibbet who
tries to design clothes but mostly hangs around in skimpy
clothes with men of skimpy character. Amy's main occupation
in life apparently has been to find an identity as far from
Lillian's "perfection" as possible. She makes no plans. In
the end the two sisters come to the same conclusion by
alternate routes -- to move forward, they must each be
independent.
   But Mr. Hare asks us to reach this conclusion with a most
peculiar symbol. Amy becomes pregnant and chooses to have her
child alone. Mr. Hare views Amy's pregnancy as the catalyst
for her creativity, and has her come up with a fashion
statement that is more statement than fashion: She designs a
strapless gown. Its freefloating bodice stands alone, the way
she and her sister and all their sisters should stand alone,
without support.
   Well, Lillian takes one look at this dress design and
suddenly she respects her sister and feels strong, strong
enough to take charge of the protest at the hospital and to
make a speech about English values. By the end the movie
feels like it's hanging pretty much like one of Amy's
designs, strapless.
   ---
   Somebody must have instructed the makers of "Bird on a
Wire" to figure out as many ways as possible to film Goldie
Hawn's thighs. She climbs up a ladder, giving her pink silk
skirt an opportunity to billow in crude homage to Marilyn
Monroe. She gets thrown to the floor of a speeding car so her
skirt can fly back to her waist. She swings on a rope across
a manmade ravine.
   However, none of this distracts from how thin and hungry
she looks. Ms. Hawn's thighs aren't the only attraction in
this equal-opportunity film. Mel Gibson's bodyparts also are
asked to do his acting for him. He bares his backside for his
fans, just after he's uttered one of the film's big laugh
lines: "I've been shot in the butt."
   There isn't an original or enjoyable moment in this
hulking action comedy. All the ingredients for everything
have been dumped together, ending up with the movie
equivalent of a corned beef hash carrot cake souffle. Mel and
Goldie giggle and laugh at nothing in particular while they
run from bad guys in motorcycles, cars and planes. There is a
strangely sentimental view of drug smuggling leashed to an
incomprehensible plot that includes corrupt FBI men, evil
druglords, the witness-protection program and a woman
veterinarian who looks like an android.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: Though doomed romanticism wasn't Mr. Hare's
point in "Strapless," maybe it should have been. The subject
was a favorite of David Lean's, before he started making
epics, and one of his best was "Summertime." Katharine
Hepburn is wonderfully poignant as an unmarried middleaged
woman on vacation in Venice, who falls in love with a
charming, unhappily married man.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Nomura Securities Hires
   Salomon Program Trader
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS J.NOM SB
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In another sign that Nomura Securities Co. is
making a major commitment to program trading worldwide, the
Japanese firm said it hired Michael Halem from Salomon
Brothers Inc., a unit of Salomon Inc.
   Program trading is the simultaneous, rapid-fire buying or
selling of 15 or more stocks. A disputed form of such
trading, stock-index arbitrage, involves large,
computer-assisted stock sales or purchases with offsetting
tradings in stock-index futures. The new post for Mr. Halem,
31 years old, follows Nomura's recent hiring of Joseph R.
Schmuckler, who resigned from a pivotal program trading post
at Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., a General Electric Co. unit, in
March to join Nomura.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While at Salomon, Mr. Halem helped develop that firm's
extensive program trading efforts in Japanese stock markets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Insists on Broad Trade Agreement
   Including Removal of Farm Subsidies
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA JAPAN LATAM EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush is taking a tough stance
toward current world trade negotiations, insisting that the
talks lead to a broad agreement that includes fundamental
change in agricultural trade.
   "Let me be blunt: to the United States, (having) no
agreement is better than a bad agreement," Mr. Bush said in a
short address at the White House mainly devoted to the talks.
The negotiations are being held under the international
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The president termed
the negotiations, known as the Uruguay Round because they
began in that country in 1986, "the last, best chance for the
world to enter the next century with free and fair trade for
all."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By saying that the U.S. will accept only a broad
agreement, Mr. Bush is raising the stakes in the talks, which
are scheduled for completion at the end of this year. There
has been speculation that the U.S. would settle for a modest
trade accord.
   In the talks, the U.S. and almost 100 other nations are
seeking to improve international trade rules. The president
reiterated that his "top trade priority for this year is an
ambitious, multilateral agreement" in the negotiations. If
successful, such an accord could extend GATT rules to cover
trade in goods and services valued at more than a trillion
dollars. Current GATT rules are estimated to cover as much as
two-thirds of world trade, which in 1988 totaled $3.5
trillion, according to a Bush administration trade economist.
   The president laid out six main U.S. goals in the talks,
including, first, to have nations remove trade barriers and
subsidies in agriculture. "There simply cannot be a
successful conclusion to the Uruguay Round without
fundamental agricultural reform," Mr. Bush said.
   The other goals include: removing tariffs, cutting
government subsidies to exporters, fully integrating
developing countries into the GATT system (currently, they
can seek exemption from some trade rules), developing rules
for such areas of trade as services, investment and
intellectual property; and devising swifter and more
effective means of resolving trade disputes.
   GATT's director general, Arthur Dunkel, is visiting
Washington this week to drum up U.S. support for the Uruguay
Round. In a meeting with reporters yesterday, he said that a
successful GATT round would "consolidate" the world economy
by ensuring that nations trade on the basis of market
principles. A failed round, he said, would represent a return
to "the history of the inter-war period," when trade was done
"on the basis of strategic alliances."
   Mr. Dunkel said he expects the 15 negotiating groups
tackling different aspects of international trade to have
outlines of proposed agreements by July. He said, "July is
the moment of truth."
   Despite concerns about the slow pace of the GATT talks,
Mr. Dunkel said, recent meetings of trade ministers provided
"strong confirmation" that there's a broad commitment to
completing the talks by the December deadline.
   The U.S., for its part, is "driving at full speed to
complete the round," Mr. Bush said in his address. But at the
same time, he noted, the U.S. is pursuing a range of other
trade initiatives, including "market-opening negotiations
with Japan," bilateral trade agreements with Canada and
Mexico and a dialogue with the Pacific Rim nations. He also
said Washington is striving to ensure the U.S. will have
access to Western Europe after countries there form an
integrated market in 1992.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Art Auction Scene: Japanese Buyers Go for Quality
   ----
   By Ann E. Berman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- Although Monopoly -- money prices paid by
Japanese collectors hogged the headlines, at the recent round
of art auctions here many works failed to pass "Go." Fueled
by Japanese money, sales of contemporary, impressionist and
modern art at Sotheby's and Christie's May 7-18 brought a
record total of $890 million (3% above November's sales), but
a number of other lots sold below expectations -- or didn't
sell at all.
   Problems were most evident in the area of contemporary
art, where both houses posted high unsold rates of around
35%. Later in the week, the evening impressionist sale at
Christie's was 30% unsold, while Sotheby's did better -- its
record $286 million evening sale was 83% sold. These uneven
results reflect no real market downturn, but some buyer
resistance to relentlessly bullish auction estimates.
Auction-house experts hastened to declare it all a healthy
sign: "Stabilization will be good for everyone," said David
Nash, head of fine arts at Sotheby's. "We think it's good for
the market not to continue to grow at the same rate."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nobody seemed to mind, however, when on May 15 at
Christie's, before a stunned capacity crowd, van Gogh's
"Portrait of Dr. Gachet" sold to Ryoei Saito, a 74-year-old
Japanese paper-processing magnate, for $82.5 million,
eclipsing the record price for any work of art at auction by
more than $28 million. Two nights later at Sotheby's, the
same buyer paid $78.1 million for Renoir's "Au Moulin de la
Galette." Mr. Saito's total outlay for the two works --
$160.6 million -- equals roughly the entire impressionist
sale week total at Christie's as recently as 1988.
   The van Gogh and Renoir paintings are considered to be in
a class by themselves, representing the highest possible
quality and desirability. The portrait of Dr. Gachet, van
Gogh's doctor and friend, was painted only weeks before the
artist took his own life in 1890, and seems to epitomize his
losing struggle with the pain of human existence. Consigned
by the estate of banker and philanthropist Siegfried
Kramarsky, the painting had been on loan to the Metropolitan
Museum since 1984. "Au Moulin de la Galette," an atmospheric
depiction of an open-air Parisian dance hall, was painted in
1876 and is one of the most famous images in impressionist
art. The seller was Mrs. John Hay (Jock) Whitney, who bought
it in 1929 for $165,000.
   The two records were a psychological shot in the arm for
market watchers concerned about the contemporary sales' poor
showing earlier in the week: The sale totals of May 7-8 at
Christie's were 20% below its low estimates, and at Sotheby's
the two-day total was a third below expectations. The sales
did set 20 artist's records, including $2.53 million paid by
a Japanese dealer for "Abstract Painting" by Ad Reinhardt at
Sotheby's (the old record was less than $400,000). Notable
failures included "Woman as Landscape" by Willem de Kooning,
unclaimed at Sotheby's at estimates of $9 million-$12
million.
   Observers agree that the more volatile contemporary market
has lost some of the speculator and investor money that
pushed up last season's prices, and caused this season's
consignors to demand damagingly high estimates and reserves.
"1955-D" by Clyfford Still, for example, sold at Christie's
for a record $1.1 million -- almost $2 million less than its
low estimate. As London dealer Leslie Waddington observes:
"Some of these estimates were 50% above retail prices. You
could buy better pictures at dealers in New York for less. In
fact, I did."
   After the contemporary sales, auction experts scurried to
salvage their real cash crop -- the big-ticket impressionist
and modern works coming next -- by suggesting to nervous
sellers that their more optimistic reserves be lowered. But
in some cases such bargaining was not possible: The price was
literally guaranteed. If a guaranteed work or collection
fails to bring the etched-in-stone minimum price, the auction
house pays anyway, effectively transferring ownership to
itself.
   After denouncing guarantees as ruinous to the neutrality
of the auction process, Christie's went ahead and gave one to
get five major paintings from the Robert Lehman Collection,
including "Autoportrait" by van Gogh, which sold comfortably
within estimates at $26.4 million to the unidentified
European collector who underbid "Dr. Gachet."
   Sotheby's guaranteed several works being "de-accessioned"
from the Art Institute of Chicago and the Guggenheim Museum.
The three exceptional Guggenheim pictures sold above
expectations for a total of $47.3 million. Tokyo chain-store
owner Masco Wanibuchi paid a new record price for Wassily
Kandinsky, $20.9 million for "Fugue." Other guaranteed
property, including some from the Art Institute, barely
limped into estimate ranges, leading to speculation that
Sotheby's might be out some money there.
   Prices were strong for property from the estate of Lydia
Winston Malbin, daughter of Detroit industrial architect
Albert Kahn, and a well-respected collector for many years.
The Malbin Collection, which had a May 16 evening sale all to
itself, was heavy on Italian futurism, a short-lived early
20th-century movement that produced a number of stunning
works of art. The collection, which included a number of
high-quality non-futurist work as well, brought $74.3 million
-- close to its projected high estimate. "The Stairway of
Farewells" by Giacomo Balla, circa 1908, was the top futurist
lot, selling to a European private collector at $4.4 million.
Few Americans and only one Japanese buyer participated, while
a large group of European bidders reclaimed rare works by
their countrymen, unavailable to the market for many decades.
   Those European buyers can thank the American tax code,
which since 1986 has drastically reduced the advantages of
giving art to public institutions. Traditional museum patrons
such as Malbin, Whitney, Kramarsky and Lehman increasingly
have gone the auction route, leaving American museums to
cannibalize their own collections to buy what is no longer
being given.
   The Guggenheim, for example, in a controversial decision,
sold the three early 20th-century paintings at Sotheby's to
raise funds for the acquisition of a minimalist art
collection. These auctions alone included tens of millions of
dollars of art deaccessioned from eight different museums,
and hundreds of million dollars more of might-have-beens that
never made it to public collections at all. Says Samuel
Sachs, director of the Detroit Institute of Arts: "I'm not
sure Congress knows or cares what irreparable damage is being
wreaked on American museums."
   But even if the tax laws are amended, Americans with
collections to donate may be rare. Forty percent of Sotheby's
impressionist lots went to Japanese buyers, who accounted for
more than 50% of the dollar value of both impressionist
sales. "My Japanese clientele has gone up 80%," says London
dealer Thomas Gibson. "None of us realizes how vast the
Japanese market is." Maybe not, but we began to get the
picture when a hitherto unknown Tokyo businessman spends
$160.6 million on two paintings in a total of eight minutes.
   Tracking Japanese buying patterns obviously is key, and
auction observers see some changes: Unlike the last time
around, Renoirs and Pissarros of lesser interest and inflated
estimates went unsold. Japanese bidders pursued
better-quality impressionist material, while continuing to
exhibit a growing interest in works of the 20th century.
Maseo Wanabuchi, for example, bought the top contemporary lot
at Christie's -- paying a record $6.05 million for "The Kiss"
by Roy Lichtenstein. "The number of Japanese buying
indifferent pictures has shrunk," says New York dealer
Richard Feigen. "They have become more sophisticated."
   With the powerful Japanese learning fast, and buyers with
more limited resources already balking at some over-ambitious
estimates, Christie's President Christopher Burge
acknowledges that "average pictures have been struggling."
Quality once again is the name of the game: Knowing how to
get it is a pre-requisite for successful play, and that takes
time, work, dedication and talent . . . or $82.5 million,
whichever comes first.
   ---
   Ms. Berman is a free-lance writer in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Air-Fare War
   Could End Up
   Hurting United
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL AMR NWA U PN DAL MDW TWA TEX
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   An air-fare war spread rapidly across the country
yesterday, and industry analysts said it might hurt the
carrier that started it, UAL Corp.'s United Airlines.
   Major carriers, including AMR Corp.'s American Airlines,
USAir Group Inc.'s USAir, NWA Inc.'s Northwest Airlines, Pan
Am Corp.'s Pan American World Airways, Delta Air Lines and
Midway Airlines said they are matching a surprise fare cut
announced by Trans World Airlines late Tuesday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But American and Pan Am said they don't intend to honor
$35 discount coupons that United has been advertising widely
since Monday. TWA said it won't honor the coupons on its
newly discounted fares. To stay competitive, airlines often
accept a rival's coupon. United's coupon is valid for the
discount on a round-trip fare of $175 or more.
   United, as architect of the discount coupons, may have
outsmarted itself. As travelers can use the coupons to cut
prices of already reduced fares, analysts believe United,
which also said it is matching TWA's fare cuts, might be
forced to fly people for less than it ever anticipated.
   Though some of the other carriers said they will accept
the coupons, United is still most likely to redeem the bulk
of them. The airline blitzed cities with full-page
advertisements reading: "Tear out, then take off."
   "The other airlines can really stick it to United," Rick
Boubelik, former staff vice president, revenue development,
at Braniff Inc., said. "United will have the biggest exposure
of potential revenue loss during the peak season. They
shouldn't be playing these games during the summer." United
declined to comment on the financial effects of the fare
discounting.
   TWA said its fare cuts were triggered by United's coupon
promotion. But United claimed it didn't instigate the battle.
Instead, it pointed the finger at direct-mail campaigns by
rivals. "We were responding to the distribution of millions
of coupons by our competitors," a United spokesman said.
   Among those, New York-based Citicorp, a banking giant, has
been mailing a promotion in which credit-card holders get
coupons that give $25 off the price of a ticket or a free
companion ticket on American Airlines, one of United's
fiercest domestic rivals.
   Other carriers such as Midway, TWA and Texas Air Corp.'s
Continental Airlines unit are hyping similar marketing
tie-ins.
   It is difficult to estimate how many mailings have been
issued in recent weeks and how deep the discounts are that
they offer. But even if they are widespread, such promotions
have long been a mainstay in the industry, and it isn't clear
whether United overreacted to them.
   For consumers bruised by high air fares, the United coupon
offer is attractive. The $35 discount is valid for tickets
purchased through Aug. 31 and for travel through Dec. 14.
Aimed at vacation travelers, the coupons can only be used for
fares purchased at least seven days before departure.
   United's exposure might be lessened slightly, because its
ad campaign was short-lived. The company said the campaign
ended yesterday, after only three days. Fliers aren't allowed
to use photocopies of the coupons. The United spokesman
asserted the campaign wasn't cut shorter than planned.
   TWA's fare cuts are a quick hit, as well. Tickets have to
be purchased by June 7, though they also are good for travel
through Dec. 14. They require seven days advance purchase,
and have other restrictions that make the fares attractive
mostly to vacationers.
   The discounts are steeper than initially believed. For
example, the least expensive round-trip fare between Dallas
and Los Angeles plunged 46% to $198 from $364, and could be
reduced further to $163 using United's coupon, bringing the
saving to 55%.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
UAL shares closed at $153.25, up $1.75.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Vehicle Output Up
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's production of cars, trucks and buses in
April increased 3.2% from a year earlier to 1,127,000 units,
a record for the month, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers
Association said.
   In March, production dropped 2.8% from the year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The association said motor vehicle sales in recent months
have been supported by continuing strong domestic demand.
   The association said domestic sales of motor vehicles in
April rose 7.7% year to year, and predicted export figures,
to be released later in May, will show a roughly 18% decline
from a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A Driver at Indy 500
   Hustles for Money
   To Chase His Dream
   ---
   Deal Maker Bettenhausen
   Trades Ads for Golf Clubs
   And Finds a Free Lunch
   ----
   By John Koten
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   INDIANAPOLIS -- The big-name drivers in this weekend's
Indianapolis 500 get big-time money from big-league sponsors
like Marlboro and Budweiser. Then there's Tony Bettenhausen.
   He will sport one sticker for the Union Jack Pub, which
agreed to provide lunches for his crew, and two for Ping,
which gave him a set of golf clubs. His main sponsor is Amax
Inc., a coal and metals company that not only got its name on
his car, but a pile of coal prominently displayed in his
racing garage.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bettenhausen, a balding 38-year-old, is unlikely to
win Sunday, but thanks to a lot of aggressive salesmanship,
at least he will have the thrill of competing in the world's
most famous motor race. It wasn't easy. The first heat in the
Indy 500 is the race for sponsorship money, and even before
turning a lap in his No. 16 fluorescent red and white Lola
racer, Mr. Bettenhausen had to spend nearly a year scraping
together $400,000 to finance his effort. No angle went
untried: At one point, his wife, Shirley, appeared in an ad
for Kroger supermarkets for $1 and some steaks.
   There has always been a disparity between the top cats and
the underdogs in racing, but the gulf has widened as more
money has flowed into the sport. Everyone wants to back the
winner, so the elite teams get a disproportionate share while
middle-of-the-pack mavericks like Mr. Bettenhausen struggle
to get by. One top team, Penske Racing Inc., which will spend
up to $3 million on each of its entries, recently signed a
two-year, $30 million deal with Philip Morris to promote
Marlboro. "It's a brutal deal," says Mr. Bettenhausen.
"People will go to your sponsor and ask, `Why are you funding
that loser?'"
   Still, Mr. Bettenhausen's David vs. Goliath struggles have
made him something of a local hero here in his hometown.
"He's our version of Rocky," says Tom Binford, the official
race steward and a former chairman of Indiana National Bank,
during an advertising club luncheon in Mr. Bettenhausen's
honor.
   Mr. Bettenhausen comes from an oldline,
chew-nails-and-spit-rust auto racing family. His father was a
legendary driver who started taking young Tony to
Indianapolis at age six. A few years later, Melvin Eugene
"Tony" Bettenhausen was killed on the main straightaway while
testing a race car for a friend. A brother-in-law also died
in a crash, and Tony's brother, Merle, lost an arm. In 1987,
a tire flew off Tony's car and killed an Indy spectator.
Another brother, Gary, has only partial use of his left arm
because of an accident, but he will also start the race.
Their mother, Valerie, refuses to watch the race, even on
television.
   "Would the Bettenhausens like to get even with this track?
The answer is yes," says Tony. "I plan to keep trying until I
can't pay my bills anymore."
   Though he has been racing actively since 1972, Mr.
Bettenhausen has never won a major event. His best finish in
eight tries at Indianapolis was seventh. Other drivers say he
has talent, but has never been able to afford a fully
competitive set of wheels. The conventional wisdom is that
the driver accounts for about 15% of the outcome of an Indy
race; the car, 85%.
   Last year, he didn't even make the race. His Cosworth
engine turned out to be a dud, and he missed qualifying by
one-half mile an hour. On race day, when the band began
playing the traditional "Back Home Again in Indiana," he
burst into tears and left the grandstand.
   After missing that race, Mr. Bettenhausen's main backer at
the time -- Federal Truck Driving School in Indianapolis --
said it didn't want to pay for another major effort. Over the
years, Mr. Bettenhausen has made numerous overtures to
companies like Coca-Cola, General Foods, Procter &amp; Gamble and
Lever Brothers, but all of them turned him down. So Mr.
Bettenhausen turned to Amax, which employs one of Mr.
Bettenhausen's crew members in an Indiana mine.
   Amax agreed to come up with half of the $651,000 that Mr.
Bettenhausen estimated he needed to spend on this year's
race. Three other sponsors chipped in another $90,000. To
help make up for the shortfall, he elected to buy stock-block
engines from Buick, which cost half as much as the $100,000
custom-made Cosworth and Chevrolet motors the top teams are
using. He also bought a one-year-old Lola for $100,000
instead of the $175,000 he hoped to spend on a second-hand
car owned by Penske Racing.
   Most of his crew members work without pay. The three
full-time employees make a combined $57,500 a year. Mr.
Bettenhausen himself, in his best year, took home about
$80,000. In leaner years, his earnings have barely exceeded
$30,000 -- for a job that often places him a hairbreadth away
from flaming disaster.
   To help make ends meet, he is constantly making deals. He
agreed to let a local radio station put a decal on his car in
return for plugging his sponsors. The decision to put a Ping
golf-club sticker on his car was partly motivated by the hope
that the manufacturer would enjoy seeing its name on
television and give him some money next year.
   For Amax, Mr. Bettenhausen agreed not only to emblazon its
logo on his car but also to make personal appearances at
company events. When an ABC-TV crew burst into his garage to
do a segment on a new rule affecting the design of the car,
he quickly slapped two Amax stickers on the part of the racer
they would be filming.
   And he worked a deal with speedway officials to get his
trailer truck, with the Amax logo, positioned in front of all
the others in the infield. "Penske Racing has four beautiful
trucks," he says, "but you can't see them because mine is in
the way."
   But the bills continue to flood into his small garage on
Gasoline Alley, decorated with Amax banners and the customary
bumper stickers: "The More I Know About Women, the More I
Like About Race Cars" and "Honk If You've Seen Elvis Lately."
On one desk, there's a $6,621.09 invoice for an engine
overhaul, a $390 dry-cleaning bill for his racing suit and
$240 tab for X-rays of racing parts. Mr. Bettenhausen's one
big splurge this year was a new $300 racing helmet with
special vents that keep the air flow from trying to suck it
off his head.
   His precarious finances prompt crew members to quip during
a recent dinner about how little he would leave behind if he
was killed in a crash. "You could will me your new golf
clubs," offers crew chief Rick Duman. At the dinner, Mr.
Bettenhausen tells the crew that unless the team finishes
seventh or better in the race, the prize money won't cover
their remaining expenses. "Let's knock on wood that we'll do
well," he says, hitting himself a few times in the head.
   In fact, he has already attracted much attention this
year. By skipping other races and practicing here in March
and April, he became one of the few drivers of older cars to
do well this month.
   The older models are handicapped by a new rule requiring
something called a diffuser, which restricts the amount of
air flow under the car. New cars are designed to maximize
aerodynamic shape with the diffuser in place, but the older
cars aren't. Many became unstable crates with the diffuser
added. There have been 13 crashes at the speedway this month
as a result.
   Mr. Bettenhausen started practicing early enough to figure
out out how to make his car handle well. He certainly
couldn't afford to crash. With enough money for only one car,
a wreck not only would have knocked him out of the race but
also could have bankrupted his company. "One mistake and
we're out of business," he says.
   The moment of truth came on May 13, the first day of
qualifying.
   Though the speeds he had been posting during practice gave
him confidence he would make the race this year, he couldn't
be certain until he completed his four qualifying laps. Race
cars are so sensitive that even a quarter-turn on an
adjusting screw can make a car lightning fast or slug slow.
Outside temperature and barometric pressure can also affect
performance.
   He drove flat out. His average speed was 218.4 miles an
hour, the ninth best for the day and good enough for a
starting position in the fifth row of Sunday's race. When he
returned to the pits, his crew was already celebrating as if
they had won the actual race.
   "We beat out a bunch of teams that have
multimillion-dollar budgets," he says. "Maybe Tony
Bettenhausen is finally starting to make his mark."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oversight Panel
   Of FASB Changes
   Rules Procedures
   ----
   By Daniel Machalaba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- An oversight body of the Financial Accounting
Standards Board made it more difficult for the FASB to issue
accounting-rule pronouncements.
   Heeding criticism from businesses that some FASB
rule-makings were overly complex and costly, the oversight
group boosted voting approval requirements for the
seven-member rule-making body to 5-to-2. Currently, the FASB,
the chief rule-making body for accountants, requires that a
simple majority approve its pronouncements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some businesses applauded the new voting requirements,
which "give the standard-setting process more credibility,"
said Tom Jones, executive vice president of Citicorp. "It was
hard for me to say accounting principles were generally
accepted if they were passed by a bare 4-to-3 majority."
   But it isn't clear that the changes will make some FASB
decisions more acceptable. The new voting requirements are
scheduled to go into effect Jan. 1, after the FASB is
expected to finish work on a controversial proposal that
would force companies to accrue or set up a reserve for
future medical benefits of retirees.
   The FASB also plans to reconsider controversial standards
it set several years ago that account for
corporate-income-tax expenses. "We have four people in favor
of the changes," said Dennis R. Beresford, chairman of the
FASB, who opposed the tighter voting approval requirements.
"Now that we will have to get at least five favorable votes
to make changes, it's not clear we'll have the votes."
   He said the new FASB voting requirements "may actually
work against" the business community on some issues.
   William Gladstone, co-chief executive officer of Ernst &amp;
Young, said the voting-requirement change was made "with a
long-term view." Mr. Gladstone, a trustee of the Financial
Accounting Foundation, the board's oversight body, added that
"there wasn't even a hint of anyone trying to get this voting
rule in time to stop or affect anything the FASB board is
doing." The Financial Accounting Foundation's trustees
approved the new voting standards by a vote of 11 to 5.
   About 15% of the pronouncements made by the FASB since it
was founded in 1973 were passed by a 4-to-3 vote. But such
close votes have centered on some of the most controversial
issues.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Prime Motor Inns
   To Sell 65% Stake
   In Franchise Systems
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PDQ MNR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FAIRFIELD, N.J. -- Prime Motor Inns Inc. said it agreed to
sell a 65% stake in its Ramada and Howard Johnson franchise
systems to an investment partnership.
   The agreement calls for Prime to retain roughly a 35%
equity stake in a joint venture consisting of 490 Ramada
locations and 430 Howard Johnson locations. The joint venture
will be managed by the investment partnership, Blackstone
Capital Partners L.P., an affiliate of the Blackstone Group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Prime, one of the largest U.S. hotel companies, is
retaining its AmeriSuites and Wellesley Inns chains and its
Rodeway Inns international franchise system.
   Prime also said it had signed a confidentiality agreement
related to the Ramada and Howard Johnson franchises with
Manor Care Inc., the Silver Spring, Md.-based franchiser of
rival Quality Inns hotels. When Prime first announced its
accord with Blackstone earlier this month, Manor Care made
public a letter to Prime indicating interest in buying the
two franchises without making a formal offer.
   Prime said its agreement with Blackstone allows Prime's
board to entertain other offers made before the transaction
with Blackstone closes, if Blackstone is paid certain
unspecified fees. It isn't clear when the transaction,
subject to certain conditions, is expected to close.
   Under the agreement with Blackstone, Prime will receive
about $140 million, including $133 million in cash and $7
million in receivables, plus other consideration which Prime
didn't outline. The company previously valued the total
transaction at about $200 million, including about $60
million in notes.
   An official recently said Prime had paid down about $40
million of its $320 million bank debt, and that proceeds from
the Blackstone accord would be used to pay half the remaining
$280 million.
   Manor Care Inc. couldn't be reached for comment on the
confidentiality agreement it signed with Prime Motor Inns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Unfavored People
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The current interest in President Bush's likely decision
to extend most-favored-nation trading status for China draws
attention to a place and problem that many people would just
as soon forget -- Hong Kong. Come 1997, this flourishing
island of people is scheduled to disappear into the maw of
the Chinese Communists, under the terms of an agreement with
Britain. It of course will be acutely embarrassing to the
free world and especially Britain if Hong Kong's worst fears
come to pass.
   So it's good to see Hong Kong's governor, Sir David
Wilson, speak up on behalf of the Crown Colony as eloquently
as he did in an address Monday before the Asia Society in New
York. Sir David concisely summed up some of the benefits of
trade, not least with China. He argued well that America
should understand how a decision not to renew MFN trading
status for China would hurt Hong Kong's economy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It would have been even better, however, had Sir David
begun standing up for Hong Kong's interests about three years
ago, when he first arrived at Queen's Pier to take up the
office of governor.
   In focusing on trade Sir David makes the crucial point
that free markets don't last long without accompanying
political freedoms. He mentions that the 1984 Sino-British
Joint Declaration "laid down clear policies for the
continuation of Hong Kong's existing systems, institutions,
rights and freedoms, for 50 years beyond 1997 and for the
administration of Hong Kong by Hong Kong people."
   What Sir David doesn't mention is precisely how those Hong
Kong people will be selected to run the place. It won't
exactly be democratic. Though he speaks with apparent pride
of the direct elections due to be held next year for the
first time, he doesn't mention that this will apply to only
20 out of 60 seats in the legislature. Or that Hong Kong's
chief executive -- the person who will step into Sir David's
shoes -- will be subject to approval by Beijing.
   The Joint Declaration promised specifically that Hong
Kong's legislature was to be "constituted by elections" to
help provide a "high degree of autonomy" after the 1997
takeover by China. The idea was to provide some insulation
against China's communist tryanny, by letting Hong Kong's
people choose legislators who would answer first to Hong
Kong, not to Beijing.
   To get a system of representative government up and
running, with even a prayer of survival, it was clearly
necessary for Britain to lead the way. Instead, Britain has
accepted its cue from China, and held any democratic
development to a pathetic minimum.
   There have been no full elections, not even a referendum
on the issue. Neither has there been a referendum on China's
Basic Law that is to govern Hong Kong after 1997. There has
been, in sum, no significant amelioration of the despotic
powers held by the colonial government -- which in the hands
of British democrats fortunately have remained benign. Under
China, such good fortune looks so unlikely that, as Sir David
noted, 42,000 Hong Kong people emigrated last year.
   It's possible, of course, that the next seven years will
see a democratic revolution in China, which would preserve
Hong Kong's freedoms. But it seems reckless for so prudent a
man as David Wilson to gamble the future of Hong Kong's six
million people on such a long shot. Somehow it would seem to
us far less reckless, even at this late date, to go ahead
with full elections in the colony.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Crisis
   Is Hurting Rates,
   Finance Chief Says
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Finance Minister Michael Wilson said Canada's
bitter constitutional debate may have added about 100 basis
points, or one percentage point, to Canadian short-term
interest rates and warned that the political crisis is
scaring off foreign investors.
   Mr. Wilson said he "couldn't put a number" on the impact
of the political debate on short-term rates but didn't
dispute an analyst's estimate of one percentage point.
"Clearly, it's something" like that, Mr. Wilson said.
"Interest rates are somewhat higher than they should be
because" of political uncertainty, he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As reported, a package of constitutional amendments called
the Meech Lake accord must be ratified by all 10 Canadian
provincial legislatures by June 23 or the amendments die. So
far, three provinces are refusing to ratify the accord as
written. The possible failure of the Meech Lake accord has
revived talk of independence in the province of Quebec. The
resignation of a senior federal cabinet minister from Quebec
over the Meech Lake impasse rocked Canadian financial markets
Tuesday.
   Yesterday, Canadian markets recovered somewhat with the
Canadian dollar closing in Toronto at 84.45 U.S. cents, up
0.30 U.S. cent. The yield on Canadian three-month treasury
bills was practically unchanged in late trading at 13.75%.
   "There is an economic element to the Meech Lake debate,"
Mr. Wilson said after a speech here. "I think that it's
important that people realize that this whole Meech Lake
discussion isn't just a constitution or political matter;
it's also an economic matter and it can effect the cost of
money {and} investment decisions," Mr. Wilson said. He added:
"Investment opportunities are being lost by some people
because of the uncertainty."
   The government's policy of moderating the rise or fall of
the Canadian unit without setting a target value remains
unchanged, Mr. Wilson said. But he indicated that the
government would move quickly to halt a run on the Canadian
dollar.
   "We have a strong reserve position and I think we have
been able to accommodate these {market pressures in the
past, and we'll be able to accommodate any pressures in the
future," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   CBS Comes Close
   To Topping NBC
   In May `Sweeps'
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB GE CBS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The television industry's May "sweeps" ratings
period concluded last night with a surprise ending that would
rival a Hollywood script. CBS, the beleaguered last-place
network, came close to finishing No. 1 for the month, while
powerhouse NBC won -- but lost 18% of its audience from the
same period a year earlier.
   National Broadcasting Co. won the May sweeps by the
narrowest margin in years, attracting 12% of U.S. homes with
TV sets each night, according to A.C. Nielsen Co. CBS, mired
in the ratings basement for three years, ran a surprisingly
close second, thanks to scheduling gimmicks and one-time
specials, drawing 11.8% of homes. ABC came in third with
11.4% of households tuning in each night.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The May sweeps is one of the four months in each year when
local stations' future advertising rates are determined by
ratings performance. Network executives don't expect the
final tally to change much from the figures available
yesterday, despite last night's finale of "Twin Peaks," the
loopy and stylish series on ABC.
   The CBS Inc. TV network's strong finish was bolstered by a
most unusual program: the lost pilot of the 1950s series "I
Love Lucy." CBS also was helped by a strong slate of movies
and specials, including celebrity interviews by Connie Chung.
But David F. Poltrack, a CBS senior vice president, said the
network's regular series also helped jump-start ratings.
"Murphy Brown" was up 20% in ratings from last year and
"Designing Women" rose 16%.
   The razor-thin victory for NBC, a unit of General Electric
Co., underscored the recent unexpected vulnerability of the
network, which has been No. 1 in prime time for five years.
"This was the most competitive sweeps in seven years,"
Brandon Tartikoff, president of NBC Entertainment, said.
   CBS "stunted effectively" against NBC and ABC, Mr.
Tartikoff said, admitting that "we have a vulnerable network.
We're still No. 1, but vulnerable."
   Some of NBC's core series were significantly down from
last May, including "L.A. Law," down 9%, "The Cosby Show,"
off by 11%, and "The Golden Girls," down 17%. NBC will make
changes in six nights of its weekly schedule and will replace
six hours of programming with nine new shows next fall. To
hold on to its No. 1 title, NBC will have to come out "with
both guns blazing" when the new TV season begins next fall,
Mr. Tartikoff said.
   Preston Beckman, an NBC vice president, said last May's
victory was particularly strong because of final,
series-ending episodes of "Family Ties" and "Miami Vice."
There were no such special broadcasts this month, he said.
   But CBS's Mr. Poltrack countered that even when the
ratings of regular, ongoing series are counted, they still
showed a sharp drop of 14% from a year ago on NBC. ABC, a
unit of Capital Cities/ABC Inc., was down 12%, by comparison
and CBS's series ratings were off 5% compared with May 1989.
   ABC ran third, albeit by a slim margin, despite boasting
the only bona fide hit of the season, "America's Funniest
Home Videos" and the most talked about show of the year,
"Twin Peaks." Instead of loading up on one-time specials, ABC
used the May sweeps to try out new series, including "The
Marshall Chronicles" and Oprah Winfrey's "Brewster Place,"
neither of which were picked up for the new TV season next
fall.
   CBS's strong showing is likely to help placate the
network's 200-plus affiliate stations, whose managers gather
in Los Angeles beginning June 26 for the annual affiliate
convention. The stations benefit from CBS's May performance
because local ads are sold based on the number of households
watching a program, as opposed to how many viewers in various
age groups are tuning in.
   National network ads, however, are sold based on
demographic groups and CBS, despite its finish, continues to
attract an older audience that is less desirable to
advertisers. ABC pulls in the younger adult audience, a
segment that used to be dominated by NBC. NBC recently has
been forced to give advertisers free time, or "make-goods,"
to compensate for delivering fewer 18-to-49-year-old viewers
than promised.
   "We think it's going to be an open battle in the fall,"
said an ebullient Mr. Poltrack of CBS between screenings of
CBS pilots. CBS is expected to announce its new fall line-up
late this week or early next week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   House Tooth Fairy
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Yesterday the House voted to spend $250 million on people
who lose their jobs because of the Clean Air bill the House
is going to pass. In Congress, there really is a free lunch,
a tooth fairy and money that grows on trees. House
philosopher, Rep. Jerry Sikorski, called the measure "a
matter of simple justice." More likely it's severance pay for
whichever Big Three auto maker the Clean Air bill ultimately
destroys.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sales of U.S.-Built Vehicles Fell 17.7%
   In Mid-May as Auto Market Stays Weak
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC TOYOY NSANY J.MZD J.MOT J.IZM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- The U.S. auto market remained depressed in
mid-May with sales of domestically built cars and trucks
tumbling 17.7% from year-earlier levels.
   Manufacturers are bracing for some more tough numbers
before sales bounce back. "The market is terrible," said Ford
Motor Co. President Philip E. Benton Jr. He predicted that
there won't be any improvement for "the rest of this model
year, but we do look for improvement as early as the fourth
quarter."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While the U.S. Big Three were hurting, with combined
domestic car and truck sales off 21.9%, Japanese car makers
continued to make inroads on the market.
   Toyota Motor Corp., which has been increasing production
at its Kentucky plant, posted a 117% increase in sales of its
U.S.built vehicles in the May 11-20 period. Nissan Motor
Corp. and Mazda Motor Corp. each posted jumps of more than
40%.
   Overall, consumers bought 259,110 North American-built
vehicles, a 17.7% decrease from a year ago based on the daily
selling pace. There were eight selling days in mid-May,
compared with nine a year ago.
   Sales of domestically made cars fell 19.3%, pulling the
seasonally adjusted annual selling pace down to a sickly 6.0
million cars from 6.4 million in early May and 7.2 million a
year ago.
   Sales of domestically made trucks, which had fared better
than cars in recent months, fell 15%.
   Car dealers attributed the slump partly to a slowdown in
the number of customers coming into their showrooms. In
addition, many prospective buyers are unable to qualify for
financing because they still owe too much money on their
current car loan, dealers said.
   "The five-year financing is finally catching up to us,"
said George Portilla, general sales manager for Sam White
Oldsmobile in Houston. "We got a lot of people that come in
wanting to trade cars, but they owe more on the car than it's
worth."
   Ford's total sales fell 23.1% during mid-May, to 78,773
vehicles. Sales of domestic trucks dropped 12%, with compact
sports utility vehicles providing one of the few bright spots
for the No. 2 auto maker. The new Ford Explorer and
not-so-new Bronco II, which Explorer ultimately will replace,
racked up combined 10-day sales of 4,258, an almost 60% rise
from a year ago.
   Domestic car sales skidded 29.9%, however, as deliveries
of Ford's Escort subcompact car continued to lag year-earlier
levels, despite the recent introduction of a completely new
1991 version.
   Dealers said the price of the new Escort is partly to
blame. The 1991 Escort hasn't any consumer rebate, and many
buyers are deciding instead to purchase 1990 Escorts, which
carry a lower base price and a $1,000 rebate.
   "I think the {1991 Escort} is a fine automobile," said
Mark Brobeck, general manager of Ricart Ford in Columbus,
Ohio. "But I think it's going to take some money on the table
to get people to buy it."
   General Motors Corp. sold 116,185 vehicles, down 20.9%
from a year ago. Domestic car sales dropped 23.7% while
domestic truck sales were down 16.7% Chrysler Corp., which
has been hurting since February, posted a 24% drop in total
vehicles. Sales of domestic cars fell 22.1% while sales of
domestic trucks, including minivans, fell 21%. Chrysler
recently adopted a $500 dealer incentive on its longer
wheel-base minivans, to help boost sales.
   Despite the overall decline,, Chrysler executives say
they're encouraged that their share of the U.S. vehicle
market is improving from the dismal levels of earlier this
year. Final figures won't be available until the end of the
month but vice chairman Gerald Greenwald says Chrysler's
estimates indicate "we really hit bottom in April and we're
starting back up." Last month Chrysler's share of the U.S.
car market fell to 7.8%, compared with 10.9% a year ago.
   Honda Motor Co. racked up a 22.4% increase in domestic
cars, partly as a result of a new dealer incentive program it
quietly began last month.
   ---
                                                                                                       

                    INTERIM AUTO SALES
                                                                                                       

          RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a
                                                                                                       

                              1990       1989         x-%
                           May 11-20   May 11-20      Chg.
                                                                                                       

 GM total vehicles ........ 116,185     165,166     - 20.9
   Domestic car ...........  72,566     107,054     - 23.7
   Imported car ...........   4,248       4,708     +  1.5
   Total car ..............  76,814     111,762     - 22.7
 Domestic truck ...........  39,359      53,173     - 16.7
 Imported truck ...........      12         231     - 94.2
   Total truck ............  39,371      53,404     - 17.1
                                                                                                       

 FORD total vehicles ......  78,773     115,176     - 23.1

   Imported car ...........   1,206       2,050     - 33.8
     Total car ............  43,909      70,593     - 30.0
   Domestic truck .........  34,864      44,583     - 12.0
                                                                                                       

 CHRYSLER total veh .......  44,117      65,331     - 24.0
   Domestic car ...........  21,047      30,399     - 22.1
   Imported car ...........   1,482       3,256     - 48.8
     Total car ............  22,529      33,655     - 24.7
   Domestic truck .........  21,325      30,385     - 21.0
   Imported truck .........     263       1,291     - 77.1
   Total truck ............  21,588      31,676     - 23.3
                                                                                                       

 HONDA domestic car .......  11,076      10,178     + 22.4
                                                                                                       

 TOYOTA domestic car ......   8,820       4,572     +117.0
                                                                                                       

 NISSAN total vehicles ....   4,451       3,510     + 42.7
   Domestic car ...........   1,907       1,312     + 63.5
   Domestic truck .........   2,544       2,198     + 30.2
                                                                                                       

 MAZDA domestic car .......   1,272         985     + 45.3
                                                                                                       

 MITSUBISHI-c .............   1,154         854     + 52.0
                                                                                                       

 SUBARU domestic car ......     100           0     +100.0
                                                                                                       

 ISUZU domestic truck .....     373           0     +100.0
                                                                                                       

 Total cars ............... 167,581     233,911     - 19.4
   Domestic ............... 160,645     223,897     - 19.3
   Imported ...............   6,936      10,014     - 22.1
 Total trucks .............  98,740     131,861     - 15.8
   Domestic ...............  98,465     130,339     - 15.0
   Imported ...............     275       1,522     - 79.7
                                                                                                       

 Total domestic veh ....... 259,110     354,236     - 17.7
                                                                                                       

 Total vehicles ........... 266,321     365,772     - 18.1
                                                                                                       

   a-Totals include only vehicle sales reported in the
period.
   c-Domestic car
   x-There were 8 selling days in the most recent period and
9 a year earlier. Percentage differences based on daily sales
rate rather than sales volume.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Sells Bonds
   Totaling $841.5 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government auctioned one billion
Canadian dollars (US$841.5 million) of bonds maturing June 6,
1992.
   The average accepted yield bid was 12.419% for a price
equivalent of 99.709.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The coupon rate on the new bonds was set at 12.25%.
   Proceeds will be used to redeem C$550 million of
government bonds maturing June 6 and for general government
purposes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Petroleum Prices Drop Steeply Following Report
   From U.S. Industry on Growth in Inventories
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Petroleum prices fell as much as 85 cents a barrel in the
wake of a report on increased crude oil inventories in the
U.S.
   The U.S. oil industry's latest weekly count of the amount
of crude oil in storage was up by 4.4 million barrels to a
total of 380.7 million barrels as of Friday. That was the
highest level since 1982. And the report, issued by the
American Petroleum Institute late Tuesday, after most oil
markets had closed, triggered a near free-fall in oil prices
that swept around the world.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the API report of swollen U.S. crude inventories, the
apparent catalyst for this latest price fall, only reflects
the world oil glut resulting from continued high production
by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, oil
analysts noted.
   "It's only symptomatic; the reality is that the market is
oversupplied (by OPEC)," said Michael Rothman, vice president
and senior energy analyst at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets in
New York.
   Although OPEC agreed in early May to cut back on
production by more than one million barrels a day, Mr.
Rothman said preliminary estimates suggest that total output
hasn't yet been trimmed. "Saudi Arabia seems to have
implemented a reduction," he said, "but that is being offset
by increases from others."
   Prices began falling Tuesday night in the U.S. cash market
and then continued declining as trading opened yesterday in
Asia, the Middle East and then in Europe. Spot prices of
Middle East and North Sea crudes were down between 45 cents
and 85 cents a barrel. On London's International Petroleum
Exchange, Brent blend crude oil futures closed 38 to 48 cents
lower.
   The price fall came full circle by the time yesterday's
futures trading opened in the U.S. The July crude contract
opened 32 cents a barrel lower on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, and some traders worried that the plunge would
carry the Merc crude, near $20 a barrel less than two weeks
ago, down to as low as $17.
   The July contract did briefly fall through the technically
important level of $18 a barrel, but recovered a bit before
trading ended. It settled at $18.14, down 78 cents. The
August contract ended at $18.77 a barrel, down 65 cents.
   There were reports in the oil industry that Saudi
officials, who stubbornly resist any indication that the
kingdom may be returning to its old role of OPEC's so-called
swing producer, will soon grow impatient with Kuwait, the
United Arab Emirates and others who had pledged to curtail
output also. The guessing yesterday was that the Saudis, now
apparently back down to their quota of 5.4 million barrels a
day, would expand production again to recapture their
traditional share of nearly 24.5% of OPEC output within two
or three weeks unless it's clear others have begun to reduce
output.
   Also affecting the oil market was speculation among some
traders that the Saudis may be selling large amounts of oil
from their above-ground inventories even though they have cut
back on wellhead production. Some linked this to reports the
Saudis also were selling gold. The theory, still unconfirmed,
is that "they are selling oil and gold to get the dollars to
buy British pounds" to help pay for their multibillion-dollar
arms deal with Britain, according to Peter Beutel of Elders
Futures Inc., New York.
   Further adding to the worries over the oil glut, meantime,
was word that the Trans-Panama pipeline, which carries
Alaskan crude across the Isthmus, had to be closed
temporarily because storage tanks were filled at either end.
   Many in the oil industry expect OPEC to react to the price
fall with further statements that its production is coming
down. But some questioned whether such statements will any
longer be enough to stop the fall in oil prices. "The people
in the industry who are dealing with physical barrels are
going to wait for actual figures," said Neil Chandi,
president, Crescent International Petroleum Ltd.
   Still, there were hints yesterday that the heavy flow of
oil from OPEC may be starting to taper off, if ever so
slightly. The volume of oil currently on the water in tankers
still is "extremely high" for this time of the year, said Roy
Mason, who tracks such shipments in a Britain-based
publication called Oil Afloat. "But, on the other hand, the
movement from {OPEC} loading ports is clearly on the way
down," he said, noting that neither Iran nor Saudi Arabia has
entered the spot tanker market in three weeks.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Futures prices closed mixed as early
rallies in many contract months died out or reversed
themselves on reports that the Soviet Union may not be
granted most-favored-nation trading status at the
U.S.-U.S.S.R. summit meeting beginning next Wednesday.
Heavier-than-expected rains across portions of Iowa and
southern Minnesota, reviving fears that some farmers may not
get their crops planted early enough this year, helped
support futures prices early in the session. In the final
hour of trading yesterday, Secretary of State James Baker was
quoted by wire services as saying he doubted the Soviet Union
would be granted most-favored-nation status during the summit
because it apparently won't be able to pass a law encouraging
Jewish emigration by that time. Unfettered emigration of
Soviet Jews is a prerequisite of granting most-favored-nation
status.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices eased. The July delivery ended with
a loss of 1.10 cents a pound at $1.1505. Improving labor
conditions and rising supplies contributed to the decline, an
analyst said. He noted that inventories of copper in
warehouses of the Commodity Exchange rose 1,177 tons to
10,169 tons. It was the third consecutive day of increases
and a three-month high for the supplies. The settlement of a
new labor contract by Kennecott Corp. and the United
Steelworkers removed some concern over possible supply
disruptions that could have resulted if no agreement had been
reached when the current contract expires on June 30.
However, the analyst noted, there still remain two other
American producers that have to negotiate new labor
contracts, and uncertainty would increase again if the talks
are prolonged.
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: The July contract ended with a narrow gain after
profit-taking trimmed early advances. July finished 0.08 cent
a pound higher at 79.85 cents, but earlier had traded at
81.30 cents, a new life-of-contract high for the second
consecutive day. However, one analyst noted, buying lacked
follow-through "because cotton at over 81 cents seems
expensive" and traders decided to take profits.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Firms
   To Pay Staff More
   Stock, Less Cash
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SB MER SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Big Wall Street securities firms want their
employees to know: For better or for worse, we're in this
together.
   Salomon Brothers Inc. and Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. will
soon join a growing roster of big securities firms in
requiring employees to plow back more of their salaries into
the firms.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two firms' new compensation plans, due to be announced
in the coming weeks, follow the lead of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
and Prudential Insurance Co. of America's Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc. Amid Wall Street's recent bad times, these
firms now require staffers to take less cash and take a
significant part of their salaries in their firm's stock, or
in other incentives tied to the firm's performance.
   The new payout plans among publicly traded securities
firms mark a return to payment practices during Wall Street's
old private-partnership days. Then, spending was carefully
controlled because the partners' financial success was
directly linked with that of the firms'.
   "Eventually {Wall Street compensation} has got to become
more of a business than an art form," says Michael D. Madden,
cohead of investment banking at Shearson, a unit of American
Express Co. "The fruits of our labor should reflect
performance."
   Investment banks, many of whom are struggling these days,
save money when they keep more of employees' salaries in the
firm. Bonuses make up as much as half of the total
compensation for a typical top-level Wall Street executive;
the bonuses often are several times the size of a low
six-figure salary.
   Salomon's proposed new payment system was first outlined
by Chairman John Gutfruend at the firm's managing directors
weekend in Orlando, Fla. Under the so-called equity
partnership plan, Salomon employees would receive anywhere
from 5% to 33% of their compensation in publicly traded
Salomon Inc. stock. The higher their salary, the bigger the
percentage Salomon employees would receive in stock,
executives say.
   The plan is expected to be presented soon to Salomon's
board, and is likely to be approved within 60 days. Although
some Salomon employees aren't thrilled, a number of managing
directors say they are enthusiastic about the plan, which is
expected to significantly increase employee ownership in
Salomon above the current level, which is below 5%.
   "You can preach {return on equity} until you're blue in
the face, but you've got to have enough of your net worth
tied to the institution where you're working to have a
significant stimulus to be felt," a Salomon spokesman said.
   The Shearson compensation plan now under consideration
isn't as clearly defined. But it is aimed at more closely
tying the salaries of employees to the performance of their
specific division, rather than the past practice of linking
pay to the results of the entire firm.
   Shearson tried to restructure its payout practices last
fall, but those efforts were sidetracked by the firm's recent
financial and management problems.
   But tomorrow, Shearson expects to receive the preliminary
results of a compensation study it commissioned from McKinsey
&amp; Co., a management consulting firm, Shearson executives
said. The review will reflect Shearson's soon-to-be-announced
reshaping, which will split the firm's investment banking
business from its big brokerage network.
   "It's a top-to-bottom review at all levels and all forms
of compensation," a Shearson spokesman said.
   Unlike the Salomon proposal, however, the Shearson plan is
likely to include so-called phantom Shearson stock, instead
of publicly traded shares. American Express is scheduled to
soon buy the remaining 30% of Shearson stock now in public
hands. Phantom stock, which has no public market, is used in
the compensation plans at Prudential-Bache and Merrill.
   Other big securities firms are likely to follow suit in
requiring employees to invest in the firm, securities
executives say, in part, because Wall Street firms are
seeking ways to keep key employees from jumping ship.
   "With the tremendous number of people leaving Wall Street
because of budget cuts, there is a need to maintain the
quality of people within firms," says Stanley W. Butterfass,
president of Butterfass/Pepe Associates Inc., a New York
executive-search firm.
   At least one big securities firm recently launched a
voluntary payout plan. Bear Stearns Cos. has offered managing
directors and other high-level employees the option of
putting as much as 50% of their bonus into publicly traded
Bear Stearns stock. Employees can then defer receiving the
stock portion of their bonus until retirement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Sherwin-Williams Co.:
   New National Ad Campaign
   Aimed at Do-It-Yourselfers
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SHW
</CO>
<LP>
   Sherwin-Williams Co. will launch a $10.4 million
nationwide ad campaign aimed at the do-it-yourself market.
   The home-improvement company will begin soon television
and radio commercials in addition to 48 ads in home
decorating magazines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Part of the thrust of the campaign is to convince
consumers that Sherwin-Williams is a home-decorating
consultant as well as a retailer, said Karl Schmitt, director
of advertising. The company will be offering color-planning
guides at its 1,900 stores to help do-it-yourselfers develop
color schemes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Viewpoint:
   Gunman Deranged? No More Than Israel's Anti-Arab Policy
   ----
   By Alexander Cockburn
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   The place, beside the main road into Rishon Lezion, is
known locally as "the slave market." It's where Palestinian
laborers wait in hope of getting a day's work in construction
or fruit picking from Israeli contractors. Here, last Sunday,
21-year-old Ami Popper killed seven Palestinians and wounded
10 with an automatic rifle.
   The word from Israeli authorities was that Popper was
"deranged." It was suggested he may have been sexually
assaulted by an Arab when he was 13. So if the assault story
was true, you could say in a way Palestinians brought it on
themselves. Mind you, if a Palestinian shot seven Jews, no
one would bother with psychiatric discrimination. He'd be a
"terrorist" and he'd stay a "terrorist," even if it turned
out that at the age of 13 he'd seen his pregnant mother
beaten half to death by Israeli soldiers and his younger
brother blinded by a rubber bullet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Not everyone bought the "crazed killer" theory. Two of
Popper's neighbors told Newsday he was "a really nice kid"
and not mad at all. Refusing requests from Popper's lawyer
and from the police that he be hospitalized for psychiatric
observation, Judge Davide Mualam remarked, "Most of those who
commit serious crimes are emotionally stable, both legally
and medically."
   With truly remarkable chutzpa, propagandists like Steven
Emerson (who had a piece on this paper's editorial page
Tuesday) claimed that Israel somehow emerged with enhanced
moral standing with "values and conscience" excellently
demonstrated by the speed with which Popper's deed was
condemned by Israelis, including government leaders.
   But what did Israelis leaders actually do after Popper's
spree? They ordered more savage repression. Headlines couched
thus, "Lone Israeli Slays 7 Palestinians; 7 More Arabs Killed
as Riots Erupt" don't give us the active mathematics of
retaliation. The headline should have read, "Popper kills 7
Palestinians, Then Army Kills 7 More, Wounds 700."
   The idea seems to be that Palestinians would feel better
about the Popper killings if they understood that the gunman
was nuts, rather than merely having a bad day or even feeling
great. The trouble is, when you are continuously, month after
month, on the receiving end of rational, coolly calculated
violence you probably don't stop to ask yourself, how will
Ami Popper make out on his inkblot test? You go ahead and
throw a rock.
   Here are a few instances of rationality as recently
experienced by Palestinians:
   -- Last year, Rabbi Moshe Levinger, leader of the Gush
Emunim fanatics, fired indiscriminately at Palestinians in
Hebron after his car had been hit by stones. He killed a
shopkeeper and was arrested. According to Israeli
human-rights activist Prof. Israel Shahak, "Shortly before
(the Popper) massacre the Israeli media extensively covered
statements and events inciting Israeli Jews to kill Arabs."
Rabbi Levinger, sentenced to five months for slaying the
Palestinian shopkeeper, was honored at a celebration in
Elkana prior to entering prison by -- according to the May 18
Ha'aretz, Israel's largest daily, Gen. Yitzhak Mordechai,
military commander of the West Bank. Also present was Chaim
Herzog, Israel's president.
   After the event, Rabbi Levinger was taken to prison on the
shoulders of his supporters. Earlier, Rabbi Moshe Neriya
published a statement for this occasion, quoted in Ha'aretz
for May 13, in which the rabbi enjoined every Jew "to shoot
(Arabs) left and right without thinking and without
hesitating." According to Prof. Shahak, this statement was
scarcely condemned by politicians.
   -- A former army commander, Lt. Col. Yehuda Meir, is now
being tried in military court, accused of systematically
breaking the arms and legs of people in the West Bank
villages of Huwara and Beita. Col. Meir had been quietly
released by the army after the incidents, but protests from
some Knesset members forced a trial. He is not being called
deranged. The persons so beaten were on a list and, as the
periodical Middle East International says, "The court has
heard hair-raising accounts of the `operation' in which
victims were hauled from their homes, showing no resistance;
then, while shackled, their limbs were shattered with clubs.
Senior officers testified that Meir's orders were in flagrant
defiance of official policy. Judicial observers do not expect
Meir to receive anything more than a token sentence."
   What do Palestinians see, as they peer about in search of
a rational world in which they could follow the tranquil
command of the U.S. government and press to stay off the
streets and wait for the "peace process" to unfold?
   Yitzhak Shamir is now seeking to cobble together an
alliance of the far right, which might even include as
defense minister his enemy Ariel Sharon, who pledges to end
the "intifada" quickly with "no questions asked" (i.e.
Popperism writ large). Desirous of the police ministry is
Rehavam Ze'evi, a member of a party that seeks mass
deportations of Palestinians. The present deputy foreign
minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, also favors mass deportation.
   At the moment Palestinians were protesting Popper's
slayings and Steven Emerson was formulating his column about
Israeli leaders' compassionate response, a committee of the
Knesset was voting more than $17 million for road-building
and Jewish settlements in the occupied territories. A
Jerusalem-based think tank, the Institute for Advanced
Strategic and Political Studies, recently issued a report
that it claimed represented "a wall-to-wall consensus of
Israel's military and strategic communities." The Jewish Week
reports a prime conclusion of the report was that "giving up
territory for an Arab state in the West Bank and/or Gaza is
`unthinkable' for Israel," even if such a state was, as the
report's editor said, "ruled by the Boy Scouts of America."
   The report, called "Can Israel Survive a Palestinian
State?" was launched at the National Press Club in
Washington, and clearly aimed at an American audience. As of
May 4 no Hebrew-language version had been put out.
   In other words, it's clearly the consensus of Israel's
political elite that they can outstay any U.S. pressure --
though none has been exerted -- to make any concessions to
Palestinians. They can continue to crush the "intifada" and
look to the time when the so-called Palestinian "demographic
time-bomb" will be countered by the arrival of Soviet Jews,
estimated at one million by 1993. This will make Israel even
more determined to hold on to the West Bank and its crucial
water supply.
   For their part, "moderate" Palestinian leaders who went on
hunger strikes after the Popper killings see that talking to
U.S. officials is getting them nowhere.
   There's no internal political pressure for these officials
to do anything serious. And so nothing serious has been done.
Most U.S. politicians cower in terror at the American-Jewish
lobby, even though public opinion is ahead of them. Israel's
leaders reckon they have nothing to fear from the U.S. as
they try to stamp out all Palestinian resistance.
   Within the terms of Israel's policy toward Palestinians,
Ami Popper perpetrated an entirely rational act.
   ---
   Mr. Cockburn is a columnist for The Nation and Anderson
Valley (Calif.) Advertiser.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Democrats Soften
   Stance on Aiding
   Central America
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House Democratic leadership, stepping
away from confrontation with the Bush administration, agreed
to expedite aid to Central America without resolving first
the issue of military assistance to El Salvador.
   Their agreement clears the way for adoption this week of
legislation that would provide more than $4 billion in new
spending for the current fiscal year. The measure includes
$720 million to help the new governments in Panama and
Nicaragua reduce their debt and finance private investment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   President Bush has insisted Congress complete the aid
package before its Memorial Day recess. But that appeared in
doubt after a stormy debate Tuesday night, in which the
administration and its Republican allies scuttled related
authorizing legislation after the House approved a Democratic
amendment that would have cut aid to El Salvador because of
alleged human-rights abuses there.
   Yesterday, after a telephone conversation with Secretary
of State James Baker, House Rules Committee Chairman Joseph
Moakley said he had been promised "good faith" negotiations
on the Salvador question in the coming weeks. Still, the
leadership's decision to let the spending bill advance even
though the issue of aid to El Salvador wasn't settled left
liberals bitter.
   The El Salvador debate reflects increasing concern in
Congress over continued human-rights abuses by the military
there. Moreover, maneuvering by both sides showed the
increased vulnerability of foreign aid in general. The swing
voters included a bloc of more than 40 Southern and border
state Democrats who supported putting conditions on aid, but
then abandoned the entire package when the GOP backed away
from it.
   "Foreign aid is in serious trouble," said Rep. Thomas
Downey (D., N.Y.).
   As much as the administration has ridiculed domestic
spending that Congress has added to the pending
appropriations bill, it may now be the best way of saving the
Central America package. Expenditures for education,
veterans, and nutrition are sure to be highlighted as the
bill moves toward a final vote, and lawmakers have salted the
legislation with assorted provisions for parochial interests.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oracle, Digital Equipment
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ORCL DEC
</CO>
<LP>
   REDWOOD SHORES, Calif. -- Oracle Corp., a unit of Oracle
Systems Corp., said it reached a joint marketing agreement
with Digital Equipment Corp., Maynard, Mass., to promote
Oracle accounting software with Digital computers.
   Oracle declined to estimate the potential financial effect
of the agreement. The companies hope to benefit from a trend
of users increasingly performing accounting tasks on personal
computers and networks, as opposed to large mainframe
machines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Latin America's Drug Barons
   ----
   By David Asman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Few criminal enterprises compare with the scope and
brutality of Latin America's drug barons. They compete for
billions of dollars of profit; their death squads are
responsible for thousands of murders; and they can compromise
and thus destroy the legitimacy of entire governments.
   The most notorious drug cartels can be found in Colombia
and Mexico. Detailed accounts of each are presented in two
new books that transport us right into the belly of the
beast.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The most difficult part of any such account is separating
fact from fiction. Cunning and exaggeration are important
tools of the drug trade, and it's not hard for investigators
to get bamboozled by these hustlers. "Drug Lord: The Life of
a Mexican Kingpin" (Pharos Books, 268 pages, $18.95), by El
Paso Herald reporter Terrence E. Poppa, avoids this hazard
and is the more reliable of the two. Mr. Poppa is a
first-rate journalist who has painstakingly cross-checked the
testimony of convicted dealers, drug agents and police to
document the rise and fall one of the most notorious drug
lords, Pablo Acosta.
   Actually a Mexican-born U.S. citizen, Acosta transshipped
Colombian cocaine through his fiefdom in northern Mexico
before his 1987 death in an old-fashioned
"You'll-never-take-me-alive]" shootout with "federales." His
Mexican-U.S. smuggling ring brought 60 tons of Colombian
cocaine a year into the U.S. across the border from Mexico,
where many army garrison commanders provide dealers like
Acosta with logistical support.
   Acosta's rise from cheap crook to head of a significant
criminal empire is reminiscent of the film he loved to watch
over and over, "Scarface" in the Al Pacino version. Like
Scarface, Acosta succumbed to the product he peddled --
spending his last days freebasing cocaine 12 to 14 hours a
day, with his drug-induced paranoia finally driving
associates to betray him.
   However, though responsible for as many as 20 murders,
Acosta emerges like a gregarious figure from "The Godfather.
He was not without charm and a sense of honor. These
attributes are completely missing from the Colombian drug
lords. There, the stakes are much higher, and so is the
treachery. Acosta bitterly chastized any operatives who hurt
innocent family members, even those of his enemies. But in
the Colombian drug world, the murder of innocents has become
a preferred method of enforcement.
   In "The Man Who Made It Snow" (Simon &amp; Schuster, 304
pages, $19.95), drug dealer turned government witness Max
Mermelstein puts a fine point on these horrors: "Colombian
criminals look at a man's family as his weakness," recalls
the author. "They threaten the family first. They warn you
once, maybe twice, then they kill your family, one by one, or
all at the same time, and they do it as easily as snuffing
out a candle."
   According to the book jacket, Mr. Mermelstein was "the
American mastermind inside the Colombian cartel." In fact,
his was but one of several major smuggling pipelines from
Colombia into the U.S. But what a pipeline]
   From 1981 to the time Mermelstein was arrested in June
1985, he was personally responsible for bringing 56 tons of
cocaine into the U.S. and smuggling $300 million out. He
dealt directly with Medellin cartel leaders Fabio Ochoa,
Pablo Escobar and Rafael "Rafa" Cardona (Mermelstein's mentor
in the drug business). His testimony helped convict half a
dozen drug dons.
   Peering into the snake pit that Mr. Mermelstein once
called home is like reading an updated description of
Caligula's court in ancient Rome. The brutality of the
Colombian drug cartel went hand in hand with a life of cheap
materialism: hundred-thousand acre farms with roaming lions,
elephants and giraffes; mansions modeled on Versailles;
Porsches and Mercedes by the dozen; and an adolescent frenzy
for prostitutes and drugs. Unlike most billionaires, the
leaders of the Colombian cartel have made their megamoney in
such a short time that all things -- material and human --
have very little value.
   The problem with the book is that Mermelstein is a master
charmer and hustler who also tries to work his hustle on the
reader. This drug dealer, money launderer and accessory to
murder wants us to "understand" his position. There are the
obligatory "I was a bad, bad boy" lines. But the excuses flow
out and we are expected to take on the role of confessor for
a slick crook. Worst are his repeated claims that his
Colombian wife was responsible for getting him in the drug
business. She was, he writes, "in a strange way, the source
of all my problems. When you are married to a Colombian, you
will meet other Colombians, and the other Colombians I met
were all in the dope business."
   Still, much of Mermelstein's story is chilling -- and
grippingly told with the assistance of Robin Moore and
Richard Smitten, both seasoned writers on the drug trade.
Mermelstein offers new evidence concerning John DeLorean,
acquitted on drug trafficking charges in 1984. He claims that
his now-dead drug buddy arranged a 20-kilogram cocaine deal
for Mr. DeLorean. He also testifies about Colombian officials
on the cartel payroll, including a senator and a former
commander of the air force.
   Until drug exporting countries are able to root out
officials who offer protection to drug dealers like Acosta
and Mermelstein, the drug war is a lost cause.
   ---
   Mr. Asman edits the Journal's Americas column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Morsels of Truth in the Melting Pot
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Arsonists of the truth set fire to their own credibility.
Arthur Schlesinger Jr.'s April 23 editorial-page article on
ethnic studies falsely implies that the teaching of American
history has been based on honesty and accuracy. After earning
three degrees from an American university, I am more
convinced than ever that history has always been taught as a
means of promoting group self-esteem. For example, Winston
Churchill is presented as a great man, despite the fact that
he favored colonialism -- England's policy of exploiting and
enslaving non-Europeans.
   I am in full agreement with Mr. Schlesinger that
"Novelists, moralists, politicians, fabulators . . ." should
not go beyond historical evidence to tell inspiring stories.
I only ask that historians practice what they preach.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Two centuries ago when Hector St. John de Crevecoeur
observed that "individuals of all nations" in America "are
melted into a new race of man," the people from Africa were
not considered fully human, and the Indians were being
dispossessed of their land. What happened to historical
accuracy and objectivity?
   The majority of humanity was excluded from Europe's desire
for "deliverance and assimilation." Immigrants from Europe
replaced their "ancient prejudices and manners" with racial
prejudices against native Indians and offspring from Africa.
   Ethnic advocates of "bad history" and the manufacturers of
the "melting pot" myth are both enemies of the truth. The
artificial aspects of ethnic studies can be overcome with
intellectual honesty by all historians.
   Philip Rhodes
   Detroit
   ---
   Mr. Schlesinger articulates so superbly that which deeply
concerns so many of us and which concern we attempt to
express, but for which, lamentably, we lack both Mr.
Schlesinger's skills and a forum with the credibility and
readership of The Wall Street Journal.
   James Whitaker
   Gold River, Calif.
   ---
   Mr. Schlesinger promotes the self-esteem of white males by
espousing the same distorted history that has actively
excluded women, African-Americans, Hispanics, Asian-Americans
and Native Americans. He erroneously implies that white male
self-esteem suffers whenever the historical contributions of
other groups are included in the curriculum. The
contradiction of American history and American studies is the
need for Ethnic Studies. Mr. Schlesinger's schizophrenic
reaction to the melting pot is a symptom of the racism that
has perpetuated white male arrogance and group omissions in
the recorded history of this country.
   Wanda E. Gill
   Director, Student Support Services
   Bowie State University
   Bowie, Md.
   ---
   Prof. Schlesinger's views on the current drive by
now-tenured '60s enragees to take over the American education
establishment are entirely what one expects from him: logic,
rationality and broad humanity; in short, liberalism at its
best. As such, unfortunately, they entirely misconceive "da
conditions dat prevail," as Jimmy Durante used to put it.
Sweet reasonableness will get nowhere in this matter because
it is not an academic, an intellectual or even a moral
question that confronts us but purely and simply a struggle
for power -- for jobs, money, control of budgets, and
ultimately the real estate and endowments of institutions.
   That being the case, references to Emerson and Thoreau
will be about as effective as the expostulations of the
discomfited Romans to Brennus the Gaul, and will elicit the
same reply they got, "Vae victis," which for our purpose may
be translated "Oy veh]"
   Fred Somkin
   Associate Professor of History
   Member, New York Bar
   Ithaca, N.Y.
   ---
   I was delighted to read about the need to resist the "cult
of ghettoization" and accept that all Americans, regardless
of origin, can be "melted into a new race of man." While a
student at Washington State and Northwestern universities, I
opposed the efforts of members of my race to promote "black
English," create race-specific intelligence tests and
overload my schedule with ethnic-studies classes, some of
which seemed to promote propaganda rather than serious
studies.
   Seth C. Carr
   Los Angeles
   ---
   Mr. Schlesinger attempts to minimize Jewish contributions
to American history, along with the contributions of other
non-Christian and/or non-Anglo-Saxon ethnicities.
   As a student in New York's public schools in the 1940s and
1950s, I learned almost nothing about Jewish contributions to
the founding of America and its development.
   Fortunately, my parents enrolled me in a supplemental
evening Hebrew school. Then, as now, I could never figure out
why the Jewish historical content was omitted from the
public-school teachings. Why did we receive only a
white-bread view of American history?
   Members of the Jewish faith were part of the Dutch trading
companies that established New Amsterdam. Each day, as I walk
from the ferry to my office in lower Manhattan, I pass
through South William Street. On the corner of Mill Lane and
South William, mounted on the side of an Italian bank
building, 1 William St., is a plaque noting that on this site
Jewish settlers built their homes in 1654. On the same
street, closer to Broad Street, there was until recently a
plaque commemorating the synagogue built by these early
settlers. It is difficult to accept that these people did not
contribute to, and help shape, early New York history.
   And what about the role of Haim Solomon in the American
Revolution? Or Uriah P. Levi in later naval battles? Did not
they and others of the Jewish faith help shape the political,
social and economic direction of our country?
   Eli Gabel
   Staten Island, N.Y.
   ---
   My forefathers were Americans a century before the family
of the president he once served, John F. Kennedy, came to
this great land. Yet, even at this time in our history having
a black serve as a state governor or as a party chairman or
as a general on the Joint Chiefs of Staff is still front-page
material.
   Mr. Schlesinger quotes Israel Zangwill's vision of America
as the place "where all the races of Europe are melting and
reforming." My race is not of Europe, and my people's "horrid
past" came not in the old country, but on these shores.
   I do not reject the powerful influences of Europe on
America, but I ask that the contributions of Africa, Asia and
South America be granted the light of day in America's
classrooms. I have been educated in a European fashion, I
speak three European languages and I have European
sensibilities, but my face reminds me that I am not European,
and my mind tells me that my non-European heritage counts for
more than a historical footnote along the lines of, "Africa
is the place where the slaves came from." Thanks to the
American classroom, I know more about Mr. Schlesinger's past
than I do my own, and I deserve more than that. I count, too.
I am an American.
   Craig Anthony Mconeil
   Fort Worth, Texas
   ---
   Correction
                                                                                                       

   The signature on a letter to the editor concerning "black
English" in the May 24 edition was misprinted. It should have
been Seth C. Carter.
   (WSJ May 28, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Opposition to Possible Tax Rise Eases,
   But Voters Are Split on Issue, Poll Finds
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Public opposition to a possible tax increase
has softened, but voters remain deeply divided over the
question, a new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll found.
   Even as they debate the issue, however, an overwhelming
majority of voters believe a tax increase is probably coming
whether they want it or not. As Bush administration and
congressional negotiators meet to try to arrive at a strategy
for addressing the federal budget deficit, the poll found
that 89% of the 1,007 registered voters surveyed believe a
tax increase is either very or somewhat likely this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Voters are evenly divided over whether President Bush
should keep his campaign promise not to raise taxes, with 48%
saying he shouldn't raise taxes and 48% saying conditions
have changed enough to warrant abandoning the pledge. That is
a shift from previous polls, in which clear majorities of
voters said Mr. Bush shouldn't raise taxes. As recently as
last month, 57% said the president should stick to his
opposition to a tax increase.
   One reason for the shift in sentiment may be that the
budget summit has focused more attention on the continuing
deficit problem. "The deficit is in the news and on people's
minds," say pollsters Peter Hart, a Democrat, and Robert
Teeter, a Republican, who conducted the survey for The Wall
Street Journal and NBC News.
   Another reflection of heightened voter concern is that Mr.
Bush's job-approval rating for handling the nation's economy
slipped to 51%, its lowest level in the Journal/NBC poll,
from 59% in April. Those who disapprove of his handling of
the economy increased to 40% from 30%.
   Though the president hasn't said unequivocally that he
would accept a tax increase as part of a deficit accord,
voters clearly believe he's headed in that direction.
   Just more than half the voters -- 51% -- believe that
President Bush is already breaking his no-new-taxes vow. At
the same time, however, the poll indicates that the
president's substantial popularity may insulate him from much
blame if he does change course and accept an increase.
   Sixty-nine percent of those surveyed said it would make
little or no difference in their opinion of Mr. Bush if he
accepted a deficit-reduction proposal that included a tax
boost; another 12% said they would actually think more of him
for doing so. Only 17% said their opinion of the president
would go down.
   In fact, only 16% of the voters surveyed said Mr. Bush's
administration would be mostly to blame if taxes are raised.
Rather, 36% said they would assign the blame mostly to former
President Reagan's administration. And 30% would blame the
Democrats in Congress.
   The answers broke along party lines, however, with
Democrats and independents more likely to blame either
Republican administration, and Republicans more likely to
blame the Democrats in Congress.
   While opposition to a tax increase is softening, there's
certainly no broad consensus that it's the way to go. Asked
whether it would be better to live with the current budget
deficit or to raise taxes, a slim plurality -- 49% -- chose
raising taxes over the 43% that preferred to live with the
deficit. Those figures were influenced in part by voters' own
economic condition: A majority of upper-income and
middle-income workers preferred to raise taxes, while a
majority of lower-income workers preferred to live with the
deficit.
   And a strong majority of voters -- 59% -- said they would
oppose a comprehensive plan for reducing the deficit that
would include defense cuts, a freeze on most government
programs -- including Social Security -- and higher taxes,
even if President Bush and Congress both embraced the
proposal.
   But the weakening opposition to tax boosts in general was
also reflected when voters were asked their feelings about
specific possible tax increases. For instance, opposition to
increasing the income-tax rates for individuals declined to
70% from the 79% in a Journal/NBC poll conducted last
January; opposition to a gasoline-tax increase dropped to 55%
from 72%; opposition to a national sales tax, to 54% from
65%.
   Support for higher alcohol and tobacco taxes rose to 83%
from 78%. And voters who in December opposed raising the
capital-gains-tax rate by 52% to 42% are now about evenly
split, with 49% supporting raising the rate and 47% opposed.
The Bush administration, of course, is continuing to push for
a reduction in the rate.
   If taxes do have to be raised, the Journal/NBC poll found
voters evenly split over whether they would trust Mr. Bush or
Congress more to make the right decisions. Although the
administration has made a top priority of defending the
income-tax rates from increase, the poll indicated that,
given the choice, Americans would much rather see higher
rates for upper-income taxpayers than increased taxes on
gasoline: 68% would rather see the rates on wealthy people
increased, while only 28% would rather see the gasoline tax
rise.
   ---
   "One of President Bush's promises was that he would not
raise taxes. Do you think he should keep that promise, or do
you think conditions have changed and there are some things
for which he should now support a tax increase?"
                                                                                                       

                     Should Raise Taxes
                                                                                                       

      11/'89                              38%
       4/'90                              39%
       5/'90                              48%
                                                                                                       

                   Should Not Raise Taxes
                                                                                                       

      11/'89                              55%
       4/'90                              57%
       5/'90                              48%
                                                                                                       

 The Wall Street Journal/NBC News Poll
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   How Poll Was Conducted
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   DJ GE
</CO>
<LP>
   The Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll was based on
nationwide telephone interviews of 1,007 registered voters
conducted last Friday through Tuesday by the polling
organizations of Peter Hart and Robert Teeter.
   The sample was drawn from 263 randomly selected geographic
points in the continental U.S. Each region of the country was
represented in proportion to its population. Households were
selected by a method that gave all telephone numbers, listed
and unlisted, an equal chance of being included. One
registered voter, 18 years or older, was selected from each
household by a procedure to provide the correct number of
male and female respondents. The results of the survey were
minimally weighted by education and marital status.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chances are 19 of 20 that if all registered voters in the
U.S. had been surveyed using the same questionnaire, the
findings would differ from these poll results by no more than
3.2 percentage points in either direction. The margin of
error for subgroups would be larger.
   (See: "Politics &amp; Policy: Opposition to Possible Tax Rise
Eases, But Voters Are Split on Issue, Poll Finds" -- WSJ May
24, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology and Health:
   New Data Indicate Little-Known Form
   Of Cholesterol May Cause Heart Disease
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MRK UPJ BMY
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   New evidence was reported that a long-ignored form of
cholesterol in the blood may be capable of causing coronary
heart disease and heart attacks.
   The new finding is likely to be important in doctors'
decisions on which drugs to use to lower high cholesterol
levels in certain patients. The form of cholesterol involved
isn't affected much by drugs similar to Merck &amp; Co.'s
big-selling Mevacor but is susceptible to some cheaper, older
drugs like niacin and neomycin.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The little-known form of cholesterol is lipoprotein (a) or
simply Lp(a). It is different from the widely publicized
LDL-cholesterol, commonly called the "bad" cholesterol
because it is known to cause coronary heart disease, and
HDL-cholesterol, often called the "good" cholesterol because
it is thought to protect against coronary disease.
   Lp(a), like the other forms of cholesterol, is a small
packet of fat and cholesterol enwrapped by a protein. The
protein is what allows the watery part of the blood to grab
the insoluble fat and cholesterol and transport it through
the body. The combined packets of all the forms are known as
lipoproteins.
   Lp(a) was discovered in the blood in 1960 by Scandinavian
researchers who suggested at the time that high levels of
Lp(a) might indicate a high risk of a heart attack. It wasn't
until the mid-1980s, however, that other researchers began
finding a correlation between Lp(a) and coronary heart
disease, the clogging of the arteries with fatty deposits
that leads to a heart attack.
   In a new study, British scientists said they measured
Lp(a) levels in 115 patients who had inherited a genetic
defect that produces a high level of blood cholesterol. The
54 patients who had developed obvious coronary heart disease
had Lp(a) levels considerably higher than the 61 patients who
hadn't developed coronary disease, scientists from the
Charing Cross and Westminister Medical School in London
reported in this week's New England Journal of Medicine.
   The patients all had inherited a condition known as
familial hypercholesterolemia, known to be caused by a
defective gene called the FH gene. The patients had inherited
one defective copy of the FH gene and their total blood
cholesterol levels were two to three times higher than
normal.
   Until now, the coronary heart disease seen in such
patients has been blamed on their exceedingly high levels of
the LDL form of cholesterol. But the British researchers said
that in their study, the patients' level of Lp(a) cholesterol
was a better gauge than the LDL level in distinguishing which
patients developed coronary disease and which remained free
of the artery-clogging.
   Equally important, the researchers said they found there
are differences in the type of Lp(a) cholesterol in the
blood, reflecting genetic differences among the patients. Two
genetically determined types of Lp(a) were much more common
among the patients with coronary disease than among those
without coronary disease. This suggested that the type of
Lp(a) that presumably causes coronary disease is inherited.
   The researchers noted that the FH patients usually are
treated for their high LDL levels with Mevacor-like drugs and
drugs similar to Upjohn Co.'s colestipol or Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co.'s cholestyramine. These drugs, however, have
little effect on Lp(a) levels, which are better lowered by
older and cheaper drugs like niacin and neomycin, sold by a
number of companies under their generic names.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Leveraged Buy-Out Funds Are High-Fliers No Longer
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Amid a deep slump in the leveraged buy-out
business, the once-astronomical investment returns of LBO
funds are coming back to earth.
   First, more LBOs are running into financial trouble.
Second, when LBO funds try to cash out by selling companies,
they often can't get top prices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Finally, with the volume of buy-outs down 86% this year,
LBO funds have been left with huge pools of capital that
remain uninvested. To put these unused billions to work, and
meet new stringent standards set by bank lenders, LBO fund
managers are doing deals with a lot less leverage and more
equity.
   As a result, some of the funds that once boasted annual
returns of 50% to 100% now say they are shooting for only 18%
to 40% annually. "The returns should be lower because the
deals require more equity; it's simple arithmetic," says
Stephen Schwartzman, president of Blackstone Group, which has
an $850 million buy-out fund.
   Last week, in a deal that exemplifies the new,
less-leveraged buy-outs, the $1.5 billion LBO fund run by
Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. paid $100 million to buy Londontown
Holdings Corp., maker of London Fog raincoats.
   Instead of selling high-risk, high-yield "junk" bonds or
seeking new bank debt, the Merrill fund simply assumed
Londontown's existing debts of $180 million. That gave the
deal a debt-to-equity ratio of less than 2-to-1, instead of
the 10-to-1 debt-equity ratio that used to jet-propel the
returns of LBOs in the 1980s.
   Here's why putting more equity into buy-outs can drag down
investment returns:
   A fund buys a company for $100 and sells it a year later
for $110. If it puts down $10 in equity and borrows $90 for
the purchase, it clears $20 on the sale after repaying debt
-- a $10 profit, or a 100% return. But if the fund puts down
$40 and borrows only $60, the same $10 profit amounts to only
25%.
   James J. Burke Jr., president of Merrill Lynch Capital
Partners, Merrill's buy-out fund, says, "The financing
environment at the moment is as bad as I've seen it in 10
years. The market for bank debt is in a complete state of
disarray." Similarly troubled is the market for junk bonds,
which financed most of the big LBOs in recent years.
   Although the Merrill fund continues to pursue deals and
has completed nine buy-outs in the past 18 months, Mr. Burke
says Merrill has lowered its return target from 40% annually
to as little as 30%.
   Although the Merrill fund continues to pursue deals and
has completed nine buy-outs in the past 18 months, Mr. Burke
says Merrill has lowered its return target from 40% annually
to as little as 30%, reflecting some of the buy-outs' more
conservative financial structure.
   Executives of the largest buy-out group, Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts &amp; Co., declined to be interviewed. KKR touted annual
returns of 60% back in 1987 when the firm was seeking
investors for a giant $5.6 billion fund. More recently, KKR
has suffered some high-profile financial setbacks with a few
of its buy-outs, among them Seaman Furniture and Jim Walter
Co.
   Now, a spokesman for the firm says, KKR's investment
target is a mere 18% to 25% annually. "The standard quote is
that they expect to make three to four times their money in
six to seven years," the spokesman said. "That's been their
pitch since the Stone Age." And one KKR investor notes that
the Seaman and Jim Walter investments amount to less than 5%
of the KKR fund.
   Although 18% a year is still enough to outperform the
stock market's long-term average 10% annual return, it's a
far cry from 60%, particularly since buy-out investments are
long-term, illiquid, and expensive. And the pension funds and
other big institutions that invest in LBO funds still must
pay annual fees averaging 1.5% of their commitments, even if
the money is uninvested. That's more than double what the
average stock manager charges.
   One reason that the returns of LBO funds are falling is
that it's taking longer for them to resell at a profit
companies they earlier bought. And the longer that takes, the
lower the funds' annual returns will be.
   For example, Merrill's first LBO fund, a smaller pool with
$400 million, still owns nine of the 20 companies it
purchased between 1985 and 1988. At the end of 1988, the
fund's annual rate of return was 58%. By the end of 1989,
that annual rate had declined to 50%.
   The bleak buy-out environment has driven some players to
the sidelines. Gibbons, Green van Amerongen Ltd., which
raised a $425 million fund in 1987, suffered financial
reverses in two buy-outs in the past year, Sheller-Globe
Corp. and Ohio Mattress Corp. Its partners split up last
year, and the firm doesn't have any plans for new investments
or raising new money, according to a spokesman.
   Some buy-out executives argue that the reduced level of
activity and competition for deals will boost potential
returns for those who remain on the field. "Returns are
largely a function of purchase price," says Joseph L. Rice,
president of the buy-out firm of Clayton &amp; Dubilier Inc.
Prices for new LBOs should be lower, he says, because "a
tremendous number of marginal players have been pushed to the
sidelines."
   Mr. Rice adds, "We're in the business of trying to achieve
50% compounded on the funds that we're investing." That
target hasn't changed, he says. Buy-out financing will merely
revert to "the market that existed before 1983," when Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc. popularized using junk bonds for
buy-outs.
   Instead of new junk-bond issues, buy-out funds will revert
to obtaining subordinated debt financing from insurance
companies and other big investors in the private-placement
market, Mr. Rice said. But that will limit the size of deals,
because the private market isn't as deep or as easy to tap as
the public junk market.
   Another buy-out firm that expects to prosper in the
current tougher environment is Forstmann Little &amp; Co. That's
because Forstmann has always shunned the use of junk bonds,
relying instead for financing on its own $1.6 billion
subordinated debt fund, as well as a $800 million buy-out
equity fund. That capability enabled Forstmann to do one of
the largest buy-outs this year, purchasing the Gulfstream
Aerospace jet-plane maker from Chrysler Corp. for $825
million.
   ---
                   Becalmed LBO Funds
                                                                                                       

   Money remains unspent and returns fall at major leveraged
buy-out funds
                                                                                                       

       SIZE          AMOUNT        PAST REPORTED    CURRENT
       (In billions) UNINVESTED    ANNUAL RETURNS*  TARGET
       (YEAR RAISED) (In billions) (DATE)           RETURNS
                                                                                                       

 Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
       $5.6 (1987)       $3.0      60% (May 1987)   18%-25%
                                                                                                       

 Forstman Little
       $2.8 (1988)       $2.4**    85% (1989)       N.A.
                                                                                                       

 Morgan Stanley
       $2.25 (1988)      $1.3      N.A.             N.A.
                                                                                                       

 Merrill Lynch
       $1.5 (1988)       $1.1      58% (1988)       30%-35%
                                                                                                       

 Shearson Lehman Hutton
       $1.3 (1989)       $1.0      121% (1988)      N.A.
                                                                                                       

 Clayton &amp; Dubilier
       $1.15 (1989)      $1.12     103% (1988)      50%
                                                                                                       

 Wasserstein Perella
       $1.05 (1988)      $0.75     N.A.             N.A.
                                                                                                       

 Blackstone Group
       $0.85 (1987)      $0.6      31% (1990)       25%-30%
                                                                                                       


       $0.43 (1987)      0         65%              N.A.
                                                                                                       

   *Before distributions to General Partner
   **Includes $1.6 billion subordinated debt fund with equity
kicker
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Brady Says Cost
   Of S&amp;L Bailout
   Could Double
   ---
   Bill Could Be $300 Billion,
   Including Interest, and
   Taxpayers Will Foot It
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration acknowledged that
the cost of the savings and loan cleanup could nearly double,
and said the government borrowing needed to finance it could
produce upward pressure on interest rates.
   Ultimately, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady told
Congress yesterday, the taxpayer is on the hook for the new
costs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Previously, the Bush administration estimated that $50
billion would cover the costs of closing down all the S&amp;Ls
that became insolvent through 1992, with another $23 billion
required for thrifts that went under after 1992. The
administration now estimates those costs at between $90
billion and $130 billion.
   Those numbers don't include billions of dollars in
interest on borrowings to finance the cleanup, plus
additional costs of S&amp;L sales in 1988. When those expenses
are added, the cost over 10 years could approach $300
billion, compared with $166 billion that the administration
previously forecast.
   The S&amp;L industry, paying higher deposit-insurance premiums
and other assessments associated with the bailout, can't
provide any of the added cash. "Additional resources will
have to come from Treasury funds," Mr. Brady told the Senate
Banking Committee.
   Mr. Brady played down the importance of the current S&amp;L
costs in President Bush's call for a budget summit with
congressional leaders. When asked why the summit was called
at this time, the secretary replied: "It's budget time."
   But at a separate Senate hearing yesterday, White House
Budget Director Richard Darman said the S&amp;L costs figured
prominently. "The prospect of all this additional borrowing
in a compressed period . . . could lead to upward pressure on
interest rates," threatening economic growth, Mr. Darman
said.
   "Higher interest rates could mean the economy goes from
growth -- although it's too slow growth -- into recession,"
Mr. Darman told a Senate appropriations subcommittee. "It's
important we have a deficit-reduction package to avoid upward
pressure on interest rates." Because the government can't
avoid borrowing to finance the S&amp;L cleanup, he argued, it
should reduce borrowing for other purposes.
   Congress has been skeptical of the cost estimates of the
bailout since the plan was announced in February 1989. The
General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress,
estimated last month that the total cleanup costs would reach
$140 billion, not including interest.
   The original Bush plan assumed there would be no
inflation, that thrift deposits would grow steadily, and that
fewer new S&amp;Ls would fail. Instead, interest rates have risen
about one percentage point, the real estate market -- the
investment vehicle for most S&amp;Ls -- is weak, more thrifts
have become insolvent than expected, and buyers for insolvent
thrifts have been scarce.
   "This is an unmitigated disaster," said Rep. Thomas
McMillen (D., Md.). "I think we are going to continue to see
these numbers racheted upward."
   The Resolution Trust Corp., the agency that sells
insolvent thrifts, already has 423 thrifts under its control,
and in new estimates announced yesterday, the Office of
Thrift Supervision said that it projects another 299
failures. Beyond that, 315 other S&amp;Ls are considered possible
failures, depending on economic conditions. If many more in
the borderline group fail, it would push the costs toward the
high end of the administration estimates.
   The final costs won't be known until the investments of
the government-seized thrifts are sold to the private sector.
In the thrift assets sold so far, losses have ranged from 14%
to 23% of book value, a senior administration official said.
That doesn't include losses that the government acquired when
it took over the thrifts.
   Despite slow sales of the thrift assets and added costs,
Congress should resist the temptation to tinker with the new
S&amp;L law -- with the exception of appropriating new funds, Mr.
Brady said. He advised Congress to provide indefinite
authority to fund the rest of the cleanup, rather than in
increments.
   ---
   David Wessel contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Seagram Acts to Renew Wine-Cooler Fizz
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST VO CDGB AFP EUROP AEGSY F.EUC WNEWS WPPGY IPG
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Those fizzy, fruity wine coolers are dead as a doornail,
gone the way of the mood ring into fad heaven. Or are they?
   Seagram Co., in an unusual bid to regain the confidence of
retailers, is running multipage ads in Beverage Dynamics and
other trade magazines claiming, "Reports on the death of
coolers have been greatly exaggerated." The ad lists "cooler
facts and fiction" and pleads with retailers to support the
brand with display and shelf space.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Seagram pitch comes as total sales of wine coolers
continue in a downward spiral. Last year, sales dropped 19.4%
to 39.5 million cases, according to Jobson Publishing Co.'s
beverage alcohol group. The drop followed an 11% drop the
year before.
   But Seagram is ignoring the precipitous slide of the past
few years and looking at the brighter side: For the past six
months, category sales are actually flat, it says, adding
that sales of Seagram coolers are up recently.
   "We wanted to get the facts as they exist in today's
marketplace clearly across to the public that distributes and
sells these products to consumers," says Mark Taxel,
executive vice president at Seagram Beverage Co. "The
category decline was coming from a lot of the second-tier
brands that never gave the consumer quality."
   Some Seagram competitors take exception. "The wine-cooler
category just really disappeared," says a spokeswoman for
Philip Morris's Miller Brewing unit, which pulled the plug on
its Matilda Bay cooler brand late last year. "The category
started to disintegrate, and it wasn't an economically
feasible thing to stay in."
   Actually, both sides may be right. The cooler category did
indeed shrink drastically since the summer of 1987 -- but the
exodus of numerous wine-cooler makers like Miller has been
good news for Seagram and E&amp;J Gallo Winery, which makes
Bartles &amp; Jaymes. Both heavyweights have picked up share, and
together they now account for about 80% of total sales.
   "Certainly there was a fad aspect to wine coolers," says
Jon Fredrikson, a wine-industry economist at Gomberg,
Fredrikson &amp; Associates, San Francisco. "But there was a
major shakeout," he says, and the survivors have carved a
healthy business.
   Seagram isn't taking any chances. In addition to the pitch
aimed at retailers, it hired a new ad agency, Wells, Rich,
Greene, and this week wheels out a new ad campaign in
anticipation of summer, when the majority of coolers are
consumed.
   The new campaign, themed "it's a cooler world," has a
decidedly middlebrow feel to it, with men and women shown
sitting around a table exchanging lively conversation. "We
talked about guys, we talked about girls, hey that's what
life's all about anyway," goes part of a jingle sung by
Nikolas Ashford and Valerie Simpson.
   Indeed, the ads don't even attempt to woo the
trend-setting poolside types that sampled coolers but didn't
stick with the product. The target customers "aren't trendy
people," Mr. Taxel says. "Our consumers tend to be a little
more upscale than regular beer drinkers."
   For its new effort, Seagram has abandoned its all-star
strategy.
   After using Bruce Willis for a time, the company in 1988
brought out three other celebrities, including Woody
Harrelson, Steve Guttenberg and Anne Archer.
   The new campaign will promote in particular Seagram's new
Black Raspberry wine cooler. When the category started to
falter, most wine-cooler makers resorted to aggressive
introductions of new flavors to hold consumer interest, but
the innovations didn't help stem the declines.
   Canandaigua Wine Co.'s Sun Country cooler, for example,
brought out several flavored coolers, but its share
plummeted. It's now a minor player, but it's planning another
run and is introducing yet another flavor, Melon Berry. But
it doesn't plan to allocate any money to national TV
advertising, instead planning to sponsor special events in a
few markets where the brand continues to sell.
   For its part, Gallo says it plans to stick with Frank
Bartles and Ed Jaymes, its two folksy pitchmen, for TV
commercials. A spokesman says Bartles &amp; Jaymes, like Seagram,
had a strong first quarter. "We don't see anything wrong with
the business."
   ---
   Art, Glasnost and Vodka
                                                                                                       

   Glasnost has already been used to sell everything from
McDonald's to Quintessence cosmetics. Now vodkas are trading
on it in a bid for Russian cachet.
   Absolut Vodka said yesterday it will run ads highlighting
works by 26 Russian artists in the June Interview magazine.
The paintings and sculptures featured have, not surprisingly,
one thing in common: Each includes a bottle of Absolut, which
sounds Russian but is actually a Swedish spirit imported by
Carillon Importers Ltd. in New York. TBWA Advertising created
the ads.
   The Absolut ads follow a new campaign for Smirnoff vodka,
which recently was reintroduced in the Soviet Union after 73
years. The headline: "Back in the USSR." Smirnoff has been
produced in the U.S. by Heublein Inc. for 50 years.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ADWEEK: The top three executives of A/S/M Communications,
owner of Adweek, couldn't be reached regarding speculation
that they were in discussions to sell part or all of the
company to Affiliated Publications, Boston. Affiliated
already owns the Boston Globe, as well as Billboard and other
trade publications. Staffers at Adweek have been told that
troubled A/S/M, which has already folded a number of its
publications, is seeking a cash infusion from an outside
investor. Affiliated executives couldn't be reached.
                                                                                                       

   JOINT VENTURE: Chiat/Day/Mojo, Los Angeles, said it set up
a joint venture with Han Brindfors Advertising, Stockholm.
The two agencies plan to develop a pan-European network of
agencies. Chait/Day said the joint venture would be owned
equally, with agencies planned for Italy, France and Spain.
                                                                                                       

   DELLA FEMINA: Jerry Della Femina, chairman of Della
Femina, McNamee WCRS, denied speculation the agency is
selling its Boston office. Industry executives say Della
Femina has been in discussions to sell the Boston office to
Arnold Advertising, a Boston shop headed up by former Della
Femina executive Ed Eskandarian. Arnold Advertising
executives couldn't be reached.
                                                                                                       

   OGILVY &amp; MATHER: Harry Reid, director of Ogilvy &amp; Mather's
Asia region, was named chairman of Ogilvy &amp; Mather Europe,
succeeding Peter Warren, who resigned. Rod Wright, deputy
regional director in Asia, was named to succeed Mr. Reid.
Hans Lange resigned as vice chairman of Ogilvy &amp; Mather
Europe. Ogilvy is a WPP Group agency.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Stewart M. Alter was named senior vice
president and director of world-wide communications at
McCann-Erickson, New York. He had been managing editor at
Adweek magazine. en
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CPQ
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   COMPAQ COMPUTER Corp. (Houston) -- Moody's Investors
Service Inc. said it upgraded the convertible subordinated
debt rating to Baa-3 from Ba-2 on the computer company's $200
million of debt, which has been called for redemption and is
expected to convert to equity in its entirety. The rating
service cited Compaq's "cash flow generation and its strong
balance sheet," as well as its asset-management capability
and the broadening of its global presence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Two Exchanges
   Combine Global
   Futures Systems
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   RTRSY JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Global futures trading moved a step closer to
reality as the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago
Board of Trade said they would combine their planned
after-hours automated futures trading systems.
   The combined trading system, to begin in November, will
put futures traders years ahead of U.S. stock market
investors in terms of around-the-clock access to their
markets. It also underscores the Chicago exchanges' position
as the leading innovators among U.S. stock and futures
exchanges. By comparison, the New York Stock Exchange says it
continues to study the possibility of an after-hours trading
system and potential customer demand for such a product.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With both Chicago futures exchanges united behind a common
after-hours trading system, foreign exchanges may decide it
would be too time-consuming and expensive to launch rival
systems. If foreign exchanges decide to pass on automated
trading, or link with the Chicago system, it could reverse
the trend of recent years in which the Chicago exchanges have
seen their dominant share of international futures trading
volume slowly being eroded by foreign competitors.
   Leo Melamed, chairman of the Merc's executive committee
and the leading proponent of automated trading, called the
agreement to combine the systems "an historic and monumental
milestone in the development of futures trade."
   The combination is a victory for the Merc's Globex trading
system, which will absorb the Board of Trade's planned rival
trading system, called Aurora. The resulting system will
retain the Globex name and its plan for electronically
matching buy and sell orders entered from computer terminals
around the world into a central computer here. Reuters
Holdings PLC is the Merc's partner in developing Globex and
is still negotiating with the exchanges on integrating the
Board of Trade into the system.
   Globex has already received regulatory approval from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and yesterday the Merc
received approval from Japanese regulators to install Globex
terminals in Japan.
   Board of Trade insiders said the Merc's regulatory lead
and the prohibitive cost of building a rival system persuaded
the CBOT to allow a friendly takeover of its Aurora system by
Globex. Plans for Globex were unveiled in 1987, but the Board
of Trade didn't respond with plans for Aurora until last
year. In mid-1989, the two exchanges began exploring the
possibility of linking the two systems.
   A senior official at a Board of Trade member firm also
said that the exchange worried its system might not pass
muster with the CFTC because of fears that Aurora might be
ripe for manipulation. On Globex, orders will be anonymously
matched by a central computer. But the Board of Trade's
Aurora system was designed to allow exchange members to
specify that trades be made with certain other members whose
trading icons would be identified on a computer screen.
   Karsten "Cash" Mahlmann, Board of Trade chairman, said in
a statement announcing the combination that "the resulting
cost efficiencies and savings will benefit both exchanges,
their memberships and the market users."
   What the Board of Trade brings to the system is the most
actively traded futures contract in the country: futures on
U.S. Treasury bonds, which account for more than half of the
Board of Trade's daily trading volume. Treasury bond futures
are also increasingly traded by Japanese financial
institutions, which hold billions of dollars of U.S. Treasury
bonds.
   "Treasury bonds are an essential product in making the
system work," said Mr. Melamed. Board of Trade officials
declined to comment beyond the joint announcement by the
exchanges.
   One Board of Trade member emphasized that the exchange's 6
p.m. to 9:30 p.m. evening trading session in Chicago, where
most of the activity is in Treasury bond futures, will
continue even though such futures will be included in the
combined after-hours system.
   "That's the one thing we've done during the past four
years that's amounted to anything," the Board of Trade member
said. The evening trading session began in early 1987.
   Also initially included on the system will be the Merc's
foreign currency futures and Eurodollar futures, which are
widely used by overseas institutions.
   Currently, a relatively small amount of "off-exchange"
stock and futures trading takes place after exchange trading
hours in the U.S. and overseas.
   Globex will start trading in Chicago, New York and London
in November. Terminals will be added in Japan once the
exchanges are assured they have removed any glitches from the
system, Mr. Melamed said.
   The Merc has already reached an agreement to link Globex
with the French futures exchange Marche a Terme International
de France, or Matif, in Paris. Talks regarding links with
other foreign futures markets have been put on hold pending
the resolution of the Merc-Board of Trade negotiations.
   Mr. Melamed said the Merc hoped to begin negotiating with
Japanese futures exchanges about listing certain of their
contracts on Globex after the system is operational in that
country.
   He said he expected it would take several months before
the Globex system generated a significant amount of trading
volume.
   "We're talking about a new system and new trading times.
It will not be an immediate house on fire," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Winners &amp; Losers:
   As Defense Industry
   Shrinks, Suppliers Face
   Widely Varying Fates
   ---
   Electronic and Naval Products
   Will Bolster Some Firms,
   But Army Work Will Lag
   ---
   A Success Story in the Bronx
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor and Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LOR MD FREST GD GE NOC HSC ESY CMIC RTN LK UTX BA GQ GM
GMH ML
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS -- Twenty years ago, William Ross, then a
McDonnell Douglas Corp. manager, proudly supervised the birth
of the Air Force's F-15 Eagle, the hottest fighter of its
day. Now the gray-haired president of the company's fighter
division here, Mr. Ross is presiding over the jet's probable
demise.
   "She's an old, old friend," the former test pilot says
forlornly, looking up at the bundles of black and red wires
dangling from the half-finished frame of an F-15, an aircraft
the Pentagon wants to kill.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A thousand miles to the east, the future looks brighter.
In a cramped Loral Corp. factory in a burned-out corner of
New York City's borough of the Bronx, dozens of workers at
microscopes and workbenches solder tiny circuits for
missile-warning devices used in military cockpits. The Cold
War may have ended, but the Pentagon still wants highly
sophisticated electronic equipment. So, Loral is investing
$10 million in new machinery over the next three years and
seeks to expand the plant's 700-person payroll.
   "The stuff we turn out is profitable, and people here feel
pretty good about the backlog of firm orders," says Rick
Morgan, the plant manager.
   The disparate fates of the two contractors underscore the
complexity of the defense industry's steepest nosedive since
World War II. Most of the industry, like McDonnell Douglas,
faces bleak times. At next week's U.S.-Soviet summit,
Presidents Bush and Gorbachev will nearly complete sweeping
agreements to cut stocks of chemical and nuclear weapons. By
the end of this decade -- barring a sharp deterioration in
the international climate -- Pentagon spending on new weapons
is likely to plummet 50%, and more than half a million
workers probably will be laid off. Texas, New York and some
New England states will be hit especially hard.
   But even in this difficult environment, surprisingly,
there will be a fair number of successes and a few big
winners. Visits to weapons plants across the country uncover
several major trends reshaping the defense industry,
strangling some companies and helping others.
   First, as nearly everybody knows, several major defense
contractors are struggling. By the end of the decade, one or
two probably will be swallowed up or quit the business
altogether. However, some giant defense companies will tough
it out and probably emerge from the shakeout stronger than
ever, with fewer competitors and bigger market shares.
   Another trend is common-sensical but less noticed: Lacking
the cash cushion and other lines of business that would
enable them to survive the cutbacks, many smaller defense
companies will disappear. But here again, concerns in certain
favored niches will thrive -- most notably, makers of space
systems, computer-related equipment, defense electronics and
communications gear, and training simulation packages.
   In addition, one rule of thumb divides defense contractors
both big and small: Nearly all that supply the Army are in
trouble, while most big Navy suppliers should ride out the
storm. That's because lawmakers and Pentagon brass seem
determined to maintain maritime superiority.
   Little recognized is the simple fact that the industry is
shrinking but not dying. Even in the post-Cold War world, as
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney observes, "we're still going to
be spending an awful lot of money on national security."
   The shrinkage will occur slowly. For one thing, the
Pentagon's unprecedented $260 billion order backlog will
cushion the blow and delay the bulk of layoffs for a few
years. Also, political pork-barreling has a way of keeping
outdated weapons alive. Lacking a long-term strategy,
Congress is reluctant to chop defense outlays as deeply as
many Pentagon critics are demanding.
   The varying reactions of big defense companies are
illustrated in the contrast between the nation's biggest
defense contractor, McDonnell Douglas, and the
second-biggest, General Dynamics Corp. Both are based in St.
Louis, but the similarities end there. McDonnell Douglas has
sunk into confusion, torn between its history of being the
industry's top gun and its hopes of prospering by selling
more commercial airliners. General Dynamics, meanwhile, sees
a potential jackpot in the industry's contraction and is
sticking to its guns.
   McDonnell Douglas executives talk a good game. "We were
the No. 1 defense contractor in 1980 when the Pentagon budget
was $150 billion," says Mr. Ross, the chief of the fighter
division, "and I intend to be the No. 1 defense contractor if
it goes back to $150 billion," half its present level. "We're
going to be a preferred supplier for the Defense Department,"
he vows, but then mutters, under his breath, "If there is
such a thing these days."
   Outsiders take a grimmer view. Dan Stanley, a former
McDonnell Douglas executive who is now an aide to Senate
Minority Leader Robert Dole, laments that the company's
military segment is practically "struggling for its
existence." Its cash-cow F-15 Eagle, designed in the early
1970s, is in deep trouble, with the Pentagon proposing to
stop buying it next fall, five years earlier than once
planned.
   So, like an ungainly battleship, McDonnell Douglas is
trying to turn toward the civilian market. It hopes over the
next few years to increase such sales to half its revenue
from one-third today. From Chairman John McDonnell on down,
managers are concentrating on helping the company's troubled
commercial-aircraft factory in Long Beach, Calif., get planes
out the door. Top executives say layoffs, by the end of the
1990s, could hit as much as one-third of the St. Louis
plant's 40,000 workers, and they hope to cushion the blow by
building parts for their commercial operations in California.
"Noses?" Mr. Ross says. "You want somebody to build noses for
you? We'll build them."
   Yet reality still hasn't fully sunk in. McDonnell Douglas
plays a major role in four of the government's five most
expensive new-weapons products, but nobody at the company
concedes that any of the programs are doomed.
   The misery of defense giants such as McDonnell Douglas and
Northrop Corp., which makes the embattled B-2 Stealth bomber,
may help a handful of other industry giants. As weaker rivals
bail out and the Pentagon goes back to doling out fat
single-source contracts, several behemoths may well grab
bigger pieces of the smaller defense-budget pie. Boeing Co.,
for example, aims to keep its annual revenue from the
Pentagon steady at about $5 billion, and industry observers
expect it to succeed. Similarly, General Electric Co. plans
to capitalize on its strong position producing nuclear
reactors for submarines, Navy missiles and various space
projects.
   The strong position of these likely winners is perhaps
clearest at General Dynamics. With its diverse contracts and
strength in Navy work, General Dynamics can afford to shrug
off talk of turning to commercial markets. Chairman Stanley
Pace concedes that the company could be 30% smaller, in real
terms, by the end of the decade. But with fewer competitors,
he says, it also will be stronger. "I look at a downturn as
an opportunity," he declares. General Dynamics has been there
before, skinnying down after the post-Vietnam defense cutback
and emerging, years later, stronger than ever.
   Today, the company looks robust at both the big-ticket and
moderate-price ends of the Pentagon market. Carrying a $1.8
billion price tag, its stealthy new attack submarine, the
Seawolf, would seem a natural target for budget-cutters. But
so far, the Navy steadfastly argues that it must upgrade its
sub fleet because of the Soviets' great technological
strides.
   At the other end of the scale, the company's F-16 Falcon,
though operational for nearly two decades, remains the only
reliable, low-cost, single-engine fighter available. Despite
talk of winding down the line in the late 1990s, Mr. Pace
thinks that an enhanced model could sell for many years,
given the lack of competition.
   Of course, some battles are looming. Secretary Cheney, in
his biggest swipe at the company, wants to shut down its M-1
tank plants in Michigan and Ohio by early 1993 -- the only
tank factories still open in the U.S. But General Dynamics
will fight him, and it may have Congress on its side. "If
they know for sure there are never going to be any more tank
battles in the world, then, swell, mothball the M-1," Mr.
Pace says. "But if they want to have some sort of an
insurance policy," he adds, the U.S. must keep building them.
   "The important thing" for a company to do, he adds, is to
"stay calm, sweat it out and come through the best you can."
   Pentagon planners, for example, want to stop buying
General Dynamics' Tomahawk cruise missile in 1993. But the
company may keep it alive by finding uses for it in addition
to its original mission of flying nuclear warheads into World
War III. "We want to highlight the Tomahawk's flexibility, to
show that this is the kind of thing you can use in Panama,"
says Brad Beaver, manager of the company's cruise-missile
factory in San Diego.
   Mr. Beaver's efforts are typical of defense-industry moves
to keep prized projects alive. Improvements will allow the
Tomahawk to fly more than 1,400 miles before hitting a
target, he says, "even if it moves around, like Gadhafi's
tent." The Navy connection helps here, too: Because the
Tomahawk is fired from submarine tubes or destroyer decks,
General Dynamics contends that it will become more valuable
as foreign bases disappear. Sea-based cruise missiles also
are less likely to be trimmed in arms-control negotiations.
   It's too early to say whether Mr. Beaver will win his case
on the Tomahawk, which brought General Dynamics $230 million
last year -- about 2% of its sales. But no matter what
happens, the company isn't "going to jump into a lot of new
areas just to say we're there," says its chief financial
officer, Jim Cunnane.
   At the opposite end of the industry are hundreds of
smaller companies in the wrong lines, such as building
infantry equipment for the Army. They will be the biggest
losers in the shakeout.
   At Harsco Corp.'s plant in York, Pa., for example,
camouflage-painted armored vehicles growl and rumble around
the test track like so many dinosaurs. The equipment was
designed for a European land war that few now anticipate.
   "We have thought about getting out of the defense business
for at least two years, but nobody wanted to buy," says
Malcolm Gambill, Harsco's president. "We would have had to
give the assets away." Instead, over the past two years, the
company has taken $110 million in write-offs on its defense
work and laid off more than 40% of the 3,000 employees at its
defense unit.
   Like many other small and medium-sized contractors, the
killing blow to Harsco's defense business may be the loss of
its suppliers. Thousands of subcontractors in almost every
segment of the defense field have already quit. "Contractors
are now having trouble getting subcontractors," says Don
Fuqua, who heads the Aerospace Industries Association.
   Despite its own cash crunch, Harsco has shelled out
millions over the years to keep alive one small
subcontractor, Rogers Olympic Corp. Harsco says the parts
made by the Seattle metal-forming shop are crucial to its
production lines, but adds that it no longer can afford to
help the family-run company. So, Rogers is folding.
   Yet here and there among the smaller contractors are some
big winners. Companies such as Loral, E-Systems Inc.,
California Microwave Inc. and many other specialty
contractors are nestled in niches that will do well no matter
how deeply Congress cuts defense outlays.
   At Loral, these are boom times. "Whatever the defense
budget is going to be in the 1990s, it's going to be
dominated by electronics," Loral Chairman Bernard Schwartz
asserts.
   At the company's 40-year-old plant in the Bronx,
surrounded by torn-up streets and shuttered auto-body shops,
locally hired workers sit elbow-to-elbow assembling miniature
circuits. The circuits will go into radar-warning devices --
the "black boxes" intended to help Air Force pilots evade
missiles. In contravention of conventional wisdom, the
inner-city operation has been Loral's biggest money-maker.
   Electronics gear accounts for nearly half the price tag of
each new fighter rolling off an assembly line. But unlike
McDonnell Douglas and other aircraft makers, Loral will
profit handsomely even if the next generation of planes never
gets off the drawing board. If the Pentagon keeps flying its
old planes, it still will need to update their electronic
guts.
   Other companies also are eyeing this multibillion-dollar
corner of the industry, which makes everything from
submarine-detection gear to reconnaissance drones to
high-resolution radar. But Loral isn't fazed. While most of
its competitors are conservatively hoarding their cash, Loral
has been swallowing other companies. "We're thinking
acquisition every day," Mr. Schwartz says.
   So far, the strategy has worked. While an industry power
such as Northrop faces the grim prospect of shrinking into a
lackluster subcontractor, Loral has nearly doubled its annual
revenue over the past four fiscal years, to $1.27 billion,
and its operating income has steadily increased to more than
$148 million.
   "We're becoming dominant in some parts of the industry,"
says Mr. Schwartz, who relishes his image as a maverick
entrepreneur. "It's safer than switching to the hairspray
business."
   ---
                     The Peace Penalty --
         How the Top 10 Arms Makers Face the Future

                 AMOUNT OF FISCAL 1989
 COMPANY               PRIME CONTRACTS
 (Headquarters)          (In billions)  OUTLOOK
                                                                                                       

 McDonnell Douglas Corp.         $8.62  Fighters,
 (St. Louis) helicopters,
                                        missiles and c-17
                                        all face major cuts.
                                        Plans to shift more
                                        toward its
                                        commercial-aircraft
                                        side, and hopes to
                                        pull off major
                                        consolidations
                                        without hurting
                                        quality.
                                                                                                       

 General Dynamics Corp.           6.90  Air Force and tank
 (St. Louis)                            businesses are
                                        vulnerable, but work
                                        for Navy likely to
                                        remain relatively
                                        strong. Instead of
                                        diversifying, it
                                        stresses flexibility
                                        of its arms in the
                                        new world
                                        environment.
                                                                                                       

 General Electric Co.             5.77  Jet engine programs
 (Fairfield, Conn.)                     hurt by industrywide
                                        warplane cutbacks,
                                        forcing reliance on
                                        its
                                        submarine-related
                                        and electronic
                                        lines.
                                                                                                       

 Raytheon Co.                     3.76  Some missile
 (Lexington, Mass.)                     contracts
                                        vulnerable, though
                                        electronics work
                                        relatively safe.
                                                                                                       

 General Motors Corp./            3.69  With growth of
 Hughes Aircraft Co.                    nearly all missile
 (Detroit/Los Angeles)                  programs and systems
                                        for Army in
                                        question, it aims
                                        for more work in
                                        commercial areas.
                                                                                                       

 Lockheed Corp.                   3.65  Chances for a big
 (Calabasas, Calif.)                    tactical-fighter
                                        contract dim in the
                                        new environment, but

                                        submarine-warfare
                                        programs, space
                                        business and older
                                        aircraft systems may
                                        provide cushion.
                                                                                                       

 United Technologies Corp.        3.56  Cutbacks likely in
 (Hartford, Conn.)                      both warplane-engine
                                        and helicopter
                                        businesses.
                                                                                                       

 Martin Marietta Corp.            3.34  Strong space
 (Bethesda, Md.)                        programs likely to
                                        compensate for
                                        downturn in missile
                                        and
                                        helicopter-related
                                        programs.
                                                                                                       

 Boeing Co.                       2.87  As helicopter
 (Seattle)                              programs fade and
                                        the B-2 faces cuts,
                                        its challenge is to
                                        keep defense
                                        presence stable, as
                                        it has hoped to do
                                        during the current
                                        period of booming
                                        commercial demand.
                                                                                                       

 Grumman Corp.                    2.37  All major aircraft
 (Bethpage, N.Y.)                       programs slated for
                                        termination already;
                                        so future is in
                                        electronics,
                                        computer systems and
                                        more commercial
                                        work.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   New Method of Making Superconductors
   Increases Likelihood of Widespread Use
   ----
   By Richard L. Hudson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The discovery of a new way to manufacture
high-temperature superconductors at the University of Houston
increases the likelihood of widespread commercial use of the
materials, according to scientists.
   The Houston researchers, reporting in the British journal
Nature, said they devised a continuous process for making
rods of the superconducting material. Their first product,
which has some flaws, is small -- a slender rod about the
size of an artist's charcoal drawing stick. But other
superconductor researchers in the U.S. and Britain called it
a significant advance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It looks like a major step forward," said researcher
George Peterson of American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.'s Bell
Laboratories. A Nature commentary said it "brings practical
applications for {high-temperature} superconductors closer to
realization." In particular, specialists said, the Houston
process may lead to more sensitive radio receivers and
transmitters.
   Superconductors are rare materials that can conduct
electricity without the energy-wasting resistance of copper
and other common electrical materials. Most superconductors
need costly deep-chilling in liquid helium to work, but in
1987 scientists discovered a new family of so-called
high-temperature superconductors that need less chilling and
could have wide commercial uses. A few specialized
applications are already starting to appear, but widespread
use has been held up by a series of difficult scientific
problems.
   The Houston team, which includes C.W. Paul Chu, one of the
pioneers of superconductor research, reported an advance
towards solving one of these problems. Although scientists
have been able to make thin superconducting films, useful in
microelectronics, they have had trouble fashioning the
materials into long bars and cables. In such bulk forms, the
materials lose their superconducting properties when exposed
to large electrical currents or magnetic fields. That makes
them unsuitable for such important applications as
electric-power cables and big electromagnets.
   But the Houston researchers said they devised a continuous
process to make rods of one common high-temperature
superconductor, made of the elements yttrium, barium, copper
and oxygen. The technique involves moving a long sample of
the superconducting ingredients through a special oven. In
the oven, the material passes through different temperature
zones and comes out fused into a functioning superconductor.
The trick is in precisely regulating the oven's temperature
zones, as slight differences in heating produce radically
different superconducting properties. A similar process,
called zone-refining, is already used in the chip industry.
   The process still needs improvement, but samples of the
bar were capable of carrying relatively high superconducting
currents in strong magnetic fields -- specifically, current
densities of between 7,500 and 20,000 amperes a square
centimeter, depending on the magnetic field.
   Such results are adequate for building radio receivers and
transmitters, according to Neil Alford, head of
superconductor research at Britain's Imperial Chemical
Industries PLC. Already, ICI and AT&amp;T scientists have jointly
made radio parts -- resonators and oscillators -- out of
laboratory superconductors that are 10 times more sensitive
than existing copper models. But Mr. Alford said bulk
production was one obstacle. "What these {Houston} guys have
done is what nobody else has managed, which was to
demonstrate the feasibility of continuous processing" of
high-temperature superconductors, Mr. Alford said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sharper Image's Loss Widens
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SHRP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Sharper Image Corp. reported a slightly
wider fiscal first-quarter loss on essentially flat revenue.
   For the quarter ended April 30, the loss widened to $1.4
million, or 17 cents a share, from $1.2 million, or 14 cents
a share, a year earlier. Revenue fell 1.1% to $34.7 million
from $35.1 million, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The specialty retailer cited a "sluggish national
retailing environment" and higher expenses from increased
catalogue circulation and from the opening of four more
stores.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Sharper
Image shares plunged 62.5 cents to close at $5.125.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Punishing China on Trade Punishes Its Free-Marketers
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST NIKE
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   NANHAI COUNTY, China -- Kevin Chen, a Cantonese shoemaker
in south China's bustling export belt, is an apt symbol of
why President Bush wants Congress to agree to extend trade
benefits to China.
   Mr. Chen is a true child of China's decade of economic
overhaul. The 38-year-old ex-farmhand is the director of
Nanhai Pingxi Shoe Factory. The company, based here in this
rural area just south of Canton, makes a million pairs of
running shoes a year for Adidas. Most of his 1,600 workers
are fresh off the farm as well, some of the millions flocking
to new business opportunties that abound in the export-driven
economies of Guangdong province.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "You Americans are always talking about protecting the
human rights of the Chinese people," says Mr. Chen. "If China
loses `most favored nation' trade status, I'll have 1,600
people out of work, back on the farms looking for something
to do. Is that protecting Chinese human rights?"
   Mr. Bush, who seems to share Mr. Chen's concerns, plans to
extend for one year China MFN status, which guarantees the
lowest possible tariffs for China's exports. Depriving
Beijing of the benefit would push up tariffs steeply, causing
a loss to China, by its own estimate, of $10 billion a year
in export revenue. Congress can block the proposal, but --
barring a major human-rights blunder by Beijing -- isn't
likely to muster the two-thirds voting majority that would be
required.
   Nonetheless, as Congress begins pondering the president's
recommendation, there is sure to be fierce debate. The China
sanctions question is double-edged. On the one hand, many
congressional critics of Beijing feel an impulse to deprive
China of preferential trade terms to penalize its leadership
for the massacre of pro-democracy demonstrators last June 4
as well as for its repressive human-rights policies and
partial backtracking on economic overhaul.
   But taking away MFN also would surely hurt economic
pioneers like Mr. Chen who have been among the major
proponents and beneficiaries of China's move away from
Stalinism. Moreover, stripping China of trade benefits would
hurt U.S., Hong Kong and other foreign companies that have
invested heavily in export and export-processing ventures in
China.
   Consider the case of Nike Inc. For years, the Oregon-based
sports-shoe maker struggled trying to set up a manufacturing
operation in China. Despite Nike's huge initial investments,
the factories it contracted from couldn't meet production
targets, and a huge percentage of shoes didn't meet Nike's
quality-standards and had to be scrapped. "In the early
stages, we did a study that showed it was costing us
practically $100,000 per finished pair," says Richard
Willing, production director for China.
   But Nike's patience has paid off. Its five factories in
south China are now making 650,000 pairs a month, and Nike
hopes to export $100 million of shoes from China next year.
Moreover, the China operation has just started turning a
profit. "We're making money, but it's taken 10 years to get
there," says Mr. Willing.
   The debate over China's trade status shows how fragile
Nike's hard-won success is. If Congress surprises everyone
and denies China beneficial trade terms, Nike's business here
would be threatened. Tariffs on some shoes would rise to 33%
from the current 13%, making it unprofitable to continue
producing in China.
   Like other manufacturers, Nike has a contingency plan
that, if the U.S. ultimately denies China favored trade
status, would shift much of the company's China operation to
Indonesia and Thailand. Many of the 8,000 Chinese employed
making Nike shoes would simply be out of work.
   China's exports to the U.S. last year totaled $11.99
billion, up 43% from a year earlier. Despite talk of
sanctions, exports this year are still booming. In the first
two months, China's exports to the U.S. jumped 35%. Most of
the goods are transshipped through Hong Kong, whose companies
also would stand to lose heavily if the U.S. takes away
China's trade benefits.
   Nanhai Pingxi's Mr. Chen, whose factory produces Adidas,
has already been burned once by adverse international
reaction to last year's massacre in Beijing. Prior to the
June 4 killings, his sole client was Reebok International
Ltd. But the U.S. company decided suddenly last summer to
pull out of its contract, citing "some garbage about human
rights," Mr. Chen says.
   Reebok's shift saddled the factory with a loss of
$500,000, he says, adding that his company still doesn't know
what to do with the material for 170,000 pairs of Reeboks it
imported last year. The factory avoided financial catastrophe
at the end of last year, when it won an order to become a
regular supplier of Adidas.
   "If the U.S. changes its trade policy, we'll be hit again"
says Mr. Chen. "When that happens, I might just shut the
factory down and raise mice."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Health:
   Tobacco
   Is Facing
   New Attacks
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny and Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporters of the Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MO
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The pressure continues to mount on tobacco companies.
   Health and Human Services Secretary Louis Sullivan is
planning to recommend curbs on the industry as part of a
stepped-up campaign against smoking by minors, and Harvard
University disclosed that it has sold most of its investments
in tobacco companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   HHS officials said Dr. Sullivan will push for restrictions
on cigarette vending machines, a legal smoking age of 19 and
tougher licensing provisions for retailers. Dr. Sullivan will
include these and other provisions in an anti-smoking code he
plans to recommend that states adopt when he testifies today
before the Senate Finance Committee, HHS officials said.
   Although 44 states have laws banning the sale of
cigarettes to minors, the laws generally are loosely
enforced, if at all. Studies show that most adults who smoke
started when they were minors. Dr. Sullivan believes that one
of the best ways to fight smoking is to discourage minors
from taking up the habit.
   Meanwhile, critics said Harvard's move could spark a wave
of pressure on shareholders to sell tobacco stocks, much like
the movement to persuade universities and state governments
to dump holdings in firms doing business in South Africa.
   Several anti-industry efforts already have begun. Brad
Krevor, director of the Tobacco Divestment Project in Boston,
said his newly formed group plans to contact hospitals,
insurers and state pension funds. Also in Massachusetts, a
bill cosponsored by state Rep. John Bussinger is being
considered that would require the state to divest itself of
all tobacco stock.
   Harvard President Derek Bok disclosed the sale in a letter
dated May 18 to students at the university's School of Public
Health. He said the divestiture was prompted by recognition
of the dangers of smoking and concern over aggressive
marketing tactics to promote smoking among teen-agers and in
countries where the dangers of smoking aren't widely known.
   As of June 30, 1989, when the divestitures began, Harvard
owned shares of tobacco companies worth $58 million,
including $41 million of Philip Morris Cos. shares. Harvard
continues indirectly to own part of RJR Nabisco Inc. as part
of a limited partnership managed by the leveraged buy-out
firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co.
   "When the president of Harvard comes out and says, `This
is dirty money, I don't want any part of it,' that's going to
cause a pretty strong ripple effect across the country," said
Greg Connolly, an official at the Massachusetts Department of
Public Health. "It could be the start of a nationwide trend."
   The divestiture movement has taken a long time to pick up
any steam. As long ago as 1981, the American Medical
Association vowed to rid its investment portfolio of holdings
in tobacco companies. In 1987, the AMA called on medical
schools and their parent universities to divest holdings in
tobacco stocks, but there was little response to the call.
   Besides the efforts in Massachusetts, City University of
New York has resolved to sell its holdings in tobacco
companies, according to Mr. Krevor. City University officials
couldn't be reached for comment.
   The Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association's College
Retirement Equities Funds, a nationwide pension system for
employees of colleges and universities, launched a Social
Choice Account in March. The new account doesn't invest funds
in companies that market tobacco or alcohol, among other
criteria.
   But the Investor Responsibility Research Center, which
tracks social issues for investors, said it wasn't aware of
any other university or investment funds divesting shares in
tobacco companies.
   That lack of interest may result, in part, from the fact
that most tobacco stocks, despite their embattled image, have
been strong performers. Last year, Philip Morris stock
outperformed the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index by 36%,
and is ahead by another 5% this year, according to Marc
Cohen, a tobacco analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co.
   A spokesman for Philip Morris wouldn't comment on the
possibility of increased anti-tobacco activism on the part of
holders. "Stockholders can make decisions based on any
criteria they choose to employ," he said. "But as a Harvard
grad, I hope they invest in an equally profitable
corporation." A spokesman for American Brands Inc. declined
to comment on the Harvard decision. Officials of Loews
Corp.'s Lorillard Inc. unit couldn't be reached.
   The model code that Dr. Sullivan plans to recommend today
to the states will incorporate parts of existing statutes.
Advisers said he will propose that:
   -- Vending machines, which account for about 16% of
illegal cigarette sales to minors, be banned or limited to
bars, offices, and other places used largely by adults.
   -- Retailers be required to obtain licenses to sell
cigarettes. Currently, 31 states license vendors. Retailers
who sell to minors would run the risk of having their
licenses suspended or revoked.
   -- Civil fines be levied against retailers who sell to
minors.
   -- Signs warning that sales to minors are illegal be
posted at all points of sale.
   Dr. Sullivan also is considering ways to restrict
cigarette advertising aimed at minors, but officials say he
may not be ready to announce any such initiatives today.
   ---
   Joseph Pereira contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- KLM Royal Dutch Airlines:
   Fiscal 1990 Initial Results
   Show 9% Drop in Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KLM
</CO>
<LP>
   KLM Royal Dutch Airlines reported that rising aviation
fuel prices were partly responsible for a 9% drop in net
income in its year ended March 31.
   Although the results are only preliminary, the Dutch
airline said earnings fell to 340 million guilders ($181
million) from 374 million guilders in fiscal 1989. The
company will issue final figures June 13.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   KLM also said its earnings were hurt by higher levels of
depreciation and an increase in financial expenses.
   Despite the drop in net, the Dutch airline reported a
revenue gain of 8.3% to 6.5 billion guilders from 6 billion
guilders.
   Operating profit before interest payments fell to 310
million guilders from 390 million guilders in fiscal 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lawrence Brothers
   And Chairman Deny
   Price-Fixing Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SWK
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Lawrence Brothers Inc. and Chairman John A.
Lawrence denied any wrongdoing in connection with
price-fixing charges filed against them and other makers of
architectural hinges.
   The Sterling, Ill., company and the executive were among
nine defendants, including the New Britain, Conn., tool maker
Stanley Works, that were indicted by a federal grand jury in
St. Louis recently.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stanley Works and the president of its Stanley Hardware
division, Richard G. Martin, have said they would fight the
charges. An attorney for John F. Hollfelder, a former vice
president of sales for the Stanley division, declined
comment.
   An attorney for Hager Hinge Co. of St. Louis said the
company "has been aware of the investigation and has been
working with the government since its very early stages."
   Scranton, Pa.-based McKinney Products Co., its president,
David B. Gibson, and a former president of McKinney, Robert
A. Haversat, declined to comment. Mr. Haversat now is
president and chief executive officer at Esstar Inc., the New
Haven, Conn., parent of McKinney.
   In July 1988, Stanley Works had said it had received a
subpoena from a federal grand jury investigating possible
antitrust violations in the architectural-hardware industry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush's Son Neil Strongly Defends Role
   At Thrift That Failed With Huge Losses
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Neil Bush, the son of the president,
staunchly defended his actions as a director of a big Denver
savings and loan association that collapsed, arguing that he
"absolutely" didn't have a conflict of interest despite
business ties to big borrowers who defaulted on millions of
dollars in loans.
   Mr. Bush, testifying before the House Banking Committee,
said that while his business partners invested in his oil and
gas operations, he had no investment in their businesses.
Thus, Mr. Bush argued, he didn't stand to benefit from
approving or helping the business partners obtain loans. The
committee is looking into the collapse of the S&amp;L, Silverado
Banking, Savings &amp; Loan Association, which is expected to
cost taxpayers as much as $1 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bush's view of conflict of interest drew a skeptical
reaction from many Democrats on the panel, though Republicans
defended the president's son. "I think you are seriously
flawed about what a conflict of interest is," said Rep. Paul
Kanjorski (D., Pa.).
   In one unusual transaction that hadn't been previously
disclosed, Kenneth Good, a business partner of Mr. Bush's,
lent him $100,000 to be invested in a "high-risk" commodities
pool, Mr. Bush said. But the loan didn't have to be repaid if
the investment wasn't successful. The investment was lost and
Mr. Good forgave the loan. Mr. Good was a preferred
shareholder in and a major borrower from Silverado.
   "I know it sounds a little fishy, but I've heard this
happen before," Mr. Bush said.
   Mr. Bush said he didn't believe the risk-free loan created
any conflict of interest for him because the transaction and
the loss occurred in 1984, a year before Mr. Bush joined the
Silverado board. But Mr. Bush said the loan was never
disclosed to other board members, even though it wasn't
actually canceled until this year.
   Mr. Bush said he abstained from voting on any loans that
Mr. Good sought from Silverado, because in September 1986 Mr.
Good obtained an option to invest $3 million and gain an 80%
interest in Mr. Bush's oil and gas firm, JNB Exploration Co.
"I never talked with Ken Good about any of his transactions
that came before the Silverado board," Mr. Bush said
yesterday. "That wasn't our relationship."
   But the committee released a letter from Mr. Bush to
Silverado's chairman, Michael Wise, dated Nov. 5, 1986,
asking for a $900,000 line of credit to back up a partnership
of Mr. Good's. The partnership, in conjunction with Mr. Bush,
was trying to obtain oil and gas business in Argentina. The
line of credit was never funded, Mr. Bush said.
   As disclosed previously, Mr. Bush as a director did vote
to approve $106 million in Silverado loans to William
Walters, a Denver real estate developer. The loans later went
into default. Like Mr. Good, Mr. Walters was also an investor
in JNB Exploration. But because Mr. Walters was a "passive
partner," Mr. Bush said, he didn't feel he had to abstain
from Silverado dealings with Mr. Walters.
   But Mr. Walters also lent Mr. Bush $1.75 million through a
bank he controlled, Cherry Creek National Bank, noted Rep.
Stephen Neal (D., N.C.). "In this set of facts lies the
potential for conflict of interest," said Mr. Neal. Mr.
Walters "is a major stockholder in your company. He is a
major lender to you. For that reason you would be inclined to
be friendly to him. Now we have $106 million in loans for
which the taxpayer has to pick up the tab."
   Mr. Bush argued that the loans to Mr. Walters were
carefully studied and approved unanimously by the full
Silverado board. He also said he "never viewed Mr. Walters as
being the owner of the {Cherry Creek} bank because I never
dealt with Mr. Walters." Mr. Bush dealt with another loan
officer, he said.
   Mr. Bush blamed the collapse of Silverado on the free-fall
in commercial real estate values in the Denver region. "I
don't think it was mismanagement or fraud or any other evil
that's out there," Mr. Bush said. "The Colorado economy is
flat on its back."
   He also lashed out at Democrats on the committee critical
of his actions. "To finger-point and to look for crooks where
there are none is not a service to this country," he said.
   In response to a question from the committee's ranking
Republican, Rep. Chalmers Wylie (R., Ohio), Mr. Bush said he
never intervened with regulators or tried to use any
political influence to slow down the closing of Silverado in
December 1988.
   Five former directors and officers of Silverado have
signed consent agreements with federal regulators barring
them from working in the financial industry. Mr. Bush refused
to sign a consent agreement in January, and the matter is
being pursued in an administrative proceeding. Regulators are
seeking an order that would ban Mr. Bush, if he ever is a
director of a financial institution again, from engaging in
agreements similar to those in which he was involved at
Silverado.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gold Again Takes a Dive
   On Heavy Saudi Selling
   ----
   By John Valentine and Neil Behrmann
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Gold prices plunged for the second time in two
months, and for the same reason: heavy selling by Saudi
Arabians.
   On the Commodity Exchange here yesterday, the June futures
contract dropped more than $15 an ounce during the day, but
ended $11.80 lower at $364.60.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The decline was less than half the nearly $30-an-ounce
drop on March 26, when an estimated 125 tons of gold were
sold in London. Sales yesterday amounted to 30 to 35 tons, or
roughly one million ounces, according to Jeffrey Nichols,
president of American Precious Metals Advisors, in Toronto.
   Even so, "it was a fantastic day, both for selling and
buying," said Ian MacDonald, vice president of Credit Suisse,
New York. After the price plunged, he explained, buyers
rushed in to the gold bullion market with the greatest fervor
since 1979. That demand helped futures prices partially
rebound by the close.
   Gold hasn't recovered much of its March decline, trading
mostly in the $360 range since then. It rose 18% from
mid-September through late January to a high of $425, but
then started fading to about $389 before the first round of
Saudi sales.
   Most traders weren't nearly as stunned yesterday as they
had been two months earlier. Nonetheless, the sudden
appearance of so much gold for sale in the London market
caused considerable turmoil. The regular morning meeting by
five top London gold dealers to fix gold's price in the
British market, normally an exercise lasting 15 to 30
minutes, dragged on for 2 1/2 hours. This was the longest
fixing since 1968, when gold was allowed to trade in a free
market, a London dealer said.
   The selling was attributed to the National Commercial Bank
of Saudi Arabia, headquartered in Jeddah, according to trade
and brokerage sources in London and New York. That was the
same bank cited as the big seller March 26.
   An official of the bank in London neither confirmed nor
denied the transaction. If there were any orders, he said,
they would have come from the head office in Jeddah.
   With no facts to constrain them, traders and dealers
speculated freely why the Saudis were selling so much gold.
One New York dealer thought it was simply a "bear raid" by
the Saudi traders, who hoped to buy the gold back cheaply
after depressing the price.
   Others, noting that the Saudis were buying British pounds
as they sold gold, suggested the Saudis were making a payment
on armaments being purchased from Britain. However, one
London precious metals specialist said that if such were the
case, the business likely would have been done through the
Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority, a government agency, and
not a commercial bank.
   One oil dealer said he thought the Saudis were selling
both oil and gold, a tactic with which they also were
credited in March. The strategy, the oil dealer said, would
be to sell gold as a hedge against the oil sales-also
creating an opportunity to pick up gold later at a lower
cost.
   Mr. Nichols of American Precious Metals said he suspects
the Saudis sold as much as they could in March, but still had
some to sell after prices fell sharply at that time. "They
simply waited for the price to rise again and then sold what
they had left," he said. He noted that the smaller amount
sold yesterday suggested that it was a residual of the March
sales.
   One thing dealers, traders and analysts agreed on was that
the selling didn't come from the Soviet Union. Specialists in
London and Zurich said they saw no sign of massive selling
from the Soviet Union, despite persistent market rumors that
Moscow has been dumping gold in recent weeks to help finance
a continuing shortage of hard currency. Fears of continuing
Soviet sales have been an unsettling factor in the market,
they said.
   Norbert Schroff, chief dealer at Credit Suisse's precious
metals desk in Zurich, said the Soviets had been heavy
sellers in April. But he added there was no evidence to
support speculation that the Soviets may be using Middle
Eastern gold trading institutions to front for their gold
sales.
   While the focus yesterday was on the price plunge,
analysts said the stage may be set for subsequent increases.
Mr. Nichols noted that the March drop had led to rises in
April and May.
   Edwin Arnold, metals specialist at Merrill Lynch in
London, said there appeared to be good support for gold at
around $350 an ounce. Kevin Crisp, a researcher of Gold
Fields Mineral Services Ltd. in London, also thought the new
low levels could stimulate new buying interest.
   "We find that Middle and Far Eastern jewelry and hoarding
demand rises when gold falls to present depressed levels," he
said.
   Gold's drop led other precious metals futures prices
lower, but they proved somewhat resilient. The July delivery
for silver ended at $5.2780 an ounce, for a loss of 5.70
cents, but moved as high as $5.33 from a low of $5.15.
Similarly, July platinum ended with a decline of $6.70 an
ounce at $495.20, but the contract traded at an intraday high
of $499.50 after declining to a low of $491.
   ---
   Craig Forman in London contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Turner to Launch Version
   Of TNT for Latin America
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TBSA LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Turner Broadcasting System Inc. said it plans
to launch in January a Latin American and Caribbean version
of its Turner Network Television entertainment station.
   The planned network, code-named "TNT South" by Turner
executives, is part of the growing globalization of U.S.
cable networks. Turner's Cable News Network already reaches
viewers all over the world; and other cable channels,
including MTV and ESPN, are distributed in Europe and Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Scott Sassa, TNT's executive vice president, said the new
channel will include TNT's regular fare of old movies,
theatrical cartoons and documentaries, subtitled in Spanish.
Eventually, he said Turner hopes to beam multiple sound and
subtitle tracks with its video images, so that viewers will
be able to see TNT in English, Spanish or Portuguese.
   Mr. Sassa said TNT South will consist of a single
eight-hour block of programming, which will be repeated with
slight variations, three times a day. The satellite feed will
be downloaded by cable operators, direct-broadcast satellite
services and hotels, who will distribute it to viewers. Mr.
Sassa said TNT South is costing Turner "considerably less" to
launch than the $30 million it spent on TNT, but he wouldn't
elaborate. He said Turner expects to break even on TNT South
in three to five years.
   "We view this as the first step toward establishing a
world-wide entertainment network," Mr. Sassa added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Novell Inc.'s Results
   For Fiscal-2nd Period
   Surpass Expectations
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NOVL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   PROVO, Utah -- Novell Inc. reported
higher-than-anticipated results for the fiscal-second
quarter, reflecting the continuing boom in the business of
tying computers together in networks.
   For the quarter ended April 28, Novell said profit rose
78% to $20.5 million, or 60 cents a share, from $11.5
million, or 35 cents share, a year ago. Revenue rose 9% to
$120 million from $110.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most analysts expected earnings of 53 to 54 cents a share
and revenue in the range of $114 million to $118 million.
   Novell principally provides software that allows personal
computers to share printers, information and programs. The
company said the latest quarter's results reflect the
profitable effect of having a growing share of its revenue --
75% compared with 63% a year earlier -- come from software
sales. "There is a direct correlation between that and our
gross margins," a spokesman said.
   Novell said the results reflected $400,000 in expenses
from its recently aborted merger with Lotus Development
Corp., Cambridge, Mass. The $1.5 billion transaction fell
through last weekend after the two companies couldn't agree
on the composition of a combined board. Novell said
"additional immaterial merger costs" would be recognized in
the fiscal-third quarter.
   For the six months, Novell said profit rose 58% to $35.6
million, or $1.05 a share, on revenue of $225.9 million, from
profit of $22.5 million, or 68 cents a share, on revenue of
$209.1 million a year earlier.
   The results were announced after markets had closed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consumer Savings Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>

   Super-NOW Accounts-a           4.99%
   Six-month Certificates-a       7.775
   One-year Certificates-a        7.91%
   Thirty-month Accounts-a        7.92%
   Five-Year Certificates-a       7.94%
   U.S. Savings Bonds-b           7.01%
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   a-Average rate paid yesterday by 100 large banks and
thrifts in the 10 largest metropolitan areas as compiled by
Bank Rate Monitor.
   b-Current annual yield. Guaranteed minimum 6%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medicine:
   Data Spur Debate on Hospital Quality
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Allegheny General Hospital in Pittsburgh charged an
average of $95,185 to repair or replace a heart valve during
a recent quarter. Across town, Mercy Hospital did the same
procedure for $48,559.
   Elsewhere in Southwestern Pennsylvania, 14 of 53 patients
who suffered a stroke died at Latrobe Area Hospital, while
all 32 similar patients at Armstrong County Hospital
survived.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Publication of these and other ostensible disparities
among Pennsylvania hospitals has catapulted the state to the
forefront of a national movement to bring consumer buying
power to the health-care market. For the first time,
consumers -- particularly major companies, government
agencies and insurers who pay for health care -- can compare
hospitals on price and performance, much as people compare
mileage ratings, service records and sticker prices when they
shop for cars. The implications for the nation's health-care
system are huge.
   "This development is going to totally transform the
delivery of care," says Jan Weiss, senior vice president for
health care at Standard &amp; Poor's. Employers, insurers, health
maintenance organizations and federal health-care programs
"are going to direct their subscribers to those facilities
that provide the best outcome for the least cost," says Mr.
Weiss. "It's going to force everybody to change their way of
practicing medicine."
   Not surprisingly, it's also provoking a brawl between
hospitals, who say the data in their current form are
misleading and full of flaws, and their major customers,
particularly Big Business, who are rubbing their hands in
anticipation of a new tool to contain soaring health-care
bills.
   Yesterday, the Pennsylvania Health Care Cost Containment
Council released data comparing 37 Pittsburgh area hospitals
on 55 common hospital procedures performed during the fourth
quarter of 1988. Third in a series of reports prepared by the
council, the report was the first to focus on a major
metropolitan area. The area contains both internationally
known hospitals and some of the nation's largest purchasers
of health care, including such companies as Westinghouse
Corp., USX Corp. and Aluminum Co. of America.
   The presence of these players has raised the stakes and
heightened national interest in what amounts to a major
experiment in health-care reform. "People are really waiting
to see what happens in Pennsylvania," says Lisa Iezzoni, a
physician and health-care researcher at Harvard Medical
School.
   Other agencies, including the U.S. Health Care Financing
Administration, have published reports on hospital death
rates or on costs, but the Pennsylvania effort is by far the
most comprehensive effort to compile information on cost,
death rates and complication rates by region and by hospital
-- and identify them by name.
   Hospitals are so concerned that they pre-empted
yesterday's release with a news conference of their own on
Monday to debunk the report. "The usability and reliability
of the data have been overstated," says Jack C. Robinette,
president of the Hospital Council of Western Pennsylvania.
"It has very little use."
   Among other flaws, he says, listings of hospital charges
are "meaningless," because they aren't standardized. And
information related to deaths and complications fails to
account for age, whether a patient has terminal illness, and
the presence of complicating problems such as heart disease.
"There's no way it can define quality," he says. "All it can
do is raise broad questions."
   Another problem is that the report covers procedures
performed during one three-month period 18 months ago. "This
is one quarter," says Ray Sarver, associate medical director
at Latrobe Hospital. "Make sure you don't over-interpret it."
   Indeed, the cluster of deaths related to stroke and brain
hemorrhage reported at his hospital "was a quarterly
phenomenon," he said, and reflected at least one patient
transferred from another hospital on a respirator. None of
the deaths were preventable, he said. At the same time, the
report lists Latrobe as one of the best performers when it
comes to complications. In that regard, "We had a good
quarter, that's for sure," he said.
   In releasing the data, the council cautioned that although
three months was long enough to spot the beginning of trends,
the accumulation of a year or more of experience is necessary
before the reports are truly useful in evaluating hospital
performance. "I don't think anybody should make any
significant decisions off this first report," says Richard
Ekstrom, manager, health benefits at Westinghouse. Once
quarter-to-quarter and annual comparisons are available, he
expects the data to be more valuable.
   "The data aren't perfect," says John Dankosky, executive
director, Pennsylvania Business Roundtable, which represents
chief executives of 42 major companies. "But you've got to
start someplace."
   Underlying the report is a computerized analysis system,
based on more than four million medical records, developed by
MediQual Systems Inc., Westboro, Mass. Among other things, it
is designed to measure a patient's response to treatment
during the hospital stay, and to adjust for differences in
overall patient health and other factors that could skew the
information.
   Despite their concerns, hospitals have already used the
data to review internal operations. One in another section of
the state that scored low in an earlier report later made a
public commitment to improve quality.
   Meanwhile, corporations have big plans for the data. At
USX, Jim Carney, vice president, benefits administration,
said the company will visit hospital administrators to
discuss cost and quality issues raised in the report. "We
don't want to favor one hospital over another," he said. "But
why should our employees pay an inefficient provider when
somebody else will give you an equally good result" at lower
cost?
   Hershey Foods Corp., Hershey, Pa., plans to disseminate
the information to employees to encourage them to choose
efficient and high quality hospitals. For instance, a report
issued earlier covering the Hershey area noted that costs for
normal childbirth among about 15 hospitals ranged from $864
to $2,180, with no apparent differences in outcomes.
   Health data agencies in 30 states are keeping watch on
developments in Pennsylvania, which is one reason health-care
experts and business leaders expect cost and quality reports
will eventually help reshape the health-care marketplace
nationwide. Strong performers will use them as part of
marketing campaigns to lure patients from hospitals with poor
results. They will accelerate the trend among companies and
insurers to develop so-called preferred provider networks and
then provide benefit incentives to encourage employees to use
the network for health care. Now, acknowledges Dr. Sarver of
Latrobe Hospital, "Benefits managers are out buying health
care, and they've got nothing to go on."
   The data are also expected to be important to hospital
accreditation and even to bond ratings. "This is the
beginning of a very long-term trend," says Standard &amp; Poor's
Mr. Weiss. "Hospitals that focus on it in a meaningful way
are going to position themselves to be in the forefront eight
or 10 years from now."
   Meanwhile, the information is certain to raise questions
and provoke discussions between providers and consumers, an
exercise that in itself could help improve health care. At
Allegheny General, a spokesman said the $95,185 average
charge for heart valve work reflected some exceptionally ill
patients, including one who died after 144 days in the
hospital. Overall, he said, the hospital's cardiac services
proved to be both medically and cost effective.
   At Westinghouse, Mr. Ekstrom looked at the high heart
valve charge data at Allegheny General with skepticism,
especially, he noted, when the average charge for a similar
procedure at the hospital is listed at $43,451. "It looks
goofy to me," Mr. Ekstrom says. "You and I shouldn't go and
get our valves done until we get a little more knowledge.
That's the process that will develop."
   ---
               Charting Hospital Performance
                                                                                                       


cardiac catheterization performed during fourth quarter 1988
at these Pittsburgh area hospitals
                                                                                                       

   Allegheny General Hospital
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS                             21
                                                                                                       

 AVERAGE STAY (Days)                            30.5
                                                                                                       

 AVERAGE CHARGE                                 $95,185
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS WHO DIED:
   Observed                                     5
   Expected                                     1.22
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS WITH COMPLICATIONS:
   Observed                                     3
   Expected                                     2.37
                                                                                                       

   Mercy Hospital of Pittsburgh
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS                             17
                                                                                                       

 AVERAGE STAY (Days)                            20.0
                                                                                                       

 AVERAGE CHARGE                                 $48,559
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS WHO DIED:
   Observed                                     1
   Expected                                     2.08
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS WITH COMPLICATIONS:
   Observed                                     4
   Expected                                     1.89
                                                                                                       

   Montefiore Hospital Assoc.
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS                             2
                                                                                                       

 AVERAGE STAY (Days)                            26.5
                                                                                                       

 AVERAGE CHARGE                                 $61,382
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS WHO DIED:
   Observed                                     0
   Expected                                     0.11
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS WITH COMPLICATIONS:
   Observed                                     0
   Expected                                     0.20
                                                                                                       

   Presbyterian-University
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS                             15
                                                                                                       

 AVERAGE STAY (Days)                            21.2

 AVERAGE CHARGE                                 $73,209
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS WHO DIED:
   Observed                                     4
   Expected                                     1.30
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS WITH COMPLICATIONS:
   Observed                                     2
   Expected                                     2.36
                                                                                                       

   Shadyside Hospital
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS                             22
                                                                                                       

 AVERAGE STAY (Days)                            20.0
                                                                                                       

 AVERAGE CHARGE                                 $51,809
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS WHO DIED:
   Observed                                     1
   Expected                                     1.60
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS WITH COMPLICATIONS:
   Observed                                     0
   Expected                                     2.78
                                                                                                       

   St. Francis Medical Center
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS                             5
                                                                                                       

 AVERAGE STAY (Days)                            19.2
                                                                                                       

 AVERAGE CHARGE                                 $66,993
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS WHO DIED:
   Observed                                     1
   Expected                                     0.40
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS WITH COMPLICATIONS:
   Observed                                     2
   Expected                                     0.65
                                                                                                       

   West Penn Hospital
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS                             9
                                                                                                       

 AVERAGE STAY (Days)                            17.8
                                                                                                       

 AVERAGE CHARGE                                 $44,959
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS WHO DIED:
   Observed                                     1
   Expected                                     0.91
                                                                                                       

 NUMBER OF PATIENTS WITH COMPLICATIONS:
   Observed                                     3

                                                                                                       

   Source: Pennsylvania Health Care Cost Containment Council
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters -- Getting Started:
   Life Insurance Buyers May Find
   Agent's Commission Is Negotiable
   ----
   By Karen Slater
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   {An Occasional Look at Financial Fundamentals}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   It's part of a life-insurance agent's job to ask nosy
questions about clients' personal lives and finances.
   But the clients rarely turn the tables. That's too bad,
some insurance experts say, because insurance buyers just
might benefit by asking agents a few questions of their own.
   Two possibilities: How big a commission will the agent
earn on a given policy?
   Is there another policy that could accomplish the same
things for the client, but at a lower cost because it pays a
lower commission?
   "If I were a sophisticated buyer, I would want to know
what the commission is," says Harold D. Skipper Jr., an
insurance professor at Georgia State University in Atlanta.
"It may well be the agent's recommendation is being
influenced by commissions."
   Some insurance buyers may want to look into policies
available directly from insurers without sales commissions.
There are also strategies that buyers working with agents can
use to try to get a policy with a lower commission -- and,
possibly, better performance, too.
   Such inquiries and attempts to bargain are unseemly to
some people in the insurance business. "You move the process
from a counseling process to a used-car lot," says Jack E.
Bobo, head of the National Association of Life Underwriters,
a big agents' group.
   A low commission isn't the only reason to choose a
particular policy, of course. And good insurance agents can
provide valuable assistance for which they deserve to be
paid.
   Still, there is a fundamental reason for insurance buyers
to care about the level of agents' compensation. Everything
else being equal, "the dollars that don't go into the agent's
pocket go to work for you," says James H. Hunt, an actuary
and director of the National Insurance Consumer Organization,
Alexandria, Va.
   Most insurance buyers give little thought to their agent's
compensation because they don't pay the sales commissions
directly, and commission levels usually aren't disclosed. But
while it's typically the insurance company that pays the
agent, there's no question who's footing the bill, says
Joseph M. Belth, an insurance professor at Indiana
University, Bloomington. "It's built into the pricing of the
product," he says.
   The amount can be substantial, particularly in the case of
"cash value" policies, such as "whole" life and "universal"
life, that combine death benefits with a savings component.
Often, the agent's commission on a cash-value policy is
around half of the premiums the buyer pays in the policy's
first year. And at some companies, it can be as much as 120%
of the first-year premiums. There also may be subsequent
payments of, say, 5% a year.
   For less costly term insurance, which provides only
protection, commissions usually range from 30% to 80% of the
first-year premiums. But low-commission term policies aren't
always the best buys, because some insurers make up for
higher agents' commissions by cutting their own profit
margins to build market share.
   Commissions also can be a significant factor in how a
policy ultimately performs. Consider two universal life
policies from Ameritas Life Insurance Corp., Lincoln, Neb.,
that differ principally in that one pays the seller a
commission and the other doesn't. As shown in the
accompanying table, the no-commission policy has higher
projected surrender values, the sums a holder would receive
upon dropping the contract after a given number of years.
   That's especially important to policyholders who drop
coverage after a only few years. And, according to the
industry's Life Insurance Marketing &amp; Research Association,
Hartford, Conn., fully half of the whole-life policies
written in 1989 will probably "lapse" within six or seven
years.
   Even policyholders who don't drop coverage benefit when
surrender values are high because more dollars are available
for borrowing via policy loans. Higher surrender values can
also lead to higher death benefits or lower premiums.
   Glenn S. Daily, a New York insurance analyst, advises
buying no-commission policies because they give holders "a
big head start" in accumulating policy value. For cash-value
policies, he recommends Ameritas and three other insurers:
USAA Life Insurance Co., San Antonio, Texas; John Alden Life
Insurance Co., Miami; and Lincoln Benefit Life Co., Lincoln,
Neb.
   Yet no-commission insurance probably isn't the answer for
the vast majority of consumers. That's because they want or
need the assistance of an agent.
   A good agent won't try to sell a policy with an outlandish
commission. But insurance buyers can often nudge their agents
to proffer lower commission contracts. James E. Wilson, a
Columbia, S.C., financial planner, sometimes suggests that
clients get a proposal from a no-commission company and use
that as "ammunition" in negotiating with an agent.
   The secret to getting a good deal is understanding the
illusion and the realities of the commission system.
   The illusion is that commissions are pretty much fixed.
Indeed, anti-rebating laws in 48 states prohibit agents from
returning part or all of their commissions to insurance
buyers.
   The reality is that agents have considerable flexibility
in determining the level of commission they receive in
selling coverage to a particular client.
   Probably the easiest way for an agent to be flexible on
commission is by shopping among insurance companies. Some
individual companies even have multiple policies that differ
principally in their commission levels. It's also possible to
structure a hybrid policy with a lower commission by
combining various types of cash-value and term coverage.
   An easier route for consumers is to take an indirect
reading of a policy's commission level by looking at the
surrender value in the initial years. NICO's Mr. Hunt
suggests that consumers refuse any policy with a zero
surrender value at the end of the first year; he says buyers
should look for a projected first-year surrender value equal
to at least half the first premium.
   "If you adamantly stick to your guns," he says, "you will
find that new proposals will come forth. . . . In effect, the
commission will be going down and your values will be going
up."
   ---
                   Why Commissions Count
                                                                                                       

   How commissions can affect a life-insurance policy's
projected surrender value, the amount a policyholder would
get upon dropping the policy after a certain number of years.
   Comparison is $100,000 of universal life-insurance
coverage from Ameritas Life Insurance Corp. for a non-smoking
man, age 45, paying a $1,500 annual premium.
                                                                                                       

                                   SURRENDER VALUE
                        ------------------------------------
                        COMMISSIONED           NO-COMMISSION
 AT END OF YEAR...         POLICY                  POLICY
                                                                                                       

       1                        0                  1,427
       3                    2,115                  4,456
       5                    5,204                  7,747
      10                   15,495                 18,953
      15                   30,224                 36,699
      20                   51,626                 63,993
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Ivan Boesky's Credibility as a Witness
   Is Challenged by Mulheren's Attorney
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In testimony marked by tense verbal exchanges,
Ivan F. Boesky admitted that he had lied to government
investigators, the stock exchange, on his federal tax returns
and in a book he wrote prior to his November 1986
plea-bargain agreement.
   Cross-examined by Thomas Puccio, the attorney for John A.
Mulheren Jr., Mr. Boesky said often that he couldn't remember
when he had lied, or how many times, even though "I did not
like lying." Mr. Boesky said, however, that since he agreed
to plead guilty to one felony count related to his trading,
he has been "extremely motivated to tell the truth."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Boesky took the stand for the second day in the trial
of Mr. Mulheren, who is charged with 41 counts of conspiracy,
securities and mail fraud and keeping false records. The
cooperation of Mr. Boesky, once Wall Street's best known
stock speculator, led to the indictment of Mr. Mulheren.
   Under cross-examination designed to undermine his
credibility as a government witness, Mr. Boesky acknowledged
that he lied under oath "several times" prior to his
appearance in this case. He admitted to lying to the
Securities and Exchange Commission about his receipt of
inside information regarding the takeover of SCM Corp. and
about his filing a false statement with the SEC in connection
with the ownership of Fischbach Corp. securities.
   "Can you tell me how many times you lied?" Mr. Puccio
asked. "No," Mr. Boesky replied. "Can you estimate?" Mr.
Puccio inquired. "No," Mr. Boesky said.
   Mr. Puccio was often sarcastic during the
cross-examination, which began late yesterday and will
continue today. "Do you know what a pathological liar is?" he
asked Mr. Boesky. Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum wouldn't
allow Mr. Boesky to answer the question. At another point,
Mr. Puccio asked, "Do you like money, Mr. Boesky?" The
witness replied testily, "Of course, don't you?"
   Answering other questions, however, Mr. Boesky admitted
that his book, Merger Mania, was "incomplete and inaccurate
by omission." For example, Mr. Boesky said that he had failed
to tell readers that much of the money he made from his
investment in Getty Oil Corp., which was the target of a
takeover, was based on inside information Mr. Boesky obtained
illegally.
   Mr. Boesky also admitted that he lied on tax returns he
filed prior to his plea agreement. But he added that he had
since amended his returns and paid his taxes. Mr. Boesky said
that at the time of his arrest, he had assets of "less than
$1 billion and more than $100 million."
   By showing that Mr. Boesky's plea agreement left him a
very rich man, despite the $100 million he was required to
pay in fines, Mr. Puccio is expected to attempt to show that
Mr. Boesky is biased in favor of the government and may be
motivated to say anything prosecutors want him to say about
Mr. Mulheren. Mr. Boesky completed a three-year prison term
last month.
   Mr. Boesky appeared not to help the government's case in
one key piece of testimony involving trading of stock of Gulf
&amp; Western Inc. Mr. Boesky acknowledged that he discussed the
stock with Mr. Mulheren but he stopped short of saying his
talks involved directions to Mr. Mulheren to manipulate its
price, as the government alleged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AT&amp;T and Soviets Agree
   To Explore Joint Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T FREST EUROP BLS DEC MCIC
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. agreed with
the Soviet Ministry of Communications to explore joint
ventures in telecommunications services, equipment
manufacturing, and research and development.
   AT&amp;T said it will send scientists from AT&amp;T Bell
Laboratories to Moscow later this year to discuss projects
ranging from digital switching technology to satellite
networks aimed at upgrading the Soviet Union's rickety phone
system.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   News of the agreement, signed quietly earlier this month,
surfaced in CommunicationsWeek International, an industry
newspaper. Last December, AT&amp;T agreed to use the U.S.S.R.'s
Intersputnik satellite network for the first time to handle
communications traffic between the U.S. and the Soviet Union,
a proposal the State Department has asked the Federal
Communications Commission to reject.
   AT&amp;T also is seeking to supply fiberoptic cable and
transmission equipment to one of Moscow's biggest
telecommunications projects, planned construction of an
8,680-mile, $500 million cable linking Europe and Asia.
   In serving technology-starved Eastern Europe, AT&amp;T Network
Systems International recently received a contract to supply
digital switching equipment to Poland to handle international
phone traffic. Yesterday, AT&amp;T Bell Labs said 10 of Poland's
top telecommunications engineers will visit Bell Labs as part
of a free training program sponsored by the U.S.
Telecommunications Training Institute, also hosted by
BellSouth Corp., Digital Equipment Corp. and MCI
Communications Corp., AT&amp;T said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Five Plane Firms
   In U.S., Europe
   Join Jet Study
   ---
   Boeing, McDonnell in Group
   That May Opt to Build
   A Supersonic Airliner
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   BA MD F.ASP U.BA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Five European and U.S. commercial aircraft makers said
they formed an "international study group" to explore
marketing, environmental and business issues related to
possible construction of an advanced supersonic airliner.
   But the U.S. participants, Boeing Co. and McDonnell
Douglas Corp., said the group members won't share proprietary
data or technology. "This is just a loose, ad hoc agreement
to discuss the ramifications of a new generation plane," said
a spokesman at Seattle-based Boeing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Two of the group participants, Aerospatiale of France and
British Aerospace PLC, whose predecessors built the
supersonic Concorde, recently teamed up to build a successor
to that plane that presumably would include technology
transfer. The fifth study group member is Deutsche Airbus
G.m.b.H. of West Germany.
   "The intent {of the study group} is to see what the
world-wide needs might be after the year 2000 and how these
fit with the commercial fleet that would be operating then,"
said Don Graf, manager of St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas's
high-speed transport group. "Nothing unique to a particular
airplane" would be part of the one-year study, he said.
   Mr. Graf said the group also would consider such
environmental concerns as how engine emissions might affect
the atmosphere and noise pollution caused by sonic booms.
McDonnell Douglas, Boeing and the other participants will
continue their individual research, he said. But he didn't
rule out the possibility that the study might lead to
eventual joint cooperation among some or all of the companies
to build the next Concorde.
   Analysts on both sides of the Atlantic were skeptical that
any international consortium would be forged at the end of
the one-year study, or that a new supersonic craft would get
off the ground anytime in the next decade. Environmental
restrictions have toughened, and fuel prices and capital
costs have risen since plans for a U.S. supersonic aircraft
were scrapped in the early 1970s.
   The new study group "is a great opportunity to listen to
what your toughest competitors think," said Howard Rubel at
C.J. Lawrence, Morgan Grenfell Inc. "I seriously doubt that
there will be an economically-viable project," in the next 10
to 15 years, said Paul Nisbet at Prudential-Bache Securities
Inc.
   None of the U.S. or European aircraft makers is likely to
try building a new supersonic aircraft without hefty
subsidies from their respective governments -- and government
money will be scarce. Announcement of the study may signal
the start of an industry lobbying campaign for cash in
Washington, Paris, Bonn and London, some European analysts
said.
   The lobbying will be difficult. For the forseeable future,
Bonn will be too preoccupied by the costs of German
unification. And British government officials grumble that
the first-generation supersonic airline, Concorde, hasn't
been a financial success. U.S. budget makers are trying to
pare a ballooning deficit. Only the French government, which
heavily subsidizes aerospace research, is a likely source of
support for the consortium.
   ---
   Richard L. Hudson in London contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Giving a Hand:
   AirLifeLine, Still a Pilot Project,
   Puts Planes to Humanitarian Uses
   ----
   By John D. Williams
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<LP>
   {From time to time in this column, The Wall Street Journal
will report on efforts by people in business to help others
in need.}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   EXECUTIVES WHO PILOT their own planes for business or
pleasure went an estimated 540,000 miles out of their way
last year to help the sick.
   These flying good Samaritans are members of AirLifeLine, a
nonprofit association devoted to airlifting, without charge,
medical supplies and patients who otherwise couldn't afford
such a service. Last year, AirLifeLine pilots, flying
everything from propeller-driven Cessnas to Citation jets,
undertook 545 such missions, down from 698 in 1988 but well
above the 36 missions flown by 30 pilots in 1980, the group's
first full year of operation.
   AirLifeLine is the brainchild of Thomas W. Goodwin, owner
of Central Valley Press, a Sacramento, Calif., printing
company. "While I was airport-hopping with my own plane I
noticed how many private planes were sitting idly on the
ground," he recalls. "I thought maybe a way could be found to
use hobbyist pilots and their air machines to do something
for people and medicine."
   Today, 336 licensed private pilots located around the U.S.
participate. The group's roster had reached 700 in 1985, when
there were "too many pilots and not enough missions," recalls
Mr. Goodwin. So that year, when he decided the group should
carry needy patients as well as supplies, he added the
requirement that each volunteer have at least 200 hours of
flying experience (there wasn't a flight-hour requisite
previously) and liability insurance.
   AirLifeLine isn't an air ambulance service: It won't
handle stretcher cases and isn't equipped for in-flight
emergencies.
   To get a ride, patients must have a statement from a
public agency that they are in financial need and a letter
from their doctor or health facility that a medical emergency
exists and that they are able to fly. Patients or their
parents (most of the cases involve children) must also sign a
waiver freeing the pilot of responsibility in case of a
mishap.
   These pilots -- whose regular jobs range from stock
trading to trucking -- often fly after working hours,
donating their free time and such costs as fuel and landing
fees, totaling about $170,000 last year.
   The missions are often cooperative efforts, involving two
pilots. In March, for instance, AirLifeLine took 16-year-old
Girts Karnitis, a Latvian in need of special heart surgery,
from Ottawa, where the youth and his mother waited with
special visas, to the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.
   On the first leg, Robert Gordon, a 40-mission veteran of
AirLifeLine when he isn't running his West Hills, N.Y., valve
supply company, picked up the pair at noon and flew them in
his Beechcraft Baron to Detroit. There, David Jack, a
Minneapolis telephone engineer, flew the two 650 miles on to
Rochester in his small Mooney, landing at 6:30 p.m. Within
hours, doctors had successfully operated on Girts.
   It cost Mr. Jack $400 and seven hours of his time, "But,
oh, yes, it was worth it," he said. "A successful outcome
makes it all the better," he added. "I feel I have been
blessed by aviation and this is my way of paying a bit back."
   AirLifeLine's Sacramento headquarters, with a five-member
staff and a computer bank of telephone and fax numbers,
handles all contacts with the pilots. Up to seven pilots may
be called before one is found who's available for a mission.
   AirLifeLine's administrative costs last year were $75,800.
Most was covered by corporate donations and proceeds from a
golf tournament. The pilots themselves donated $6,800.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Four Money Managers Gather to Speculate
   On Where Stocks Are Headed From Here
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI BHC UAECA TDM CNTX BAC GDW AHM CCI
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Put four money managers in a room and you'll
get five opinions on where the market is headed. It happened
again yesterday as the pros gathered to speculate on where
stocks go from here.
   Gamco Investors' Mario Gabelli is starting to buy
cable-television stocks for the first time in a year. Morgan
Stanley's Byron R. Wien thinks stocks will finish the year
higher, but still expects a second-quarter correction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Windsor Fund's John B. Neff remains highly skittish about
the market, but he likes some banks and thrifts. Comstock
Partners' Stanley D. Salvigsen favors gold.
   The four money-management superstars held forth at the
first annual conference of the Association for Investment
Management and Research (newly formed from a merger of
Financial Analysts Federation and the Institute of Chartered
Financial Analysts).
   The market's run of record-breaking days hasn't dried up
the supply of undervalued stocks, says Mr. Gabelli: "We see
more values today than we have in a long time." His list of
favorites includes Paramount Communications, despite its
price drop this year. "All roads lead to Hollywood," he says,
and "Paramount is dominant."
   He also likes BHC Communications, spun off to former
Warner Communications shareholders as part of Time's
acquisition of Warner. He says the company, headed by Herbert
Siegel, holds cash equal to $51 a share -- less than
yesterday's closing price of 48 3/4.
   Then there's an old Gabelli mainstay: cable TV. "The
stocks have overreacted to all the negatives and are selling
at such a bargain price," he says, that "I for the first time
in a year am out there with a basket buying things" such as
United Artists Entertainment.
   Mr. Gabelli also is "starting to look at" venture capital.
There are "a lot of little companies out there that just
don't have access to the capital markets {and} are going to
be very, very attractive," he says.
   Mr. Wien, Morgan Stanley's investment strategist along
with Barton Biggs, said in January that he expected an up
year for stocks, a forecast that looks much better in view of
the market's reversal. Now he offers a cautionary word,
despite the new records on the Dow industrials. "Fewer than
50% of the stocks on the New York Stock Exchange are above
their 200-day moving average," he says. "This is the
narrowest market that I can find in history. . . . My own
feeling is that it will broaden out, but an alternative view
is that the narrowness is a warning signal."
   Mr. Wien describes himself as "probably the last living
American who thinks that corporate profits are going to be
higher in 1990 than those in 1989." He sees earnings of the
Dow industrials totaling $26 a share, about $2 above the Wall
Street consensus.
   Technology stocks account for 22% of Mr. Wien's model
portfolio, with Tandem Computers and Centex Telemanagement
among his favorites. An airline shakeout will benefit the
survivors, he says. His overall view hasn't changed from the
start of the year: "The market has a serious correction in
the second quarter from a level above 3000, but ends the year
at 3100."
   Mr. Neff is keeping faith in his beloved low P/E stocks,
the ones priced at low multiples of corporate earnings,
although his picks trailed the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 by 17
percentage points in 1989 and almost three points so far this
year. He's trying to regain ground by prospecting in one of
the market's minefields: financial institutions.
   "This is a difficult area and there is going to be some
{more} carnage, but not every bank and every savings and loan
is overconcentrated" in problem loans, says Mr. Neff.
Meanwhile investors' fear of financial-services stocks is
making the good ones better buys.
   Mr. Neff is high on BankAmerica, which he calls the
"classic no-brainer in an apprehensive bank market
environment." Another is Golden West Financial, "the ultimate
layup in an overconcerned marketplace." Also on his list are
H.F. Ahmanson and Citicorp.
   Mr. Neff frets about the overall market, however, noting
"disquieting similarities to past periods" of turmoil, such
as in 1973-74. Of particular concern: The "heady evaluations
of the allegedly super-safe stocks" that did well in 1989.
   Mr. Salvigsen, a former chief investment strategist for
Merrill Lynch, presented the bear case for both stocks and
bonds. As he did in May 1987, when he published a report
titled "That Ain't Mud on Your Boots, Partner," Mr. Salvigsen
called stocks "quite expensive." An apt title for a report on
stocks today would be "These Dogs Won't Hunt," he said.
   Hurting bond prices in Mr. Salvigsen's view will be a
liquidity crisis pushing up interest rates during the year,
as companies increase their borrowing to offset declining
profits and state, federal and foreign governments all
encounter increased financing needs. Still lurking is the
final cost of the savings and loan bailout, a "big black
hole" that has been underestimated so far, he says.
   Mr. Salvigsen's kind words for gold aren't prompted by
fear of rising prices. "Our inflation expectations aren't
high," he says. Holding some gold makes sense in his view
because "when people see things deflating around them, they
cleave to gold."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.:
   Annual Pretax Profit Rose
   7.9% on Record Sales Level
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. of Japan, one of the
world's largest consumer electronics makers, posted a 7.9%
rise in consolidated pretax profit for the year ended March
31 to 571.73 billion yen ($3.78 billion) from 529.45 billion
yen in fiscal 1989.
   Operating profit rose 8.5% to 452.72 billion yen from
417.19 billion yen, and net income rose 10% to 235.56 billion
yen, or 108.34 yen a share, from 213.46 billion yen, or 99.94
yen a share. The consolidated results cover 163 Matsushita
Electric Industrial companies as the nucleus of the
Matsushita group, exporting products under the brand names
National, Panasonic, Technics and Quasar.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales rose 9% to 6.002 trillion yen, a record, from 5.504
trillion yen. The company cited increased Japanese and
overseas demand for its broadening lines of electric and
electronics products.
   The company predicts 6.6% increases in both sales to 6.4
trillion yen and net income to 251 billion yen in fiscal
1991, and a 4.1% rise in pretax profit to 595 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Security Pacific Affiliate
   To Increase Local Lending
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SPC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Security Pacific Corp.'s Pacific Northwest
affiliate said it would make a minimum $1 billion in
community-based loans during the next 10 years, the latest
big bank to boost its support for such projects.
   "What is new is the fact that we are making a public
commitment to a minimum dollar amount for an extended period
of time," the Seattle affiliate, Security Pacific Bancorp.
Northwest, said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The commitment covers Washington, Oregon and Alaska, and
is aimed primarily at low-income and moderate-income housing
and small-sized and minority-owned business, officials said.
The Security Pacific affiliate has about $10.2 billion in
assets. Last year, its community loans approximately totaled
$83 million, and so the latest commitment, averaging $100
million annually, would represent roughly a 20% annual
increase.
   Big banks have come under some pressure in recent years
from local activists and federal officials to boost such
lending, which is generally mandated by the federal Community
Reinvestment Act. Security Pacific Corp. and Wells Fargo &amp;
Co., based in San Francisco, announced large commitments of
their own earlier this year.
   "Top managements are recognizing there may be less risk in
inner-city loans than with some of the other loans in their
portfolio," said Robert Gnaizda, a San Francisco
public-interest lawyer who has met with Security Pacific
officials over community-lending policies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Treasurys Rise in Volatile Session From Plunge
   In Gold Prices and a Spurt of Foreign Buying
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Stuart Drown
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA SWY KR X.DEC
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Plunging gold prices and a flurry of
foreign-investor purchases helped drive bond prices higher in
volatile trading activity.
   "It was a seesaw session," said William Sullivan, a
money-market economist at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. "Each
time the market ran toward the higher end of the range,
sellers came in to take profits and knocked the market
lower," he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond, for example, moved
in a wide one-point range yesterday, rising as much as 5/8
point and falling nearly 1/4 point. The bond ended 3/8 point
higher, a gain of $3.75 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount.
   Traders on Wall Street said bond prices spurted in early
trading as investors in Saudi Arabia dumped gold and used the
proceeds to buy intermediate-term Treasury notes. On the New
York Commodity Exchange, the June gold futures contract fell
by $15 an ounce, but ended $11.80 lower at $364.60. Other
commodity prices also declined.
   Cash also flowed into the U.S. Treasury market from
Canada. Some investors have grown jittery over the Canadian
government's inability to settle a dispute with
French-speaking Quebec, which wants to be recognized as a
"distinct society" within Canada.
   During times of political uncertainty, some investors sell
other types of securities and buy U.S. Treasury bonds, which
are considered the safest in the world. This so-called
"flight-to-quality" investing has exacerbated the Canadian
bond market's problems.
   On Tuesday, Canadian bonds had their worst rout in recent
memory, with some issues falling more than two points. But
the Canadian market recovered slightly yesterday, with
intermediate-term issues ending about 1/2 point higher and
long-term bonds ending nearly one point higher.
   Meanwhile, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady told Congress
that cost of the savings-and-loan bailout is soaring. He now
estimates the cost of the bailout could reach $130 billion,
up considerably from earlier estimates. The news was expected
to hit the market hard, because the Treasury will likely have
to borrow the bailout funds in the bond market. The added
supply could put upward pressure on interest rates.
   Fears of higher rates, however, were offset by comments
made by Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan.
Testifying before the Senate Banking Committee, Mr. Greenspan
said the overall effect of thrift rescue borrowings on
interest rates is "very moderate" and not of great concern to
him.
   Dealers said that trading was extremely active yesterday,
which is unusual considering the Treasury was set to auction
two-year notes. Typically, trading activity is quiet on
auction days, in part because surprises at the auction have
the potential to roil the financial markets.
   Yesterday's auction, however, was fairly routine. The
Treasury sold $10.88 billion of two-year notes at an average
yield of 8.52%. In when-issued trading activity, the yield on
the notes fell to 8.49%, a sign the notes continued to draw
good demand after the auction was completed.
   As expected, individual investors had a healthy appetite
for the new notes. Small investors typically purchase at
Treasury auctions through noncompetitive tenders, which
yesterday totaled $1.67 billion.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   After a steady climb all week, the junk bond market took a
breather yesterday.
   Prices of most junk bonds, speculative-grade bonds with
low credit ratings or no credit ratings at all, ended
unchanged to slightly weaker.
   Among the go-go junk bonds, or actively traded,
better-quality names, that showed signs of fatigue this
session were Duracell Holdings Corp.'s 13.5% subordinated
debentures which slipped 1/4 point to end at 103 1/4.
   Also falling back were junk bonds of Kroger Co. and
Safeway Inc. Kroger's 13 1/8% subordinated debentures,
maturing in 2001, slipped 1/8 point to end at 103 5/8 while
Safeway's 12% subordinated debentures, maturing in 1998, lost
1/4 point to end at 100 1/2.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury notes and bonds ended higher yesterday, after a
volatile trading session.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of
101 27/32 to yield 8.57% compared with 101 15/32 to yield
8.60%. The latest 10-year notes ended at a price of 101 27/32
to yield 8.58% compared with 101 15/32 to yield 8.63%.
   Short-term rates moved lower yesterday. The discount rate
on three-month Treasury bills fell to 7.65% for a
bond-equivalent yield of 7.89% compared with a discount rate
of 7.74% for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.98% on Tuesday.
   Here are details of yesterday's auction:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it.
                                                                                                       

   Applications ...............  $37,565,980,000
   Accepted bids ..............  $10,883,045,000
   Accepted at low price ......              10%
   Accepted noncompetitively ..   $1,665,000,000
   Average price (Rate) .......   99.964 (8.52%)
   High price (Rate)  .........   99.982 (8.51%)
   Low price (Rate)  ..........   99.946 (8.53%)
   Interest rate  .............           8 1/2%
                                                                                                       

   The notes are dated May 31 and mature May 31, 1992.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Gains of about 3/8 point were registered by most mortgage
securities.
   But some traders said that activity in premium coupon
issues, which posted advances of less than 1/4 point, was
slim.
   Activity in that sector was impeded by Tuesday's Public
Securities Association announcement that it will impose
trading curbs on certain high-coupon mortgage issues, mainly
Government National Mortgage Association pass-through
securities, which will be aimed at stopping issuance of
high-coupon mortgages that have experienced rapid prepayment
rates.
   The PSA seeks to end a pattern in which high-coupon issues
are being offered and then quickly refinanced. Investors who
have been paying premiums of as much as eight or nine points
for the issues are finding these securities being paid off
much more rapidly than expected, which sharply reduces the
value of their purchase. Most of the affected securities were
issued in the past 1 1/2 years.
   Active mortgage securities matched gains in 10-year
Treasury notes, keeping spreads stable.
   Ginnie Mae 9% issues, at 8.72%, were trading at a 1.12
percentage-point spread over Treasurys. Late Tuesday, the
spread was quoted around the same level.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bonds ended basically unchanged in quiet
dealings, with issues showing gains of 1/8 to 3/8 point in
spots.
   Among actively traded bonds, the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.20% issue of 2018 was virtually unchanged at 97
7/8 to yield 7.36%.
   No large municipal issues are expected to be priced today.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   British government bonds, called gilts, ended lower on a
larger-than-expected U.K. trade deficit in April.
   But because significant support was seen around the day's
lows, some traders believe the rally that began in gilts late
last month may not be over.
   Among benchmarks, the 11.75% bonds due in 2003/2007 were
down 3/4 of a point at 100 13/32 to yield 11.67% while the
12% notes due 1995 were off 9/32 at 99 5/32 to yield 12.21%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- CMS Energy Corp.:
   Panel Limits Proceeds Use
   From Midland-Assets Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMS
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Michigan's utility commission restricted the ways CMS
Energy Corp. can use $1.5 billion it planned to get after the
sale of Midland Cogeneration Venture assets.
   The order comes after a state court injunction that barred
CMS from transferring the funds. CMS was scheduled to receive
$1.2 billion in notes and $341 million in equity related to
the cogeneration venture from its Consumers Power Co. unit,
in exchange for CMS debentures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CMS stock fell a sharp $2.375 to close at $28.625
yesterday in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange.
   The commission said in its order that CMS, based in
Dearborn, can use proceeds from the transaction only "in ways
that will secure {Consumers Power's} financial health." The
commission said that may include repaying about $750 million
in Consumers Power bank debt and maintaining a balanced
capital structure for the unit.
   CMS called the order "unlawful," particularly the
"attempted assertion over the non-utility, non-jurisdictional
assets of the company." CMS said it will appeal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   WPPSS Bonds Are Given
   A Higher Rating by S&amp;P
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it raised the
rating on Washington Public Power Supply System's $6.3
billion of revenue bonds outstanding for WPPSS units 1, 2 and
3 to double-A from double-A-minus.
   The rating concern said it also upgraded to double-A from
double-A-minus $17.1 million of WPPSS bonds issued for the
Hanford generating project and $119 million of bonds issued
by the Eugene, Ore., Water &amp; Electric Board for the Trojan
nuclear project.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Standard &amp; Poor's also said it has given a double-A rating
to the supply system's planned offering next month of between
$600 million and $800 million of refunding revenue bonds for
WPPSS units 2 and 3, which didn't default.
   The higher credit rating "reflects the improved financial
flexibility of the Bonneville Power Administration," which
secures all these bonds through net billing agreements, S&amp;P
said.
   Scott Clements, WPPSS manager of refinancing and
investment operations, said the supply system was delighted
by the upgrade. "We think Bonneville will continue to benefit
from the refunding as we complete the rest of the program,
hopefully before the end of the year," Mr. Clements said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Kingfisher PLC:
   British Government Denies
   Retailer's Takeover Attempt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP U.KGF DXN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   The United Kingdom's Monopolies and Mergers Commission
said that it wouldn't allow retailer Kingfisher PLC to
proceed with its hostile #461 million bid for retailer Dixons
PLC.
   The bid was referred to the commission in January. The
commission concluded that the proposed acquisition would have
combined the two largest retailers of electrical goods and
would bring about a "significant reduction" in the
competition of electrical retailing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Kingfisher bid had valued each Dixons share at 120
pence, and was conditional on its not being referred to the
commission.
   Kingfisher's units hold a combined market share of about
9.6%, while Dixons and its electrical-goods retail subsidiary
hold a market share of about 16%. Analysts reckon the
percentages for both companies are significantly higher in
some areas.
   Both Kingfisher and Dixons suspended their shares on the
London Stock Exchange pending the announcement, then resumed
trading, with the former closing up at 311 pence and the
latter closing down at 124 pence.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Builders Transport Inc.:
   Dissident Holder Files Suit
   Over Annual Meeting Date
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TRUK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   A dissident shareholder filed suit, demanding that
Builders Transport Inc. set a date for the company's annual
meeting.
   The holder, David C. Walentas, filed the suit in Delaware
Chancery Court. Mr. Walentas and Stanford M. Dinstein,
another holder, hold a total of roughly 6.8% of the Camden,
S.C., trucking company's 4.9 million shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In February, Builders Transport signed a non-binding
letter of intent to be acquired for $15 a share, or $73.6
million, by closely held Comcar Industries Inc., an
Auburndale, Fla., trucking company. In December, Builders
Transport rebuffed a $13-a-share offer from the two
shareholders.
   Mr. Walentas intends to solicit proxies at the annual
meeting in an effort to replace the board, said Jonathan
Wagner, attorney for Mr. Walentas.
   The company hasn't scheduled the annual meeting because it
is reviewing another takeover proposal it received from Trism
Inc., the Joplin, Mo., parent of trucking firm Tri-State
Motor Transit Inc. of Delaware, said Robert E. Lee Garner,
Builders Transport's general counsel and corporate secretary.
Trism has proposed to pay $14 cash plus $3 of preferred stock
for each Builders Transport share.
   The company has sued Mr. Walentas in federal court in
Columbia, S.C., charging him with violating securities laws;
Mr. Walentas has countersued to invalidate an employee stock
ownership plan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Banks and Brazil Discuss
   Debt-Equity Swap Fund
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   U.MID LATAM CMB J.BOT
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Midland Bank PLC is leading commercial-bank
talks with the Brazilian government to establish a $1.5
billion fund of bank claims that can be swapped into equity
in state-owned companies Brazil intends to transfer to
private hands.
   A spokesman for Midland -- its $2 billion in loans
outstanding to Brazil makes it the country's biggest British
banking creditor -- said the company has had "preliminary
discussions" with Brazilian officials about the fund. The
bank hopes to reach a preliminary accord in the next few
months, prior to a September launch. Chase Manhattan Corp.,
New York, and Bank of Tokyo are among the banks considering
joining the fund as sponsors, Midland said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The discussions come as Brazil, pursuing its bold
anti-inflation program, prepares to resume negotiations on
its $115 billion foreign debt and mount its drive to sell
state companies. Brazil hasn't paid interest on its $65
billion of medium-term and long-term bank debt since
September.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Wednesday, May 23, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 5/16% high, 8 3/16% low, 8 5/16% near
closing bid, 8 5/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.075% 15 to 149 days; 8.05% 150 to 179
days; 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.15%
30 days; 8.15% 60 days; 8.15% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.79% one month; 7.81% two
months; 7.84% three months; 7.99% six months; 8.30% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.20% one month; 8.25% three months;
8.30% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.06% 30 days; 8.05% 60 days; 8.04%
90 days; 8.02% 120 days; 8.01% 150 days; 7.98% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/4% - 8 1/8% one month; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% two months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% three months; 8
7/16% - 8 5/16% four months; 8 1/2% - 8 3/8% five months; 8
1/2% - 8 3/8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/4% one month;
8 3/8% three months; 8 1/2% six months; 8 3/4% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.75; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, May 21, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.74% 13 weeks; 7.79% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.28%, standard conventional fixedrate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.23%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.87%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.85%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Carbide Names
   Lichtenberger
   To Added Posts
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   UK WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Union Carbide Corp. appointed H. William Lichtenberger,
who has been president of its chemicals and plastics unit for
the past four years, to the additional post of president and
chief operating officer of the corporation.
   Robert D. Kennedy, chairman and chief executive officer,
gave up the title of president, and the chief operating
officer slot is a new one at Carbide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, Mr. Lichtenberger, 54 years old, and Joseph
E. Geoghan, 52, vice president, general counsel and
secretary, were elected directors, bringing board membership
to 14.
   The Danbury, Conn., company also named John A. Clerico
chief financial officer. Mr. Clerico, 48, has been vice
president, treasurer and principal financial officer, and has
filled the top financial officer slot since J. Clayton
Stephenson, former vice chairman and chief financial officer,
retired a year ago.
   Mr. Kennedy, in an interview, said the promotions
"recognize some very capable people," and take some pressure
off him. Mr. Kennedy, 57, said that Mr. Lichtenberger's new
responsibilities "will broaden his experience." Asked whether
the moves were intended to set up a succession, he said: "We
don't get into the business of nominating heirs apparent. But
the organization speaks for itself."
   Mr. Lichtenberger joined the big chemical company 31 years
ago as a research engineer and held a number of positions in
Carbide's industrial gases business before being named
president of the solvents and coatings materials division in
1985. In 1986, he was named president of the chemicals and
plastics operation. The unit had $5.6 billion in revenue in
1989 and contributed nearly 80% to the company's operating
profit last year.
   Reporting to Mr. Lichtenberger are vice presidents for
strategic planning, human resources and the controller and
principal accounting officer. Other top executives will
continue to report to Mr. Kennedy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MCA WNEWS WONE
</CO>
<LP>
   PUBLISHING: Ziff Communications, a large publisher of
computer magazines, formed a new division, Ziff-Davis Press,
to publish computer-related books. It will publish its first
titles in the first quarter of 1991 in conjunction with PC
Magazine.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   OLYMPICS: Westwood One Inc.'s NBC Radio Networks unit
received exclusive rights to broadcast the 1992 Summer
Olympics in Barcelona, Spain, to U.S. radio audiences in
English. Westwood also will provide promotional opportunities
for the Olympics on its other outlets.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: MCA Inc. said Jon Gumpert was named senior
vice president of legal and business affairs for its
Universal Pictures unit. He was executive vice president of
Odyssey Entertainment Ltd.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Baker Hughes Inc.:
   Definitive Pact to Acquire
   Instrument Concern Is Set
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BHI X.TRA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Baker Hughes Inc. said it signed a definitive agreement to
buy the instruments group of Tracor Holdings Inc. for
approximately $95 million.
   "The Tracor Instruments Group, its products and its
employees will provide us with a strong addition to the
instrumentation segment of Baker Hughes Process Equipment,"
said James D. Woods, chairman and chief executive officer of
Baker Hughes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tracor Instruments Group, which makes analytical
instrumentation, had revenue of $103 million last year. It is
a division of privately held Tracor Holdings of Austin,
Texas.
   Houston-based Baker Hughes provides products and services
for the oil, gas and process industries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Service Resources Corp.:
   Unit of Household Finance
   Offers Debt Commitment
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   SRC
</CO>
<LP>
   Service Resources Corp. said it received a commitment from
a unit of Household Finance Corp., Prospect Heights, Ill., to
refinance its existing debt obligations.
   The company said the $40 million facility committed by
Household Commercial Financial Services Inc. includes a $15
million revolving credit loan and a $25 million term loan.
Service Resources didn't specify additional terms.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it will use part of the proceeds of the
refinancing to repay all of the principal and accrued and
unpaid interest on its 9% and 11.5% debentures, which have
been in default since November 1988.
   Service Resources said it isn't any longer pursuing the
sale of its sole operating subsidiary, the former CPY
Management Services Inc., which has formally changed its name
to Ameriscribe Inc. Ameriscribe provides mailroom and other
back-office support to users such as law firms.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Wearne Brothers Ltd.:
   Singapore Company Offers
   To Buy U.S.-Based Qume
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   QUME
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Wearne Brothers Ltd., a Singapore-based multinational,
said it plans to acquire all shares outstanding of Qume
Corp., a Santa Clara, Calif.-based computer-peripherals
company.
   Wearne said an offer for the Qume shares at $7.25 a share
has been made by New Qume Corp., a company started by a
recently formed partnership between Wearne, Qume's chairman
and chief executive, David Lee, and other unnamed investors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Qume
shares closed at $6.625, unchanged.
   As the proposed acquisition is subject to the partners
obtaining sufficient financing, Wearne Brothers will provide
a $70 million loan to the partnership.
   In a separate announcement, Wearne Brothers said group
pretax profit rose 45% to 28.4 million Singapore dollars
($15.3 million) for the financial half year ended March 31,
compared with S$19.6 million for the year-earlier period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Inch Up to New High
   Despite Pressure of Profit-Taking
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Dow Jones Industrial Average kept this
week's string of all-time highs intact, as late buying pushed
the stock market higher in moderately active trading.
   Although profit-taking in response to the market's
record-breaking rally put share prices under pressure for
most of the session, the industrial average eked out a gain
of 4.03 to 2856.26.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The average managed to set its third consecutive record
close -- and the sixth in the past eight sessions -- despite
heavy selling in Westinghouse Electric and weakness in a
number of blue-chip oil stocks, reflecting a sharp decline in
oil prices.
   "The market is still exhibiting a decided reluctance to
give in to profit-taking," said Eugene E. Peroni Jr.,
director of technical research at Janney Montgomery Scott,
Philadelphia.
   Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index rose 0.86 to 359.29,
about half a point from its all-time high of 359.80, set last
Oct. 9. The Dow Jones Equity Market Index went up 0.68 to
334.28 and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index gained
0.27 to 195.85.
   Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by 761 to 745 on
the Big Board, where volume fell to 172,330,000 shares from
203,350,000 Tuesday.
   Stocks got off to a slow start as market players reacted
negatively to early weakness in bonds, which dropped in spite
of news that April orders for durable goods fell 4.1% -- a
sharper decline than expected.
   After sliding to session lows at midday, the market
briefly turned mixed at midafternoon on some
arbitrage-related buy programs, in which traders sold
stock-index futures contracts and bought baskets of stocks in
order to lock in profits from price differences between them.
   But when the bond market rebound that preceded the move in
stocks faded, share prices did the same, and they didn't turn
higher until the final minutes of trading.
   Some additional arbitrage-related buying and short
covering contributed to the upturn, said John Burnett, a
senior vice president of block trading at Donaldson, Lufkin &amp;
Jenrette, but he added that "real, no-kidding-around buying"
from institutions also surfaced.
   "We saw good solid buying across the board," Mr. Burnett
said, adding that portfolio managers are "afraid of missing
the boat" if the market should continue its advance instead
of giving them a chance to purchase stocks at lower prices.
   "Any kind of pullbacks here are going to be very nominal,
and I think you're going to see a lot of money flooding into
the market" on any weakness, added Alexander M. Purdie Jr.,
head of block trading at Robinson-Humphrey Co., Atlanta. "The
market's still looking very attractive in a lot of ways."
   Westinghouse fell 1 1/4 to 34 3/4 in Big Board composite
trading of 1.9 million shares. Shearson Lehman Hutton reduced
its investment ratings on the stock, citing expectations of a
slowdown in its earnings growth next year, and lowered its
1990 and 1991 earnings estimates.
   Oil stocks among the Dow industrials to show weakness
included Exxon, which went down 1/2 to 47 3/8; Texaco, down
1/2 to 59 3/8, and Chevron, off 5/8 to 69 3/8. But USX gained
3/4 to 33 3/4 and Du Pont, which owns Conoco, rose 1/2 to 40
3/8.
   July crude-oil futures tumbled 78 cents a barrel to $18.14
in New York trading, and the plunge left its mark on other
major oil stocks. Amoco fell 1/2 to 53 1/4, Mobil slipped 1/4
to 62 1/8 and Unocal slid 1/2 to 30 3/4.
   Several airline stocks dropped despite the oil market's
weakness, which could lead to lower fuel costs, after Trans
World Airlines announced that it would lower domestic
round-trip fares by as much as 30%. AMR, which owns American
Airlines, fell 1/2 to 64 1/2; Delta Air Lines lost 1 to 76
1/2, and USAir Group lost 1 3/8 to 27 7/8.
   Deere tumbled 2 7/8 to 73 on 1.7 million shares as a
second day of profit-taking weighed down the stock, which set
a 52-week high during Tuesday's session but posted a decline
of 1 5/8 points. Wertheim Schroder removed the stock from a
list of recommended issues and lowered its investment rating,
citing its belief that Deere's shares were fully valued.
   Compaq Computer, a star performer in the market's climb to
record highs, added 3 1/2 to 122 7/8. Moody's Investors
Service upgraded its rating on a $200 million debt issue that
Compaq has called for redemption; the agency cited the
company's cash flow and strong balance sheet as reasons for
its action.
   Other technology issues also added to their recent gains,
including Texas Instruments, which gained 2 1/8 to 43 3/8 as
1.3 million shares changed hands. International Business
Machines advanced 1 to 118 3/4, Digital Equipment gained 1
3/4 to 93 1/4 and Hewlett-Packard rose 1 1/8 to 47 3/8. But
Unisys, left behind in the sector's rally, slipped 1/8 to 14
1/8.
   On the other hand, precious-metals stocks paced the
market's retreat amid a sharp decline in the price of gold.
Homestake Mining dropped 1 3/8 to 18 3/8, Placer Dome dipped
1 to 16 1/8, Battle Mountain Gold lost 5/8 to 13 1/4 and ASA
Ltd. retreated 2 3/8 to 49 1/8 in Big Board dealings. On the
American Stock Exchange, Echo Bay Mines fell 1/2 to 13,
Pegasus Gold lost 3/4 to 11 1/4 and Corona A dropped 1/2 to 7
1/8.
   Citicorp fell 7/8 to 22 7/8 in the aftermath of Moody's
downgrading of credit ratings on the bank holding company and
its Citibank unit. The move included Citicorp's commercial
paper, which hadn't been affected last month when Standard &amp;
Poor's made a similar move.
   Meanwhile, shares of two other big city banks --
BankAmerica, which gained 3/4 to 30 1/8, and Bankers Trust
New York, which added 1 5/8 to 43 1/2 -- rallied after County
NatWest Securities cited the stocks as better values than
Citicorp. Analyst Stephen Berman said the two companies have
good balance sheets and reasonably good loan quality.
   Ranking high on the Big Board's mostactive list was
Alliance Global Environmental Fund, a new issue, which closed
well above the price of its initial offering. Six million
shares of the closed-end mutual fund were sold at $15 apiece;
the stock rose 6.7% to 16 on trading of 2.1 million shares.
   Thai Capital Fund, the latest entry among single-country
mutual funds, also fared well on its initial day of trading.
The stock closed at 12 3/8, above its initial offering price
of $12 a share.
   British Gas fell 3/4 to 36 after a possible rival bidder
surfaced for Consumers' Gas, which the company has agreed to
acquire.
   ProNational Gas, a firm headed by a former chief financial
officer of Consumers' Gas, said it opposes the proposed
acquisition and plans its own offer.
   Circuit City Stores fell 1 5/8 to 24 7/8. Securities and
Exchange Commission filings show that the company's chairman
and president sold significant portions of their stakes in
Circuit City last month.
   Donaldson, which reported that net income for the fiscal
quarter ended in April rose 61% from a year earlier and
increased its quarterly dividend by about 16%, jumped 2 3/4
to 30.
   The Amex Market Value Index, hurt by the weakness in oil
and gold stocks, fell 0.20 to 359.65. Volume totaled
16,550,000 shares.
   Forest Laboratories rose 1 5/8 to 44. Wertheim Schroder
repeated a buy recommendation on the stock and set price
targets of $55 to $57 a share for the next 12 months and $70
for the next 24 months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Telecommunications Firms
   Attract Venture Capital
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Telecommunications companies attracted the
most computer-technology venture capital investment in 1989
while funding of computer software and services companies
fell sharply, according to a survey by Technologic Partners.
   Of the $1.24 billion invested, more than 25%, or $320
million, went to telecommunications products and services
companies. That's an increase of 55%, said Technologic
Partners, a Manhattan-based research firm. It found that
1988's No. 1 target for investment, computer software and
services, fell 23% to $208 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "In the last five years some of the most successful new
companies have been telecommunications companies," said
Richard A. Shaffer, principal at Technologic. Meanwhile, he
said, the computer business has become a hodgepodge of
technologies and players that confounds investors.
   "Seed," or early stage financing, a growing segment in the
past five years, was another loser in 1989, falling 10% to
$62 million, or 33 seed financings, compared with $69
million, or 41 seeds, in 1988.
   While later-stage, or "mezzanine," financings also
declined, middle-stage investments garnered greater support
from investors who held back until companies were well under
way. Mr. Shaffer said this should continue as long as the
market for initial public offerings remains slow.
   Other top targets for investment, according to
Technologic, included computer peripheral companies,
third-ranked at $140 million; integrated circuit
manufacturers ($133 million); and computer systems suppliers
($130 million).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wednesday's Markets:
   Stocks Rise
   On Gains
   In Bonds
   ---
   Shares Down Most
   Of Day; Dollar Is Up
   Against Yen, Mark
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices, which were down most of the day,
eked out a last-minute gain in reaction to the volatile bond
market's midafternoon advances.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 4.03 points to close
at 2856.26, its third consecutive record high, in active
trading. Long-term U.S. Treasury bond prices finished
modestly higher -- up 3/8 point, or $3.75 for each $1,000 of
face amount -- in heavy trading. The dollar gained against
the mark and the yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Helping push bond prices higher against periodic waves of
profit-taking were lower commodity prices, particularly gold,
and an economic report that confirmed the economy is slowing.
Durable goods orders in April fell a bit more than had been
expected. This news reinforced views that inflation isn't
getting out of hand. Inflation reduces bonds' investment
appeal.
   Heavy buying by foreign investors also fueled the
bond-market rally, as did comments in Washington that
government borrowing to fund the thrift bailout shouldn't
affect interest rates. Finally, some traders speculated that
some of the money Saudi Arabia raised by selling gold in
London may have found its way into U.S. Treasury securities.
   The stock market tracked bonds much of the day. Along with
the industrial average, Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index and
the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index posted their
first gains of the day in the last half hour of trading.
   "Bonds definitely took stocks higher at the last minute,"
said Susan Del Signore, trading vice president at Hartford,
Conn.-based Travelers Investment Management.
   Paul Hennessey, vice president of equities trading at
Boston Co., said the stock market is holding up well and may
inch higher in the next few days. "There's so much money
still on the sidelines looking for an opportunity to get into
the market," he said. But looking further down the road -- a
week to 10 days -- Mr. Hennessey expects a drop of about 100
points.
   After that, he suggests, investors and analysts will look
for fresh signals of the market's next move. For one thing,
he says, "we'll begin to look at where we are in terms of
corporate profits at the end of the second quarter."
   Wayne Wong, managing director in charge of fixed-income
investing at Marinvest, foresees a 200-point correction in
the industrial average just around the corner. He thinks bond
prices will tread water until a clearer picture of the
economy emerges.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose in active trading, with 172.3 million
shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange.
Advancing issues barely outnumbered decliners, 761 to 745.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices climbed. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond eased to 8.57%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar gained slightly. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.6765 marks and 151.45 yen, compared
with 1.6736 marks and 151.20 yen Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Ranks Hovis McDougall PLC:
   Pretax Profit Rises 0.2%;
   Drop for Year Is Expected
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.RHM
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ranks Hovis McDougall PLC reported a slim 0.2% rise in
pretax profit for the six months to March 3 and warned that
full-year earnings are unlikely to match the record levels
attained last year.
   Pretax profit for the food group climbed to #81.7 million
($138.3 million) from #81.5 million the previous year, below
the range of market expectations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   RHM cited increased competition and a 60% surge in
interest costs as factors that eroded profit. As well, the
group said weather conditions in the U.K. hurt consumer
spending. "The hot summer of 1989 adversely affected
consumers' spending patterns on food, and the return to more
normal expenditure was delayed by the mild winter," RHM said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- CPC International Inc.:
   Firm Forms Joint Venture
   With East German Concern
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CPC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CPC International Inc., Englewood Cliffs, N.J., said it
formed a joint venture with an East German food concern to
make and distribute consumer foods under CPC's Knorr
trademark.
   CPC will have a majority interest in the new joint venture
with VEB Suppina Auerbach. James R. Eiszner, CPC's chairman
and chief executive officer, said CPC has been "exporting
products to several Eastern European countries for some time
and has had licensing agreements with Yugoslavia since 1968."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Knorr product sales in Europe approach $1 billion
annually, CPC said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Chemical Banking Corp.:
   McDonald's Franchise Loans
   Are Packaged Into Securities
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MCD CHL
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Chemical Banking Corp. is packaging into securities a
bunch of loans to holders of McDonald's Corp. fast-food
franchises.
   Two Chemical units, Texas Commerce Bank and Chemical
Securities Inc., announced the formation of a separate
company, Golden Managers Acceptance Corp. That company, known
as Golden Mac, is making loans to McDonald's franchise owners
for their restaurants or improvements. The loans then will be
used as collateral for top-rated commercial paper, a very
short-term corporate IOU bought by institutional investors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Golden Mac is designed to provide existing and new owners
of McDonald's franchise restaurants with an alternative
source of capital at highly competitive rates, Texas Commerce
and Chemical said. Chemical Securities plans to get the
program going in early June with the sale of about $20
million of commercial paper. Golden Mac is authorized to
issue $125 million of paper, which has been dubbed "McPaper"
by some in the market.
   The McDonald's program marks the first time that franchise
loans have been packaged into securities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Autos:
   Honda Joins Fray With Dealer Incentives on Some Cars
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   HMC
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Honda Motor Co. has quietly adopted a dealer incentive
program to spur sales of some of its Civic cars.
   The move by Honda, which has largely managed to stay out
of the auto industry's widespread price-cutting fray, is the
latest indication of just how tough the U.S. car market is.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales of all cars and trucks, imported and domestic,
during the first four months of this year fell only 2.6%
below 1989 levels, but that's largely because the U.S. Big
Three have been propping up their sales with hefty incentives
averaging roughly $1,000 a vehicle. However, mid-May sales of
domestically built Honda cars in the latest 10-day period
were up 22.4% from a year earlier.
   Japanese and European auto makers have special lease
programs on many of their more expensive cars. Chrysler Corp.
has even been forced to put incentives on some of its vaunted
minivans for the second time in five months.
   The Honda incentive, disclosed to dealers last month but
not announced publicly, is only the third that the company's
Honda division has ever had. The current program, like two
last year, provides cash only to dealers who meet certain
sales goals.
   Such a direct-to-dealer program is typical of Japanese car
companies, which prefer dealer incentives over giving money
directly to consumers. The consumer programs traditionally
favored by the U.S. Big Three have been criticized for
hurting the image and resale value of the vehicles involved.
   Honda's latest incentive gives dealers between $300 and
$600 for each Civic four-door sedan and station wagon they
sell. These two models accounted for roughly half the 79,067
Civics sold by Honda dealers from January through April.
   The incentive program, which runs from April 13 to June
30, "allows us to lower the prices on the cars without the
customer knowing about it," says Roger Paris, general manager
of Plaza Honda in the Brooklyn section of New York City.
   Honda, which for a long time appeared nearly impervious to
market downturns because of its popularity, employed dealer
incentives in April and May of 1989 to reverse a
first-quarter decline in total U.S. sales. The year-ago
program covered all Honda models, not just certain Civics.
Sales slid again in June when the incentives expired and
Honda revived its program for July and August.
   In the first three months of 1990, Honda sold 56,714
Civics, an 11.5% increase over the same period of 1989. But
in April, Honda apparently discovered its Civic sales were
badly lagging behind those of April 1989, when the auto maker
had dealer incentives in place for the entire month. Even
with the new program, however, Civic sales for all of April
were down nearly 12%.
   Since then, Honda dealers report an improvement in sales.
"It's working," says Russ Darrow, who owns a Honda dealership
in Mequon, Wis. "Honda sales are going along quite briskly."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hunt Brothers Win Ruling
   In $314 Million Tax Case
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In a decision that could trigger new
wrangling over the remains of the Hunt oil fortune, a U.S.
Tax Court judge here ruled that brothers Lamar Hunt, William
Herbert Hunt and Nelson Bunker Hunt don't owe $314 million in
additional federal income taxes for 1982.
   The Internal Revenue Service case against the Hunts, which
was heard last summer, involved a partnership they
established to refinance the huge debts resulting from their
speculation in the 1979-1980 silver market. The IRS claimed
the partnership was an elaborate ruse used by the brothers to
avoid paying taxes on a loan they never repaid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But in a lengthy decision, Judge Jules G. Korner III sided
with the Hunts, ruling that the partnership was valid. He
also criticized IRS tactics, such as last-minute subpoenaing
of numerous bank officials, calling it an effort to "cast an
all-encompassing net in the search for information with which
to build a case."
   An IRS spokesman said the government hadn't decided
whether to appeal the tax court decision. Federal attorneys
involved in the case couldn't be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Carnival Cruise Lines Inc.:
   Cruise Line Files Lawsuit
   Against Two Finnish Firms
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CCL C.WRT
</CO>
<LP>
   Carnival Cruise Lines Inc., Miami, said it is seeking more
than $700 million in damages from two Finnish companies that
contracted to build three cruise ships for Carnival.
   In a suit filed in U.S. District Court in Miami, Carnival
alleges that Oy Wartsila AB and Valmet Oy AB, both based in
Helsinki, procured contracts to build the ships by
misrepresenting the financial condition of their shipbuilding
subsidiary, Wartsila Marine Industries Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wartsila Marine filed for bankruptcy in October 1989
without fulfilling the contracts, Carnival said. Masa Yards,
a shipbuilding operation formed by Wartsila Marine's
customers, eventually completed construction of two Carnival
ships -- the Fantasy, which began service in March, and the
Ecstasy. A third ship, the Sensation, is yet to be built.
   Officials at Oy Wartsila and Valmet Oy couldn't be reached
for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE SOVIET UNION WILL HOLD a national referendum on
economic changes.
   Indicating that Moscow believes the government must have
clear public support before starting a potentially
destabilizing five-year transition to a market economy, the
Kremlin said it would hold a nationwide vote on the plan. It
was unclear whether the public would endorse the economic
program, which would double food prices, lead to closures of
inefficient factories, and eventually allow private ownership
of most businesses. Tens of thousands of jobs could be lost.
Premier Ryzhkov is to present the plan today to the Supreme
Soviet, or parliament.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lithuania offered to suspend some laws passed since
declaring independence March 11, but the republic stopped
short of meeting Gorbachev's demand to rescind the
declaration itself.
   ---
   THE HOUSE VOTED to approve wideranging anti-pollution
legislation.
   The clean-air bill, cleared by a 401-21 vote, would impose
$21.5 billion a year in costs on industry when it is fully in
effect. Prior to passage, the chamber defied a presidential
veto threat and added a $250 million unemployment-assistance
program. The lawmakers also approved plans to launch a pilot
program in California requiring production of cars capable of
using non-gasoline fuels. The Senate approved a clean-air
bill last month.
   House Democratic leaders agreed to expedite $720 million
in aid to Panama and Nicaragua without resolving the issue of
Salvadoran military assistance.
   ---
   NATO defense ministers called for a quick East-West
agreement to reduce troops, tanks and other non-nuclear arms
in Europe. At the two-day meeting in Brussels, Cheney
acknowledged a safety problem with U.S. artillery shells on
the Continent, but said it was fixed and there never was a
risk of accidental nuclear explosions.
                                                                                                       

   Baker said Bush will press Gorbachev to cut conventional
forces in Europe. The secretary of state, discussing the
agenda for next week's superpower summit, also said it was
unlikely that the Soviet Union would be granted
most-favored-nation trade status at the meeting in Washington
because Moscow hasn't moved to ease emigration laws.
   ---
   The Senate cleared a provision banning nine types of
semi-automatic weapons, a defeat for gun lobbyists that cast
doubt on the future of an omnibus anti-crime package. The
senators also narrowly rejected an attempt by Republicans to
toughen Democratic proposals to limit appeals by deathrow
inmates.
   ---
   HHS Secretary Sullivan plans to recommend to states
restrictions on cigarette vending machines, a legal smoking
age of 19, and tougher licensing provisions as part of a
stepped-up campaign against smoking by minors. Separately,
Harvard University said it has sold most of its investments
in tobacco companies.
   ---
   Israeli troops enforced curfews in the occupied lands, and
Palestinians observed a strike to protest Sunday's killing of
Arabs. Israel's government, meanwhile, indirectly accused the
U.S. of perpetuating violence in the West Bank and Gaza
Strip, while Washington said it was prepared to consider the
use of U.N. observers in the region.
   ---
   Poland offered to meet with strikers who have disrupted
rail traffic across the northwest part of the country. But
Warsaw ruled out pay increases, saying such raises would
sabotage efforts at economic restructuring. Solidarity
founder Walesa said the four-day-old walkout threatened
democracy, and he urged the railwaymen to return to work.
   ---
   British researchers found that a long-ignored form of
cholesterol in the blood, lipoprotein (a), may be capable of
causing coronary heart disease and heart attacks. The new
finding is likely to be important in doctors' decisions on
which drugs to use to lower high cholesterol levels in
certain patients.
   ---
   Federal health officials reported that overall conditions
in the nation's nursing homes have improved. But a 93-volume
survey of 15,600 homes that receive Medicare and Medicaid
payments found that many fall short of standards for handling
food and administering drugs.
   ---
   North appeared before a federal judge in Washington, but
left the courthouse without testifying before a grand jury
empaneled last week to investigate the Iran-Contra affair.
The former Reagan aide's short appearance suggests he may
have been subpoenaed and is challenging the order.
   ---
   South African police conducted house-to-house searches in
the black township of Thabong in the Orange Free State
province, where 12 people have died this week in clashes with
security forces and in mob attacks. The police confiscated
weapons and then drove a convoy to a neighboring white town
to allay fears of possible violence.
   ---
   Hungary's new coalition assumed power, pledging to seek
withdrawal from the Warsaw Pact and membership in the
European Community. The non-Communist legislature in Budapest
approved a program of national renewal that calls for
economic changes to slow the current 20% rate of inflation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Elf Signs Accord
   With Soviet Union
   On Oil Exploration
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   F.AQU FREST CHV
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine, the French oil company,
signed an oil exploration and production agreement with the
Soviet Union.
   The agreement, announced in Paris after being signed in
Moscow, provides Elf exploration rights on between 13,500 and
15,500 square miles in the Volga-Caspian region of the Soviet
Union.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Company and Soviet oil officials called it the first such
pact between the Soviet Union and a Western oil partner.
Several U.S. oil companies, including Chevron Corp., have
been negotiating with the Soviets but so far haven't
concluded exploration agreements.
   Few details of the Elf-Soviet agreement were disclosed,
and some still must be worked out. But Loik Le Floch-Prigent,
Elf's president, called it a "classic" exploration and
production agreement.
   Until recently, the Soviet Union restricted foreign oil
company participation to technical assistance. But the
government now admits its oil industry is having problems and
needs outside assistance. Oil production has been declining,
although the Soviet Union still is the world's largest
producer with output of slightly under 12 million barrels a
day.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Australia Blocks Merger
   Of Leading Bank, Insurer
   ----
   Special to the Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST A.ANZ
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANBERRA, Australia -- The Australian government said it
won't approve a proposed merger of Australia &amp; New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) with National Mutual Life
Association of Australasia Ltd.
   The proposed merger, announced in April, would have
created the biggest financial concern in Australia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Paul Keating, Australia's treasurer, said the merger would
be "contrary to the national interest and shouldn't proceed."
   ANZ is one of Australia's four biggest banks, while
National Mutual is the second-largest life-insurance company.
Therefore, Mr. Keating said, a merger "carries substantial
implications for the future structure and direction of the
financial system in this country."
   He said Australia needs effective competition in banking,
life insurance and financial services in general.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Negotiators Are Planning
   To Speed Budget Talks
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Congressional and White House negotiators
agreed to pick up the pace of budget summit talks after
Congress returns from its Memorial Day recess.
   "It's important that we get over the seminar stage and
into the negotiating stage within a brief period," White
House Budget Director Richard Darman said. "If they {the
talks} drag on and on, it tends to defeat the purpose."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At a meeting yesterday, Mr. Darman and the congressional
coordinators of the talks, House Majority Leader Richard
Gephardt (D., Mo.) and Sen. Wyche Fowler (D., Ga.), scheduled
morning and afternoon sessions for June 6 and 7, aides said.
Their hope is to finish reviewing deficit forecasts and
previously proposed deficit-reduction plans at those sessions
or, if necessary, at another session on June 12.
   After that, Mr. Darman said, "I would hope we get down to
talking about possible compromises." Democrats insist the
next step is for the administration to offer a solution to
the deficit problem they have been outlining, but it isn't
clear the administration is willing to go along.
   So far, the talks have been taking place only for two or
three hours Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. They continue
this afternoon. Congress isn't in session next week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Rolm Sets Phone Link
   With Digital's VAXes
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DEC G.SIE IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW ORLEANS -- Rolm Co. said it will enable its telephone
switches to communicate with Digital Equipment Corp.'s VAX
computers, strengthening a recent trend toward cooperation
between switch and computer makers.
   Rolm, a Norwalk, Conn., joint venture of International
Business Machines Corp. of Armonk, N.Y., and Siemens AG of
West Germany, made the announcement at a trade conference
here. Earlier this month, IBM got the cooperation trend going
when it said it would let its computers "talk" to telephone
switches made by Rolm, Siemens, American Telephone &amp;
Telegraph Co., and the Northern Telecom Inc. unit of BCE Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Links between switches and computers allow callers' files
to appear on a computer screen as soon as a call is made,
enabling better customer service and opening up new marketing
opportunities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pic 'N' Save Corp.:
   Firm Offers Board Seats,
   Bid Panel to Hostile Suitor
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   PICN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pic 'N' Save Corp., struggling to fend off a hostile
investor group, offered the group minority representation on
its board and on a newly formed committee to evaluate bids to
buy the company.
   The Dominguez, Calif., retailer of closeout merchandise
put itself up for sale last week in an apparent effort to
discourage shareholders from joining Girard Partners L.P.'s
efforts to oust Pic 'N' Save's board. Girard has said it will
conduct its own auction for the company if it gains control.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pic 'N' Save reiterated that it stands ready to negotiate
all aspects of a confidentiality agreement with Girard to
induce the group to join in the company's bidding process.
Pic 'N' Save offered Girard two seats on its board, which
would be expanded to nine from seven members.
   The new committee would be expanded to five from three
members if Girard accepted the proffered board seats. Three
of Pic `N' Save's outside directors were named to the
committee, headed by Bruce Karatz, president and chief
executive officer of Kaufman &amp; Broad Home Corp. The other two
outside directors weren't included because they are scheduled
to be out of the country until mid-June, a Pic 'N' Save
spokesman said.
   In La Jolla, Calif., David H. Batchelder, Girard's
controlling partner, promptly rejected Pic 'N' Save's offer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Del Webb Corp.:
   Holders Appear to Approve
   Takeover-Rule Resolution
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WBB
</CO>
<LP>
   Del Webb Corp., Phoenix, Ariz., said a preliminary report
of inspectors of election for its May 16 annual meeting
indicated that a nonbinding shareholder resolution to remove
the company's anti-takeover provisions was approved by
shareholders.
   The proposal by Los Angeles-based Webbcott Holdings, which
owns a 9.7% stake in Webb and is controlled by director James
L. Cotter, requested that the board redeem shareholder rights
issued under a "poison pill" plan adopted last year. Del Webb
said 50.4% of the common stock outstanding voted for the
resolution.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Del Webb spokesman said a special committee of the real
estate development concern's board will consider all options
and will make a report to the board regarding the resolution.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Richton International Corp.:
   Jewelry Firm Says It Had
   Loss for Fiscal 4th Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RHT
</CO>
<LP>
   Richton International Corp., a jewelry concern, said it
expects to report a loss for its fiscal fourth quarter and a
profit for the year.
   For the year-earlier quarter, ended April 30, Richton
posted a loss of $3.2 million, or $1.16 a share, including a
$2.9 million one-time charge related to the downsizing of its
New York office. Net sales were $5.4 million. For fiscal
1989, it posted a loss of almost $3 million, or $1.07 a
share, on net sales of $30.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first three quarters of fiscal 1990, Richton
posted a profit of $528,000, or 19 cents a share, on net
sales of $18.2 million. The company said in New York that it
experienced a "significant weakening" in the period just
ended, but continues to take steps to reduce costs and
improve sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- B.A.T Industries PLC:
   Pretax Profit in 1st Period
   Fell 27% as Sales Rose 6.5%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BTI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   B.A.T Industries PLC, the British conglomerate that
recently fended off a hostile takeover bid by Sir James
Goldsmith's Hoylake Investments Ltd., reported a 27% plunge
in first-quarter pretax profit, citing losses at its U.K.
insurance unit.
   Pretax profit totaled #231 million ($391 million), down
from #318 million a year earlier and below most analysts'
expectations. The company blamed the decline on winter storm
related claims at its Eagle Start insurance unit. Total sales
climbed 6.5% to #5.10 billion from #4.79 billion. Profit
after taxes and minority interests declined 37% to #119
million from #188 millions. Per-share earnings slipped to
7.93 pence from 12.31 pence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chairman Patrick Sheehy said the first quarter "will not
be representative of the year as a whole. I expect the group
to be able to make solid progress in what is very much a
transitional year."
   B.A.T is in the process of completing the sale of several
large U.S. retail stores and the spinoff of its paper and
pulp manufacturer, Wiggins Teape Appleton.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- SmithKline Beecham PLC:
   Judge Approves $13 Million
   Settlement for Shareholders
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SBE
</CO>
<LP>
   Philadelphia Common Pleas Court Judge I. Raymond Kremer
approved a $13 million settlement on behalf of about 25,000
SmithKline Beckman Corp.'s shareholders on Tuesday.
   The $13 million will be paid pro-rata to shareholders of
SmithKline who held shares between April 10, 1989, and June
26, 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last year, several groups of SmithKline shareholders filed
class-action suits, alleging that the company's directors
breached their fiduciary duties by not seeking potential
acquirers willing to pay a higher price than the one offered
by Beecham Group PLC and by placing devices, such as a poison
pill and golden parachutes, in the way of a hostile bid.
SmithKline ultimately merged with Beecham to form SmithKline
Beecham PLC.
   According to the settlement agreement, the defendants
"vigorously deny all liability," but settled in order to
"avoid the substantial expense, inconvenience, and
distraction of continued litigation."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- DeKalb Energy Co.:
   Company Buys an Interest
   In 36 Oil and Gas Fields
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ENRGB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   DeKalb Energy Co. said it purchased an interest in 36
onshore oil and gas fields that it believes will increase its
proven U.S. reserves by more than 70%.
   The $130.2 million acquisition from Pittsburgh-based Royal
Producing Corp. Texas involves approximately 250 producing
wells, most of them located on the Texas Gulf Coast, and
continues DeKalb's announced strategy of concentrating its
activity in that region. The Denver-based oil and gas
producer acquired interests in 17 offshore lease blocks
earlier this year and has opened a Houston exploration
office.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bruce P. Bickner, DeKalb's chairman and chief executive,
said proven reserves from the properties are approximately
5.3 million barrels of oil and condensate and 50.4 billion
cubic feet of natural gas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sea-Land Services Inc.:
   Company to Assist Soviets
   In Handling Rail Freight
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CSX
</CO>
<IN>
RAILROADS (RAI)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sea-Land Services Inc. said it reached agreements with
cargo-shipping interests in the Soviet Union for Sea-Land to
share its transportation information and management systems.
   Alex Mandl, chairman and chief executive officer of
Sea-Land, an ocean container ship company, said Sea-Land will
help the Soviets improve their handling of containerized
freight on the Trans-Siberian Railroad between Asia and
Europe. Mr. Mandl said Sea-Land will provide information and
management resources, but not major capital dollars.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Edison, N.J.-based Sea-Land is a unit of CSX Corp., a
transportation and resource company based in Richmond, Va.
   "This is an effort with modest investment to expand our
distribution network into that part of the world," said Mr.
Mandl. He added that Sea-Land seeks to participate in fees
generated by the venture from freight shipments. "It won't
translate into huge dollars for us next month, but it will
generate good potential for us down the road and it's another
step in the U.S. and Russia being able to work together," he
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Equities Post Healthy Advance, Boosted
   By the Yen; London Prices Fall on Trade Data
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA EUROP FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stock prices posted a healthy advance Wednesday,
encouraged by the yen's strength against the dollar, with the
key Nikkei index finishing above 32000 for the first time in
three days.
   London share prices closed mostly lower in moderate
trading, as disappointing British trade data for April erased
gains made early in the session and sharply pushed the
100-share index to near its intraday low.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Tokyo Wednesday, the Nikkei index of 225 issues was up
238.21 points, to finish at 32176.51. Helped by buying linked
to index-futures arbitrage, the index moved as high as 32316
in midafternoon, before falling back 140 points on
profit-taking toward the end of the day, traders said.
   At midmorning Thursday in Tokyo, the Nikkei index was down
56.47 points to 32120.04.
   Wednesday's first section volume was estimated at 650
million shares, improving from 549 million shares a day
earlier. The Tokyo Stock Price Index, or Topix, of all first
section issues, which gained 19.77 points Tuesday, was up
4.36 at 2394.95.
   Traders said growing expectations for stability in the
currency and bond markets for the time being encouraged
buying. Also good news to the market were recent upward moves
on overseas stock markets, including Wall Street, said Shigeo
Sekimoto, general manager of stock trading at Yamaichi
Securities. "The sentiment is very positive," he said.
   The Nikkei index hovered at lower levels last week, after
posting fast-paced advances. But participants appeared to
have agreed that the market has spent enough time on "speed
adjustment," Mr. Sekimoto said. Institutions, many of which
had been following a strategy of selling whenever stock
prices went up, are gradually beginning to participate in
active buying, he said.
   But some traders said further sharp advances on the Nikkei
will take time, as the market doesn't have a strong trading
focus.
   Many large-capital issues that advanced in the morning on
the yen's strength fell back by the end of the day,
indicating that the room these stocks have to move up is
hardly more than what can be considered a technical
correction, a trader at Wako Securities said.
   Shares of shipbuilding companies were bought ahead of
Friday earnings reports for the fiscal year ended March 31,
which investors expect to be strong, traders said.
   Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries rose 50 yen to 1,140
yen ($7.53), and Hitachi Zosen gained 19 to 868.
   Electrical concerns gained moderately, helped by active
buying by the so-called Big Four brokerage houses, traders
said.
   Toshiba was up 20 at 1,090. Sanyo Electric gained 27 to
956, and Kokusai Electric rose 40 to 5,130.
   Among other winners were Konica, up 80 at 1,490, and
Misawa Homes, which rose 100 to 2,570.
   Steel shares were mixed. NKK was up 5 at 646, while Nippon
Steel fell 6 to 618.
   Chubu Electric Power rose 60 to 3,760. But Kansai Electric
Power edged down 20 to 3,900.
   In London, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share
index finished down 23.9 points at 2287.4, a touch above its
low for the day of 2287.3, which was reached just before
midafternoon. The intraday high of 2335.1 was posted prior to
midday and to the release of the trade figures. The FT
30-share index was down 19.5 points at 1810.0. Volume was a
healthy 542.1 million shares, compared with the 629.7 million
issues that changed hands a day earlier.
   London's market started firmer on strength in stock-index
futures contracts, dealers said, but the release of the trade
data triggered a gradual decline that lasted throughout the
day; Britain's trade balance for April showed a deficit of
#1.78 billion ($3.01 billion), wider than market expectations
for a #1.5 billion gap. Traders also reported some
profit-taking that helped ease prices, and said a weak start
on Wall Street didn't help matters.
   Some dealers said they still detected both bears seeking
to cover short positions and investors interested in fresh
buying. They predicted that the market might pick up before
the weekend.
   A slew of corporate results hit the market, causing varied
responses. Ranks Hovis McDougall, a food company, plunged 38
pence to 360 pence ($6.09) after reporting a slim 0.2% rise
in pretax profit for its first six months, while issuing a
warning for fiscal-year earnings. Bass, a beverage company,
posted the biggest gain on the day, rising 14 pence to #10.63
($17.99), on a 9.8% increase in interim pretax profit. B.A.T
Industries, a tobacco and financial services conglomerate,
fell 8 to 684, after a 27% dive in first-quarter pretax
profit from losses at its British insurance unit. Courtaulds,
an industrial materials concern, lost 10 to 328 on
profit-taking, following the announcement that pretax profit
rose a slim 5% for the year, at the top end of analysts'
expectations.
   A number of blue-chip stocks showed sharp downward
movement in sympathy with the market, but most of them
registered thin trading volume. Barclays Bank shed 5 to 554,
amid a general softness in the banking sector. The
pharmaceutical company Wellcome dived 28 to 661.
   Gainers on the day included the lubricants company Burmah,
which rose 9 to 626; the automotive and defense concern Lucas
Industries added 11 to 633; and Great Universal Stores gained
8 to 969.
   The retailer Kingfisher closed up 3 at 311, after
Britain's Department of Trade and Industry blocked its
long-running hostile bid for rival retailer Dixons, which
dropped 7 to 124.
   Elsewhere, share prices closed higher in Paris, Frankfurt,
Zurich, Brussels, Amsterdam and Stockholm, and lower in
Milan. Frankfurt prices jumped 1%, reversing a steady
two-week downturn, but traders said that volume remained
light, that technical factors played a large role in the
gains, and that they weren't optimistic the market's
consolidation has ended. South African gold stocks closed
lower.
   Stock prices closed higher in Hong Kong, Taipei and Seoul;
lower in Singapore and Manila; and mixed in Sydney and
Wellington. In Hong Kong, stocks surged 1.9% in the heaviest
trading in 3 1/2 months, as overseas buyers swooped into the
market in a delayed response to the report the U.S. would
renew China's preferential trade status; the Hang Seng Index
soared 57.44 points to 3028.31, following a day-earlier surge
of 40.04 points. Taipei share prices staged a technical
rebound, after plunging nearly 1,900 points during the past
five sessions; the weighted index, which fell 272.57 on
Tuesday, recovered 294.08, or 4.38%, to finish at 7014.40. In
Manila, panic selling drove prices lower in active trading,
as investors lost confidence after a renewal of terrorist
activity in the capital.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                  % This
                            May 22      May 21      Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. ....................   330.3       329.7     + 1.6
 Britain .................   686.3       676.9     - 4.8
 Canada ..................   390.5       387.6     - 9.7
 Japan ...................  1347.1      1332.4     -18.6
 France ..................   590.4       584.9     + 4.1
 Germany .................   290.3       292.8     + 1.7
 Hong Kong ...............  2217.8      2186.8     + 5.8
 Switzerland .............   216.2       214.1     - 2.1
 Australia ...............   297.1       295.1     -10.3
 World index .............   519.0       514.4     - 8.5
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Approves Clean-Air Measure,
   But Adds Item That May Prompt Veto
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House approved a sweeping clean-air bill
after adding a $250 million unemployment-assistance program
that the White House said would result in a veto of the
measure.
   The clean-air bill, approved 401-21 last night, now goes
to what may be a long and contentious conference with the
Senate, which approved its clean-air bill last month. Among
other differences, the Senate measure doesn't contain a
worker-aid package.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nevertheless, Congress seems all but certain to approve
the first clean-air bill since 1977. The legislation would
impose the nation's first controls on acid rain, which is
hurting lakes and forests in the Northeast; would reduce the
toxic emissions from chemical companies and other factories
that are blamed for cancer and birth defects; and would take
a new approach to cleaning up smog by tailoring deadlines to
cities' pollution problems.
   The House bill is slightly less costly than the Senate
measure, which would impose $21.5 billion a year in costs on
industry when it is fully in effect.
   Just before final passage, the House voted 405-15 to
launch a pilot program in California in which the auto
industry would be required to produce cars capable of running
on nongasoline fuels such as natural gas and methanol. The
program would start in 1994 and result in the production of a
total 750,000 cars through 1997.
   The compromise amendment, which also contains an
alternative-fuels program for fleet vehicles, reflected a
hard-fought compromise between Rep. Henry Waxman (D.,
Calif.), who originally sponsored an amendment requiring the
production and sale of one million alternative-fuel cars
annually, and Rep. John Dingell (D., Mich.), the Energy and
Commerce Committee chairman, who opposed any production
requirement. However, neither man is committed to the
compromise through the conference.
   The politics of the alternative-fuels compromise were
linked with the worker-assistance package. At one point
yesterday, industry opponents of the alternative-fuels
program were fearful that an angry White House Chief of Staff
John Sununu would throw support to the environmentalists in
retaliation for industry's support of the jobs program.
   The five year unemployment-assistance program, offered by
Rep. Robert Wise (D., W.Va.) and approved 274-146, would
provide up to six months of additional unemployment insurance
benefits and up to two years of retraining assistance to any
workers who lose their jobs or have their employment
substantially reduced as a result of the bill. To be eligible
for the assistance, the workers would have to demonstrate
that the law was an "important contributing factor" to the
job displacement.
   In the Senate, a similar measure backed by Sen. Robert
Byrd (D., W.Va.), was narrowly defeated. Sen. Byrd's proposal
was more costly and would have given coal miners more
generous benefits than other workers received.
   The Bush administration issued the veto threat in a letter
Tuesday to House Speaker Thomas Foley (D., Wash.) from Mr.
Sununu and Environmental Protection Administrator William
Reilly. It said the amendment would create "a potentially
open-ended liability for the federal government" because
there would be no way to determine whether workers lost their
jobs because of the clean-air act or for another reason.
   In floor action yesterday, the House also voted 239-180 to
toughen warranty provisions for anti-pollution equipment.
Under the amendment, auto makers would be required to provide
eight-year, 80,000-mile warranties for catalytic converters
and electronic-diagnostic gear. For other equipment, the
warranties would be for two years or 24,000 miles. The change
made the House bill the same as the Senate's on this issue.
   The lawmakers also unanimously agreed to speed up the
required phase-out of chlorofluorocarbons and other chemicals
that are depleting the Earth's protective ozone layer. This
change also makes the bill conform closely to the Senate's
provisions.
   In addition, the House approved on voice vote a package of
amendments that were previously accepted by the Energy and
Commerce Committee and House leaders. The provisions would
require the use of cleaner gasoline in all cars in the
nation's nine smoggiest areas, beginning in 1992 and would
require the EPA to identify and regulate the source of haze
in western national parks within two years.
   Major provisions of the legislation are described below.
                                                                                                       

   AUTOMOBILES: The House and Senate bills contain different
triggers for determining whether to impose a second round of
curbs on tailpipe emissions.
   Both measures call for a mandatory initial round of cuts
totaling 60% for nitrogen oxide and 40% for hydrocarbons;
these reductions would be phased in starting with 1994 models
in the House and with 1993 models in the Senate. The EPA
estimates that this requirement would add $100 to the price
of a car.
   Under the House measure, a second round of cuts -- halving
exhaust levels for the pollutants -- would be required for
2003 model cars only if an EPA study decided they were needed
and cost-effective. Under the Senate bill, this second round
would be contingent on the nation's air quality.
Specifically, it would automatically take effect if 12 or
more seriously polluted cities outside California don't meet
EPA health standards by the end of 2001. The EPA estimates
the second round would add $500 to the price of a car.
   The House language is preferred by the industry and the
Bush administration.
                                                                                                       

   UTILITIES: The House and Senate take slightly different
approaches to dividing up "pollution credits" among
utilities.
   Provisions in both measures aimed at curbing acid rain
would require the nation's utilities to reduce sulfur-dioxide
pollution by 10 million tons a year from 1980 levels during
the next decade and to maintain those reductions. Both bills
would preserve the innovative trading system, proposed by
President Bush, under which utilities that make extra-deep
cuts in pollution would get credits they could keep or sell
to other utilities that want to expand.
   Each bill, however, makes its own adjustment with the
system to dole out extra credits to help the dirtiest
utilities pay their cleanup costs and to help other utilities
in fast-growing areas, among other groups. The House
generates these extra credits in part by requiring slightly
deeper cuts from the large dirty utilities affected by the
first phase of the legislation. The Senate speeds up the
deadline for each of the legislation's two phases by one
year.
   The United Mine Workers contends that the House bill would
result in the loss of 12,000 to 15,000 high-sulfur
coal-mining jobs, and that the Senate bill would result in
the loss of more than 15,000 jobs.
   The House also would require the EPA to identify and
regulate the source of haze in western national parks within
two years. The Senate calls only for a study.
                                                                                                       

   FUEL: The oil industry would have more flexibility under
the House bill in meeting requirements for cleaner-burning
reformulated gasoline to be sold in the nation's nine
smoggiest areas.
   To the dismay of the oil industry, which has lobbied
vigorously against the provisions, both bills would force all
gasoline sold in these areas, starting in 1992, to be at
least as clean as that produced according to a government
formula. The Senate would actually require that the fuel meet
a specific oxygen content in each year; the House gives the
companies more leeway.
   In addition, both bills would would phase in an
alternative -- fuels program for fleets requiring the use of
non-gasoline fuels such as compressed natural gas.
                                                                                                       

   OTHER INDUSTRIES: The Senate threatens to force factories
to close down if they can't adequately reduce cancer risk
from their emissions, although it offers coke ovens a 30-year
exemption. The House contains no closing threat.
   Both measures would junk a regulatory system that has set
standards on air emissions for only seven toxic chemicals in
20 years. Instead, each bill would require a majority of
polluting plants -- ranging from petrochemical plants to dry
cleaners -- to install this state-of-the-art technology over
10 years; the goal would be to eliminate at least 2,200
annual cancer deaths from toxic industrial emissions, while
also reducing birth defects and respiratory diseases.
   Under the House bill, which is generally preferred by
environmentalists and industry, the EPA would then conduct a
risk-assessment study and make recommendations to Congress.
If Congress doesn't act, current-law provisions go into
effect requiring nearby residents to be protected within an
ample margin of safety. The Senate measure adopts a
health-based standard that would force a plant to close if it
couldn't reduce the cancer risk from its fumes to no more
than 1-in-10,000 for nearby residents. Congress could change
the standard after a risk-assessment study.
   ---
   David Rogers contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Fund Assets
   Register First Rise
   In Eight Weeks
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Assets of money-market mutual funds rose for the first
time in eight weeks, although yields remained in the narrow
range of the past four months.
   Investors added $2 billion to taxable money funds,
bringing total assets to $376.7 billion, according to
IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report. The average seven-day
compound yield of the 427 funds eased to 7.98% from 8% in the
week ended Tuesday. Compound yields assume reinvestment of
dividends.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "As yields on alternative investments dropped last week,
money funds became more attractive," said Brenda Malizia
Negus, editor of the Holliston, Mass.-based newsletter.
   The average yield on a three-month certificate of deposit
at major banks, for instance, has fallen to 7.56% from 7.63%
two weeks ago, according to Banxquote Money Markets, a New
York information service. Treasury-bill yields turned up a
bit at Monday's auction, to 8% for three-month bills and
8.22% for six-month bills, but they're still lower than a
month ago.
   Money-fund yields have been at or just below 8% since late
January.
   The average maturity of the funds' investments remained at
44 days for the sixth consecutive week, indicating that a
substantial change in yields isn't likely anytime soon. Money
funds invest in such things as commercial paper (short-term
corporate IOUs), Treasury bills and bank CDs.
   The average seven-day simple yield of the funds slipped to
7.68% from 7.70%. The average 30-day simple yield remained at
7.68%, and the average 30-day compound yield remained at
7.98%.
   Assets of tax-free funds also increased, by $403.5
million, Donoghue's reported. This brings the total for the
222 tax-exempt funds tracked by the newsletter to $75.7
billion.
   The average seven-day compound yield of the tax-free funds
fell in the latest week, to 5.59% from 5.67%. That's
equivalent to 7.76% for an investor in the 28% tax bracket
and 8.34% for someone paying 33% in taxes. Average maturity
shortened by a day, to 40 days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Next They'll Tell Us Gene Kelly
   Wasn't Really Singing in the Rain
   ----
   By Mark Robichaux
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   New Jersey doesn't take kindly to lip service.
   Two state assemblymen recently introduced a bill requiring
performers to announce before concerts whether they'll sing
live or lip-sync to recorded music.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Use of recordings struck a responsive chord in the two
legislators after constituents complained of paying $20 to
$30 for tickets to concerts at which big-name singers weren't
singing.
   "Is it live or is it Memorex? People have a right to
know," says Assemblyman Neil Cohen, bill co-sponsor and vice
chairman of the Consumer Affairs Committee.
   Concert promoters may hit a sour note if the bill becomes
law; penalties could be as high as $50,000 if promoters fail
to inform ticket buyers whether a performer plans to use
recordings.
   Carl Freed, executive director of the North American
Concert Promoters Association, agrees with the spirit of the
bill, but says: "I think the bill is a little farfetched.
There's got to be a compromise." Printed warnings might hurt
ticket sales, and the audience would "lose the ability to
suspend disbelief."
   Some performers have used taped music as a background prop
for years. Increasingly, though, such performers as Paula
Abdul and Janet Jackson have come to rely on taped music as
they pursue perfection in their elaborate stage shows and
complex dance routines. Milli Vanilli and New Kids on the
Block use taped vocals for as many as half their concerts,
reports Billboard, a trade publication. Agents for the groups
didn't return phone calls.
   Moreover, "kids today are reared on MTV, and they've come
to expect studio-quality performances," says New Jersey
Assemblyman Joe Mecca, a co-sponsor of the bill.
   But such precision acts can backfire. On tour last summer,
Billboard reports, the group Milli Vanilli (which received a
1990 Grammy for best new artist) walked off the stage after a
malfunction stopped its vocals. Minutes later, the band
played on, but no one was on stage.
   Taped vocals can save a lot of breath when singers stage
spunky dance routines, and can be insurance against illness.
   But fans, and even some ticket brokers, decry the
practice. "It's sort of like going to an opera and having
them play the album," says Chris White, office manager of
American Ticket Service. "Hey, if I wanted to hear
prerecorded music, I'd go to listen to a deejay."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Bowne &amp; Co.:
   Purchase of Some Assets
   From Sorg Is Completed
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BNE SRG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bowne &amp; Co. said it completed the purchase of some Sorg
Inc. assets for $5.7 million, including the Sorg name and
trademark and some printing equipment. Both financial
printers are based in New York.
   Sorg has been operating with protection from creditors
under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code since August.
The asset sale received bankruptcy court approval Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bowne said it will employ a dozen members of Sorg's New
York management and sales staff, and is considering
applications from four more Sorg employees. It also said it
transferred all of Sorg's work in progress to its own
facility. The agreement excludes Sorg's real estate, Chicago
office and various other assets, and one printing press Sorg
had agreed to sell but turned out not to own, Bowne said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   JAL to Order
   20 Jumbo Jets
   From Boeing
   ----
   By Kathryn Graven
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPNY BA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan Air Lines said it plans to place an order
for 20 new Boeing 747-400 jumbo jets, with an option to buy
an additional 34 at a later date.
   The total order, which would have a value of $8.53
billion, would bring JAL's 747-400 fleet up to 74 aircraft.
Each 747-400 costs an estimated 24 billion yen ($158
million).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the end of March, JAL placed an order for 10 MD-11
jetliners from McDonnell Douglas Corp. for about $2 billion,
with an option to by 10 more at a later date.
   "If we don't order them in a timely enough matter, we
might have trouble getting aircraft later on," said a Jal
official.
   JAL has taken delivery of five 747-400's and has another
15 of this latest version on order. In addition, JAL has
bought 63 conventional 747 aircraft since 1970.
   With Japan's new wealth, air travel is booming. While the
nation's airports are clogged and operating at capacity,
completion of a new international airport in Osaka and
expansion of Tokyo's two airports, Narita and Haneda,
represents significant opportunity for expansion, JAL said.
People in the airline industry expect the growth rate for
Japanese domestic and international air travel to reach 6% a
year for the next 10 years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   GOLD PRICES PLUNGED for the second time in two months,
sparking a volatile bond rally that also boosted stocks. The
decline by gold, which closed down $11.80 an ounce on the
Comex, at $364.60, was attributed again to heavy selling by
Saudi Arabia. The Dow Jones industrials closed up 4.03, at a
record 2856.26. The dollar edged higher.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Oil prices skidded following a report that U.S.
inventories had risen to the highest level since 1982.
   ---
   Treasury Secretary Brady acknowledged that the cost of the
S&amp;L bailout could nearly double, and that the government
borrowing needed to finance it could put upward pressure on
interest rates. Taxpayers will bear most of the added cost,
he said.
   ---
   The budget summit may find that raising taxes is easy
compared with finding cuts in government spending.
                                                                                                       

   Opposition to higher taxes has softened among Americans,
but they remain divided on the issue, a Wall Street
Journal/NBC News poll says.
   ---
   Only a broad trade accord will be acceptable to the U.S.
in the current round of GATT talks, Bush said. The tougher
stance includes an insistence on major reforms in farm trade.
   ---
   The U.S. auto market remained depressed in mid-May as
sales of domestically built cars and trucks tumbled 17.7%.
But Toyota, Nissan and Mazda posted big sales gains.
                                                                                                       

   Honda has quietly adopted a dealer incentive program to
spur sales of its Civic cars. The move is the latest sign of
the U.S. car market's weakness.
   ---
   An airline fare war spread rapidly as major carriers said
they would match TWA's surprise cut. Analysts said the battle
may most hurt United Air, which began the war Monday.
   ---
   Japan Air Lines plans to order 20 Boeing 747-400 jumbo
jets, with an option to buy 34 more. The total order would
have a value of $8.53 billion.
   ---
   Durable goods orders slid 4.1% in April, another sign that
manufacturing remains flat. The drop, which follows healthy
gains in the previous two months, was led by declines in
transportation equipment orders.
   ---
   Global futures trading moved closer to reality. The
Chicago Merc and CBOT agreed to combine their planned
automated trading systems.
   ---
   Salomon and Shearson will soon have employees take more of
their salary in stock or other incentives. They are the
latest big securities firms to require such payout plans.
   ---
   TWA's machinists union said it offered owner Carl Icahn a
framework under which employees would take control of the
ailing carrier.
   ---
   PepsiCo said it received final approval to sell
soft-drinks in the potentially huge Indian market. Pepsi's
joint venture there plans to spend over $1 billion in the
next decade.
   ---
   Ivan Boesky admitted he lied to investigators, the stock
exchange, on his tax returns and in a book he wrote prior to
his 1986 guilty plea.
   ---
   Union Carbide named H. William Lichtenberger president and
chief operating officer. He already is head of the chemicals
and plastics unit.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 172,330,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2856.26, up 4.03; transportation 1166.61, off 3.02; utilities
213.03, off 0.06.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3367.23, up
12.04.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.17, off 1.35;
spot index 135.67, unchanged.
   Dollar: 151.45 yen, up 0.25; 1.6765 marks, up 0.0029.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South African Prices Climb
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   JOHANNESBURG -- South Africa's inflation rate as measured
by the consumer price index rose 14.6% in April from a year
earlier, the government's Central Statistical Services said.
   April's index rose to 198.3 points from 173.1 a year
earlier and was up 1% from March's 196.4 points.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   March's year-on-year increase was 14.9%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bank of New England
   Appoints Kent Price
   Top Financial Officer
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Bank of New England Corp. named Kent Price, a
former Citicorp executive, as chief financial officer,
continuing the management shake-up at the troubled bank.
   Mr. Price, 46 years old, will be responsible for, among
other things, the continued downsizing of the bank holding
company, including the sale of its Maine and Rhode Island
banking operations. He will succeed David Payne, who has been
chief financial officer and is taking early retirement in
July.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At least a half-dozen top executives have left the bank in
recent months as its financial difficulties have mounted.
   Mr. Price, who is finishing up chores as chief operating
officer and chief financial officer for Barr Rosenberg
Investment Management in Orinda, Calif., has already started
work at the bank's headquarters in Boston.
   Prior to a one-year stint at Barr Rosenberg, Mr. Price
spent much of the past two decades overseas. He worked for
Citicorp for 12 years, heading numerous foreign operations.
Four years ago he left Citicorp to take hold of the reins of
Chloride, an industrial and electronics concern experiencing
financial difficulty. "It was a turnaround situation and I
was responsible for reducing the size of that company from
about $1.2 billion to $600 million to $700 million," Mr.
Price said in an interview.
   Analysts viewed Mr. Price's appointment as a positive
move, but noted that the bank's future in large part depends
on the length and depth of the current economic slump in New
England. Bank of New England, among the most aggressive banks
in the region in the 1980s, posted a loss of $1.11 billion
last year, largely because of problem real estate loans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TWA Machinists Offer to Take Over
   Airline; Icahn Would Keep Other Assets
   ----
   By Judith Valente
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   TWA LABOR X AWAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Trans World Airlines Inc.'s machinists union offered owner
Carl C. Icahn a framework under which employees would take
control of the ailing carrier.
   The union said it proposed acquiring 100% of TWA through
an employee stock ownership plan that would also include the
carrier's pilots, flight attendants and nonunion employees.
The labor group hasn't yet made a formal offer, saying it
hasn't completed an evaluation of TWA's assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, the union is expected to argue that the carrier
currently has a negative value that removes the necessity for
employees to pay anything for it. Under the machinists' plan,
employees would take over only the airline. Mr. Icahn would
keep TWA's investments in such other companies as USX Corp.
Those investments are valued at between $1 billion and $1.6
billion. The union also wants Mr. Icahn to remain responsible
for the company's debt.
   Mr. Icahn has been seeking to unload the unprofitable
carrier for months. Such a plan would allow him to "exit
gracefully," said machinist union leader Timothy Connolly.
   If the machinists' proposal progresses, TWA would become
the second major carrier where employees are seeking to take
control. Last month, UAL Corp.'s board approved a $4.38
billion buy-out proposal from United Airlines unions. The UAL
unions have until Aug. 9 to finance their offer.
   The TWA machinists took their inspiration for the plan
from a threat Mr. Icahn made a few weeks ago to transfer
TWA's domestic route system to America West Airlines Inc. But
a transfer of assets won't prove easy.
   TWA is $2.8 billion in debt, the result of a 1988
transaction in which Mr. Icahn took the carrier private. The
employee group doesn't want to assume responsibility for the
debt. But it is unlikely Mr. Icahn would agree to remain
responsible for it.
   Mr. Icahn said he is open to an employee takeover, but
called the machinists' proposal "a pretty tough deal." He
said before talks can proceed, he wants assurances that the
employees would make concessions to keep the airline going.
He also said he is concerned about labor's ability to
continue making lease payments on aircraft an
Icahn-controlled company owns.
   TWA, which had losses of $298 million last year, has been
staggering under the weight of about $490 million in annual
debt service. It has already posted losses of $143 million in
the first three months of this year, when higher costs for
fuel, service and maintenance were factors.
   Employee owners would inherit the fundamental problem that
has plagued TWA for years. It is largely an international
carrier with a small domestic route system to feed its
overseas flights. It faces increased competition from foreign
carriers and U.S. carriers with vast domestic routes.
   The machinists union contends that the employees, as
owners, would be willing to provide wage concessions and
productivity gains needed to fund growth at the airline.
TWA's unions have refused Mr. Icahn any further concessions.
In turn, Mr. Icahn has postponed placing additional orders
for new aircraft and resisted making other capital
investments in TWA.
   The machinists' proposal needs the support of other TWA
unions to succeed. Leaders of the pilots and flight
attendants unions said they would support a change in
ownership, but aren't certain the machinists' proposal can
succeed.
   Whether or not the proposal succeeds, TWA's debt needs to
be restructured in order for the airline to survive, said
pilots union leader William Compton. Mr. Compton said the
pilots are also looking into an arrangement whereby TWA
creditors would exchange debt they hold for common stock in
the airline.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   India Gives
   Final Approval
   To Pepsi's Plans
   ---
   Firm's Joint Venture There
   To Spend Over $1 Billion
   During the Next Decade
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   PEP MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PepsiCo Inc. said it has received final approval from the
government of India to sell soft drinks and said its joint
venture there plans to spend more than $1 billion to build
Pepsi's food and beverage businesses over the next decade.
   Although the full joint venture was approved by the Indian
government in 1988, Pepsi said opposition from India's
soft-drink industry created considerable uncertainty in the
past two months that Pepsi would receive final clearance to
sell soft drinks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As an almost undeveloped market, India represents vast
potential for Pepsi. In a country of some 800 million people,
Indians annually drink only about 80 million cases of soda --
the same amount sold in Seattle. On a per-capita basis,
Indians drink about three bottles of soft drinks a year,
compared with more than 700 in the U.S.
   "This market could literally quadruple on a per-capita
basis over 10 years," said Chistopher A. Sinclair, president
of PepsiCola International. Pepsi is pinning its hopes on
India's growing middle class, currently estimated to comprise
some 150 million people. By year-end, Pepsi plans to
distribute its products in Calcutta, Bombay, Punjab and
Delhi, among other places.
   "We're not expecting to make money right away," said Mr.
Sinclair. "We'll be investing the cash flow in the business
for a long time." However, Pepsi, based in Purchase, N.Y.,
does expect to be making a profit in India within five or six
years, he said.
   Coupled with Pepsi's recent 10-year agreement to sell soft
drinks in the Soviet Union, the Indian business gives Pepsi
another boost in its campaign to compete globally with rival
Coca-Cola Co.
   Coke, which outsells Pepsi more than 2-to-1
internationally, withdrew from India in 1977 over a dispute
with the government that would have required disclosure of
Coke's secret formula. In March, the government denied Coke's
request to re-enter India. Unable to make money after four
years in the mid-1950s, Pepsi itself abandoned the India
market.
   One cloud looms over Pepsi's otherwise bright Indian
summer. Last year, the U.S. called India an unfair trading
partner under the so-called Super 301 provision of the 1988
U.S. trade law, alleging that India's strict regulations
hindered foreign investment. The Super 301 provision requires
retaliation if countries don't resolve trade practices the
U.S. deems unfair.
   Pepsi wouldn't speculate about what might happen to its
Indian venture as a result of any retaliatory flare-up, but
it isn't taking chances, either. The company recently sent a
letter to U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills, stating that
it thinks the Indian approval of the Pepsi venture signals a
laudable openness to foreign investment. "We hope that our
government will not have to take any actions {against India}
under the Super 301 process," the letter added.
   Through negotiations that began six years ago, Pepsi was
able to crack the Indian market in 1988, by winning over the
government with a package of political sweeteners, including
food-processing plants.
   Pepsi's India joint venture -- consisting of Pepsi, a
private Indian conglomerate, and a government agricultural
agency -- also makes snack-food products. The venture
partners, along with Indian franchisees, will make the $1
billion investment. Over the next decade, Pepsi estimates
that the retail sales of its snacks and soft drinks in India
will total $2.5 billion.
   Now Pepsi has new hurdles. For one thing, it will have to
compete with Parle Beverages Ltd., India's biggest soft-drink
company. Led by flagship Thumbs Up cola, Parle holds an
estimated 60% of the $500 million soft-drink market. And,
given the structure of Indian retailing, there are few big
stores for Pepsi to try to win over to make an immediate
splash. Sales battles will likely be protracted
mini-skirmishes over thousands of mom-and-pop outlets, where
shoppers buy one bottle at a time.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Jumps Past Big Board Gains;
   Technologies Remain the Driving Force
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Over-the-counter stocks sprinted past the Dow Jones
Industrial Average as technology shares again led the OTC
market.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 2.98 to 456.87, a 0.66%
gain compared with the 0.14% rise in the Dow industrials.
However, while the Dow average set another record, the Nasdaq
index remains almost 30 points below its high of 485.73 set
last Oct. 9.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nasdaq 100 index, which tracks larger industrial
issues including technology stocks, jumped 6.43 to 472.12, a
1.38% advance. Advancing shares overtook decliners late in
the day, 1,086 to 947. Stocks hitting new highs again
outpaced new lows, 188 to 71. Volume remained hefty at 188.7
million, down from 190.1 million Tuesday.
   "From a trader's standpoint, the OTC market looks really
healthy," said Ralph Costanza, managing director of OTC
trading at Smith Barney, Harris Upham. Mr. Costanza explained
that technology shares are providing the leadership needed to
pull smaller stocks higher. Big computer stocks, he
explained, attract both large institutions and smaller
investors.
   Mr. Costanza also said he was heartened by the orderly
demand for OTC shares. "Once they start throwing caution to
the wind and start buying anything, then we have to worry,"
he said. "But I'm not seeing that kind of rampant
speculation."
   Investors trading through A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons in St. Louis
bought a broad spectrum of stocks, according to Robert
McCready, an OTC trader there. "We saw them pecking away at
some of the banks that have been under pressure," Mr.
McCready said.
   Intel traded to a new 52-week high after Merrill Lynch
picked the issue as its "Focus Stock of the Week," according
to Dow Jones Professional Investor Report. Shares of the
Santa Clara, Calif., semiconductor maker rose 2 to 48; Intel
was the day's second most active issue.
   Microsoft jumped 4 3/8 to 75 7/8 on 1.9 million shares
after Wednesday's much-heralded unveiling of the Redmond,
Wash., software maker's Windows 3.0 package.
   Oracle Systems was the most active issue, gaining 1 to 19
3/4 on 3.1 million shares. Tuesday, the Belmont, Calif.,
database management software maker created a separate
operating subsidiary and reorganized its management.
   Goal Systems jumped 2 1/8 to 17 1/8 after the Columbus,
Ohio, maker of IBM-compatible software announced a loss for
the first quarter ended April 30 of 12 cents a share,
compared with restated net income a year earlier of six
cents. However, that loss included a charge of 20 cents
related to one-time merger and acquisition expenses.
   Culp added 1/4 to 8 1/4 after the High Point, N.C.,
textile company said it expects to report a profit for the
fourth quarter ended April 29 and a net gain for the year,
compared with a loss of 20 cents a share in fiscal 1989.
   Long Lake Energy added 1/4 to 2 3/4. The New York
developer of electric power plants said it finalized a line
of credit agreement with its principal shareholders and that
its outside auditors removed an April 3 statement expressing
concern about Long Lake's ability to continue as an ongoing
business.
   Biotechnology stocks continued to bubble as analysts
highlighted them. Chiron rose 2 1/2 to 32 1/2 after
Oppenheimer analyst Jeffrey Casdin added the stock to the
brokerage firm's list of issues recommended for purchase,
according to DJPIR. According to another person at
Oppenheimer, Mr. Casdin cited prospects for the Emeryville,
Calif., company's hepatitis C test.
   Prudential-Bache biotechnology analyst Stuart Weisbrod
recommended investors sell shares of Centocor and Genzyme and
buy Immunex, Cetus and Amgen, DJPIR reported. Genzyme eased
3/8 to 19 3/8; Centocor, down earlier in the day, gained 1/2
to 41 1/2. Amgen rose 2 3/4 to 74.
   Shares of Immunex, which Tuesday received a favorable
review of its drug to stimulate white-blood-cell production,
climbed 2 1/4 to 21 3/4.
   Cetus advanced 5/8 to 17 1/8. In addition to Mr.
Weisbrod's comments, Cetus traded higher in the wake of
Wednesday's announcement that the Emeryville, Calif., company
won a round in a patent dispute with Erbamont Inc. over a
widely prescribed anti-tumor drug that it imports. More than
1.4 million shares changed hands, nearly six times average
volume.
   The day's most prominent loser was Intermec, which plunged
4 1/2 to 18 1/4 on 2.2 million shares. Late Tuesday, the
Lynnwood, Wash., maker of electronic bar-code printers,
scanners and related products, reported net income for the
fourth quarter ended March 31 of 43 cents a share, flat with
a year earlier.
   American Republic Bancorp slid 1/2 to 7 1/4 after its
president and chief executive officer, John B. O'Donnell,
resigned. The Torrance, Calif., bank said only that Mr.
O'Donnell resigned because "he may have inadvertently engaged
in activities which appear inconsistent with company policy,"
but didn't provide further details.
   Agnico-Eagle Mines lost 1 to 7 1/8, giving back Tuesday's
5/8 gain. The Canadian gold mining company said it plans to
proceed with a planned offering of 40 million Canadian
dollars (US$34 million) of shares and warrants that was
challenged by a shareholder, Jacque Forget. Tuesday, Mr.
Forget said he plans to establish a group of investors to
pursue a takeover bid for the company. Yesterday,
Agnico-Eagle also called Mr. Forget's comments about alleged
management errors "completely unfounded."
   Possis extended its losses. Tuesday, the Minneapolis
contract engineering and computer-aided design concern
reported net income for the third quarter ended April 30 of
one cent a share, compared with a year-earlier loss of 10
cents. The stock fell 1/8 to 4 1/8 after Tuesday's 1/8-point
drop.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   CENTOCOR Inc. and Genzyme Corp. shares were downgraded to
"hold" from "buy" by Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
biotechnology analyst Stuart Weisbrod. Yesterday's OTC Focus
column said Mr. Weisbrod advised investors to sell those two
stocks and buy others he is recommending, but
Prudential-Bache said such action was suggested only for
"aggressive accounts." Mr. Weisbrod wasn't available for
comment, but Prudential-Bache made a copy of his research
report available.
   (WSJ May 25, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dun &amp; Bradstreet Acts
   To Sell the Majority
   Of Its Donnelley Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DNB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp. said it put up for sale
most of its Donnelley Marketing division, continuing its
policy of shedding nonstrategic businesses.
   Donnelley Marketing is a leading direct-mail distributor
of cents-off coupons and consumer merchandise, and also
provides mailing lists and mailing services. D&amp;B said the
only other segment of Donnelley Marketing -- Donnelley
Marketing Information Services, which markets demographic
information -- isn't for sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Without the information-services segment, D&amp;B said,
Donnelley Marketing had 1989 revenue of about $225 million,
or 5.2% of D&amp;B's total revenue. The financial-information
services giant said Donnelley Marketing is profitable, but
wouldn't give any further details.
   D&amp;B also refused to disclose the price it expects to get
for most of Donnelley Marketing, but one analyst said it will
likely fetch in excess of $200 million. Industry insiders
speculated that the price could go as high as $400 million or
$500 million.
   The sale decision fits into D&amp;B's recent policy of selling
businesses that don't fit into its overall strategy. In
recent months, D&amp;B has announced plans to sell five such
units: Datastream International, Interactive Data, Neodata
Services, Petroleum Information and Zytron. D&amp;B has retained
investment bank Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. to facilitate the sales.
   D&amp;B is focusing on information services for three areas:
risk management, marketing, and yellow-pages directories; and
on software for business applications.
   Joseph Laird, an analyst who follows D&amp;B for Veronis,
Suhler &amp; Associates Inc., said the sale made sense. "The part
that they're shedding is emphatically not an information
business, while the part that they're keeping is," he said.
"It's a perfectly understandable decision."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Pro-Gun Lobby
   Handed Defeat
   In the Senate
   ---
   Provision to Ban Nine Types
   Of `Assault' Weapons
   Survives in Close Votes
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In a surprising defeat of the powerful gun
lobby, a provision banning nine types of semi-automatic
weapons survived two close votes in the Senate and remained
part of an omnibus anti-crime bill.
   The gun-control victory startled even its proponents and
cast doubt on the future of the overall anti-crime package.
Republicans immediately threatened to filibuster the
Democratic-sponsored omnibus legislation. Bush administration
lobbyists predicted a veto if the package made it to the
White House with the prohibition on military-style "assault"
weapons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There's definitely a possibility of a filibuster," said
an aide to Sen. Orrin Hatch (R., Utah), who led the
unsuccessful attack on the gun-control measure. The timing of
a potential filibuster was unclear.
   In action on another part of the bill, the Senate narrowly
rejected a Republican attempt to toughen Democratic proposals
to curb appeals by death-row inmates. The Republican
amendment was defeated by a vote of 50-47, but will be put to
another vote today. Both versions of the limits on death-row
appeals would appear to overturn Supreme Court precedent
restricting such appeals, according to a Bush administration
lobbyist. The president has threatened to veto a bill that
would have such an effect.
   The omnibus anti-crime package has a long way to go before
reaching the White House. Even without a filibuster, a final
vote on the bill probably won't come until next week. The
House, meanwhile, is far behind in considering comparable
legislation.
   Smarting from yesterday's defeat, the National Rifle
Association vowed to continue fighting the ban on
semi-automatic weapons. "We lost a skirmish today," said
James Baker, the NRA's director of federal affairs. He
predicted another tough battle when the House debates an
assault-weapon ban later this year.
   The Senate version would bar for three years the import of
five foreign-made assault weapons and the manufacture or sale
of four domestic types. Even with the proposed ban, about a
dozen models of assault weapons would remain available in the
U.S. In a seeming contradiction to its opposition to this
measure, the Bush administration last year banned the import
of certain assault rifles because they aren't suitable for or
adaptable to "sporting purposes."
   Gun-control advocates contend that assault weapons don't
have any legitimate use and have become favorites among
criminals.
   The Senate defeated an amendment to kill the weapons ban
on a vote of 52-48. The narrow margin prompted opponents to
move for a second vote, but the Senate voted 50-49 not to
reconsider. Sen. John Chafee (R., R.I.) didn't participate in
the second vote, and Minority Leader Robert Dole of Kansas,
who initially voted for the gun-control measure for purely
parliamentary reasons, switched sides on the second vote.
   In a desperation maneuver, NRA lobbyists contacted the
office of Vice President Dan Quayle to secure his vote in
case of a tie. But the vice president never appeared in the
Senate yesterday, and the effort became moot when the pro-gun
forces came up one vote short.
   Several longtime NRA supporters ultimately supported the
assault-weapon ban sponsored by Sen. Dennis DeConcini (D.,
Ariz.) after voting against broader restrictions proposed by
Sen. Howard Metzenbaum (D., Ohio).
   Majority Leader George Mitchell of Maine, for example,
risked angering hunters in his home state by voting for the
DeConcini version. "Our nation can accept some limits on
firearms ownership when the firearms in question have no
valid hunting or sporting purpose," he said in a prepared
statement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Budget Summit May Find That Tax Increases
   Are Piece of Cake Compared With Spending Cuts
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Taxes may be the easy part. Just wait until
the budget summit turns to cutting spending.
   If negotiators are serious about slashing the deficit by
$50 billion and eschewing gimmickry, budget experts say
they'll have to cut between $10 billion and $15 billion from
projected spending on the Big Four entitlement programs:
Social Security, Medicare, farm spending and federal-employee
benefits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "You've got to go there because that's where the money
is," says David Mathiasen, a former White House budget
official who is now at the General Accounting Office.
   It's also where the politics of reducing the deficit gets
treacherous. The senior-citizen lobby, farm organizations and
government unions all have proven their ability to repel
attacks. "The broader and more equitable a deficit-reduction
strategy, the more opposition," Mr. Mathiasen says. "Every
strategy gets pulled apart into individual pieces, the
interest groups beat the heck out of you and all the
politicians run for cover."
   Summiteers naturally will look elsewhere, too. But most
budget analysts figure that an honest $50 billion
deficit-reduction package will get no more than $25 billion
in taxes, perhaps $10 billion to $15 billion from the
Pentagon and, therefore, $10 billion to $15 billion from
everything else.
   Much of that "everything else" isn't likely to contribute
significantly. Neither Congress nor the White House shows any
appetite for cutbacks in spending on the poor or on veterans.
And the summit is unlikely to pare much from the $200 billion
pot that Congress appropriates annually for everything from
the space program to the war on drugs, a category that
includes everything that Congress and President Bush want to
increase. Whatever cuts negotiators find in this category are
likely to be offset by increases elsewhere.
   And that brings the focus back to the Big Four. They stand
out because they would largely escape the pain of
across-the-board budget cuts if the summit fails. By law, the
government must pay all eligible comers, no matter how
strained federal finances. There's no annual vote by Congress
to spend the money and, therefore, no bill for a president to
attack with the line-item veto that the administration talks
about so avidly.
   Some long-time budget watchers think this may be the year
that these popular programs feel the knife. "Once you start
talk about raising taxes, you're going to see an appetite for
spending restraint like you've never seen," predicts Carol
Cox, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal
Budget, a coalition of former members of Congress and
business executives.
   Here's a closer look at the Big Four: Social Security
benefits represent more than 20 cents of every dollar the
government spends. Cutbacks in Social Security have figured
for years in backroom talk about "the big deal" to reduce the
deficit. But recent debate over payroll taxes and the growing
trust fund surplus make politicians of all stripes more wary
than ever about touching benefits. "Social Security this year
will take in $70 billion more than it pays out," says Senate
Budget Committee Chairman James Sasser (D., Tenn.).
   One big money-saver would be suspending cost-of-living
adjustments for one year. This would shrink the deficit by
nearly $8 billion in the first year, the Congressional Budget
Office says. But it would hurt poor senior citizens as well
as rich ones. Few insiders expect the summit to embrace this
option -- unless there's a pact to freeze inflation
adjustments to all government spending programs and to
income-tax brackets as well.
   A more likely option is increasing federal income taxes on
Social Security benefits paid to the well-off elderly. Today,
50% of the benefits paid to couples earning more than $32,000
(and individuals earning more than $25,000) are taxed.
Subjecting 85% of the benefits to taxes would bring in $1
billion the first fiscal year and $4 billion the next. This
may prove attractive to Democrats seeking something to
balance against regressive tax increases, but some in
Congress are fearful of stirring up the elderly who
campaigned so successfully to repeal the surtax imposed last
year to pay for expanded Medicare benefits. Medicare is a
target not only because it costs so much -- about $100
billion a year -- but because it's growing frighteningly
fast. Without changes, the White House budget office says,
Medicare spending will exceed spending on Social Security
retirees and defense early in the next decade.
   Budget analysts increasingly are coming to the conclusion
that attempts to restrain Medicare's growth by tinkering with
the rules will fail without broader changes in America's
health-care system. But the budget summit isn't about to
tackle that immense problem. "What we'll end up doing is more
belt-tightening until we have a better sense of the options,"
says Ms. Cox.
   Mr. Bush proposes squeezing hospitals and doctors to save
$5.5 billion next year. Heavily lobbied by local hospitals
and fearful that the quality of health care for the elderly
will suffer, Congress shows no sign of going along with that
plan -- even though under the plan, total Medicare spending
still would rise by almost 7%. Budgets passed by the House
and by the Senate Budget Committee would save much less than
half the $5.5 billion in cuts Mr. Bush proposes. Budget
committee chairmen say they doubt Congress will agree to pare
much more than $2 billion.
   Farm subsidies are particularly vulnerable this year, both
because the farm economy is strong and because congressional
critics of farm subsidies already are geared up for a fight
over a pending farm bill. Unlike Medicare, farm-subsidy
formulas could easily be restructured to cost less. "Tell
those folks (on the agricultural committees) how much they
have to spend and they can design a farm program for that
amount of money," Ms. Cox says.
   But there's only so much the summit will get out of a
program that currently costs $12 billion a year, though
administration officials warn that a year or two of bumper
crops could drive the cost far higher. The political
difficulty of squeezing out even the $1.5 billion that Mr.
Bush proposed was underscored when Sen. Sasser exempted farm
subsidies from his deficit-reduction plan to garner committee
votes.
   Federal-employee benefits also are a perennial target of
the White House budget office because so much money is
involved -- more than $50 billion in pensions and about $7
billion in health-care costs for active and retired workers.
   Skipping inflation adjustment on pensions for one year, as
Mr. Bush proposes, would save the government $1.5 billion.
But Congress is likely to reject this as long as Social
Security recipients get their inflation increase. An option
that's slightly more palatable politically: Eliminate annual
cost-of-living adjustments only for early retirees and
promise them a catchup raise at age 62. The Congressional
Budget Office figures this would save only $500 million the
first year, but $9.3 billion over five years.
   ---
                  Where All the Money Goes
                                                                                                       

       Fiscal 1990 outlays, dollar amounts in billions,
               And as a percent of total budget
                                                                                                       

   Farm subsidies ...................  $ 12.3  --   1%
   Federal retirees .................  $ 52.5  --   4%
   Medicare .........................  $ 96.6  --   8%
   Social Security ..................  $246.0  --  21%
   Interest .........................  $175.6  --  15%
   Defense ..........................  $296.3  --  25%

                                                                                                       

   Source: Office of Management and Budget
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Lawyer Is Cleared in Ashland-Secrets Case
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   ASH MDEST FREST WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A Florida lawyer accused of helping a former Ashland Oil
Co. chairman sell company secrets to National Iranian Oil Co.
was found innocent on all charges by a federal jury in New
York.
   Charles D. Barnett, 39 years old, had been charged with
one count of conspiracy and six counts of fraud in connection
with the alleged scheme. But in a defeat for federal
prosecutors -- and for Ashland, whose private investigator
first brought the allegations to the attention of prosecutors
-- the jury said Mr. Barnett had committed no crime.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Instead, several jurors, speaking after the verdict was
read, said the jury decided that Ashland cheated the
Iranians. Based on the judge's instructions, the jurors
couldn't convict Mr. Barnett if they believed Ashland had
committed fraud or deceit against Iran.
   The U.S. alleged the scheme to sell the documents arose
when Orin Atkins, who was forced to resign as Ashland
chairman in 1981, became hard-pressed for money. Mr. Atkins
pleaded guilty last year to conspiracy and wire fraud and
agreed to cooperate with prosecutors.
   The U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan, N.Y., called Mr.
Atkins, formerly a close friend of Mr. Barnett's father, to
testify against the lawyer.
   Roy Furmark, an oil broker and middleman in the Reagan
administration's arms sales to Iran, also pleaded guilty to
conspiracy for his role in the Ashland scheme and cooperated
with prosecutors.
   Prosecutors alleged that Iran planned to use the stolen
documents in a civil suit it filed against Ashland in 1985
for failure to pay for oil that Iran delivered to it; under
the alleged scheme, in return for the documents Iran would
pay Mr. Barnett and others a cut of any damages it won. In
the oil-delivery case, the Iranian oil company sued Ashland
for $780 million in damages, and settled the case last year
when Ashland agreed to pay $325 million.
   A spokesman for the Ashland, Ky., company said the Barnett
prosecution "was a criminal case brought by the government
involving matters in which two persons have already pleaded
guilty and Ashland was the victim. Any statement that Ashland
defrauded the Iranians is ludicrous. Even the Iranians, in a
10-year dispute . . ., never made that allegation."
   "It's been two years out of my life," said Mr. Barnett,
who plans to return to his corporate and real-estate law
practice in West Palm Beach. "I never thought I was guilty of
anything. I didn't understand why the others pleaded guilty."
   Marvin B. Segal, Mr. Barnett's lawyer, argued in court
that his client was performing a legitimate legal service for
the Iranian company, rather than conspiring in an illegal
scheme. After the verdict, several jurors spent about an hour
discussing the case with Mr. Segal and other lawyers. Mr.
Segal said jurors were most concerned about "what Ashland had
done and what they saw as a fraud committed by Ashland. . . .
Their position is, why isn't the government going after
Ashland?"
   Herve Gouraige, the assistant U.S. attorney who prosecuted
the case, said, "We accept the jury's verdict," but declined
to comment further.
   Mr. Atkins and Mr. Furmark are scheduled to be sentenced
next month.
   ---
   STEPTOE &amp; JOHNSON will create Moscow office as joint
venture with Soviets.
   Although other U.S. law firms have established Moscow
offices, the Steptoe &amp; Johnson venture will be the first law
office run jointly by Americans and Soviets. Apco Associates,
a unit of Arnold &amp; Porter, has a joint venture with the
Soviets, but Apco technically isn't a law firm but a law-firm
subsidiary engaged in non-legal consulting.
   The Steptoe venture, named InterLex, will be staffed by
U.S. and Soviet lawyers. Steptoe Managing Partner Robert
Jordan said Sarah Carey, who became a Steptoe partner after
leaving the now-defunct Heron Burchette Ruckert &amp; Rothwell,
was instrumental in setting up the venture, and would serve
as its chairwoman. He said InterLex's clients would include
companies that sell computer equipment and such raw materials
as oil and metals. He declined to name any.
   Mr. Jordan said the new law office, which he expects to be
in operation within 30 days, would seek to provide clients
with access to Soviet officials. "Sometimes that has a nasty
connotation," he said, but more often it simply means
"knowing people." Among InterLex's employees will be Irina
Savelyeva, who according to a Steptoe news release was "a
principal author of the new Soviet copyright-protection
legislation." Asked whether the concept of the "revolving
door" is being introduced to the Soviet Union, Mr. Jordan
said Ms. Savelyeva didn't have a "formal position" with the
Soviet government.
   But Mr. Jordan didn't rule out hiring former Soviet
officials in the future: "I suppose anything is possible."
   ---
   LAW FIRM EXPANSION slowed in 1989 at 500 largest firms,
survey finds.
   Amid slower overall growth in the economy and a decline in
major corporate transactions, the nation's largest law firms
appear to be more cautious about taking on new partners and
associates. The 500 largest firms grew 7.7% in 1989, compared
with growth of 9.2% in 1988 and 9.9% in 1987, according to
the survey conducted by Of Counsel, a publication of Prentice
Hall Law &amp; Business.
   But growth continued unabated at the so-called megafirms.
Chicago-based Baker &amp; McKenzie, which remains the nation's
largest law firm, expanded 15%, to 1,487 lawyers from 1,294.
The next largest, Cleveland's Jones, Day, Reavis &amp; Pogue,
grew 22% to 1,150 lawyers. New York's Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meager &amp; Flom reached 1,032 lawyers, up more than 10%.
   While most of the firms surveyed expanded modestly last
year, 83 shrank in size. The slowed expansion overall appears
to reflect declining demand for legal work, rising expenses
for office overhead, and growing corporate use of in-house
lawyers.
   Many of the firms in the survey indicated that their
reluctance to take on new lawyers could continue through
1990, particularly if the slump in high-paying mergers and
acqusitions work continues.
   "I don't think we're going to see a comeback" this year,
said Paul Roy, a partner at the legal consulting firm
Hildebrandt Inc., of Somerville, N.J.
   ---
   CONVICTIONS of lawyer and accountant in collapse of
Landbank Equity upheld.
   The federal appeals in Richmond, Va., denied appeals on
behalf of Frank E. Butler III, a lawyer and co-founder of
Landbank Equity Corp. and Owen R. Thornton the
second-mortgage lender's former accountant. Landbank, of
Virginia Beach, Va., and once among the largest
second-mortgage companies in the nation, collapsed in 1985
leaving more than $100 million in debts.
   Messrs. Thornton and Butler were convicted of multiple
fraud and racketeering counts for falsifying credit
applications, doctoring financial statements and
misappropriating loan proceeds.
   Both began serving prison terms in January 1989 but
appealed on grounds that their jury was tainted when their
co-defendant, a former Landbank vice-president, committed
suicide after the jury was impaneled. The appeal judges
upheld a lower court's refusal to grant a mistrial.
   The judge in the case, J. Calvitt Clarke Jr., polled
jurors individually before allowing the trial to continue.
   ---
   UNIVERSITY SUES NEA, claiming new grant requirements are
unconstitutional.
   Last year, Congress passed a law requiring grant
recipients to certify that none of the funds will be used to
promote "materials which in the judgment of the National
Endowment for the Arts may be considered obscene." The law
was adopted amid controversy over NEA funding of certain
exhibitions, such as the work of the late photographer Robert
Mapplethorpe.
   In its suit, filed in federal court in Manhattan, the New
School for Social Research said the new restrictions violate
grant recipients' rights to free speech and due process. The
suit said the obscenity requirement is too vague to be
constitutional. The school recently won a $45,000 grant to
help fund a sculpture garden, but it has refused to sign the
required certification as a matter of principle, said Floyd
Abrams, attorney for the school.
   Mr. Abrams said the suit is the first challenging the
constitutionality of the new restrictions.
   He said it will require the court to determine "whether
the NEA can require the surrender of First Amendment rights
as the price-tag for a grant."
   ---
   Edward Felsenthal contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900524-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900524-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   DCI DH W GCO CTME NLCS CAW
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Donaldson Co          $ .74    ...      $ .57 (13)   29.82
  Dayton Hudson           .72    ...        .66 (16)    9.09
  Westvaco Corp           .71    ...        .66 (10)    7.58
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Genesco Inc           ($.07)   ...      ($.03) (3)    ...
  Clothestime Inc        (.10)   ...       (.05) (3)    ...
  Nat'l Computer Sys      .06    ...        .09  (3)   33.33
  Caesars World           .44    ...        .47  (8)    6.38
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
