<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   New Jersey's Florio Has Won Battles
   But Faces Tax Revolt, Loss of Assembly
   ----
   By James M. Perry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   TRENTON, N.J. -- Democratic Gov. Jim Florio has rung up
more legislative victories in his first six months in office
than most governors accomplish in an entire career.
   But in the process he's suffered a stunning political
defeat.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "He's lost his credibility," says Stephen Salmore, a
Rutgers University political scientist, "and next year he may
lose control of the state Assembly."
   The problem, basically, is that the 52-year-old Mr. Florio
rammed the biggest and most complicated tax increase in the
state's history through a thoroughly cowed Democratic
legislature and failed to convince confused voters he needed
the money.
   Now he faces a full-scale rebellion, fueled by
sensation-seeking editors at the tabloid daily, the
Trentonian, and rowdy voices in call-in shows at WKXW-FM, the
No. 1 radio station in central New Jersey. Other newspapers
around the state, including the 470,000-circulation Newark
Star Ledger, have questioned on their editorial pages whether
Gov. Florio's tax program will truly benefit the middle
class, as he contends it will.
   More than 400,000 voters reportedly have signed petitions
demanding repeal of the new taxes and passage of legislation
giving them the right to recall elected officeholders. On
July 1, more than 6,000 angry voters surrounded the
Statehouse here in an anti-tax rally.
   "They (the governor and his advisers) miscalculated on the
amount of heat they would have to take," says H.L. "Sandy"
Schwartz III, the Trentonian's publisher. Mr. Schwartz, who
arrived in Trenton early in 1989, dates the emergence of a
new, feistier Trentonian to stories the paper ran last year
about a severed human head found in neighboring Hopewell. The
page-one headline on one of the stories said: "Head had
AIDS." Mr. Schwartz framed the page and hung it in his
office.
   With bizarre headlines like that, and with its unrelenting
attacks on Mr. Florio ("Another Florio Flimflam," screamed
last Tuesday's page-one headline), the paper's circulation
has grown to 72,000 from from 68,000.
   Liberal and conservative commentators, floating high above
the roar of the crowd, have painted what's happening here as
a test for liberal, activist government in the post-Reagan
era. If Gov. Florio can succeed, they say, there is new hope
for liberals.
   Mr. Florio, an eight-term congressman before he was
elected governor with 62% of the vote last November in a
campaign in which he said he didn't think New Jersey needed
new taxes, doesn't see it that way. He says he's just trying
to get New Jersey back on track by balancing his budget and
by making the property tax and school funding more equitable.
"It took eight years (under GOP Gov. Thomas Kean) to get
things this screwed up," he says. "I've been in office six
months. Give me a chance."
   He's done two things. For the short run, he increased the
sales tax to 7% from 6% and expanded its base to include such
things as toilet paper and soap. He says he needed that money
-- about $1.1 billion -- to balance the 1990 budget. At the
same time, he figures he cut about $2 billion from the budget
he inherited from his predecessor, Mr. Kean. He sold off more
than 1,000 state cars, whacked $13 million from the state's
arts council and cut back on state agencies hiring outside
lawyers. He brought in, finally, a budget that showed almost
no increase from Mr. Kean's last budget.
   "I've got to get the message out," the governor says,
"We're the cost-cutters."
   The state's Standard &amp; Poor's credit rating, which had
been put on a special "watch," has been restored to the full
triple-A.
   He could have stopped there -- some of his colleagues now
wish he had. "But we couldn't just do 50% of the job," says
Douglas Berman, the aggressive 37-year-old state treasurer
and a principal architect of the Florio program. "We had to
get New Jersey off the fiscal roller coaster. We had been
living with too much reliance on the property tax and we were
facing a (state) supreme court ruling we expected would force
us to change the school-funding system."
   Mr. Florio, a high-school dropout who eventually got his
diploma by taking a correspondence course (and going on from
there to college and law school), wanted to change the way
education was financed in the state. "He felt it in his gut,"
says Mr. Berman.
   And so Mr. Florio, with Mr. Berman at his side, plunged
into what turned out to be a deep political thicket, from
which neither one has yet emerged.
   They acted on the premise that schools weren't equal in
New Jersey -- a curious state with large rural areas and
unusually wide swings between wealthy, manicured suburbs and
poor, rubble-strewn cities. They believed -- correctly, as it
turned out -- the state supreme court would come to the same
conclusion.
   Their solution: Shift resources from the wealthy districts
to the poorer ones, and impose a tougher, more progressive
income tax to pay for the improvements. This proposal will
bring in an additional $1.3 billion a year -- $600 million
for schools, $400 million in property-tax rebates and $300
million to pay for social-welfare services formerly picked up
by county and municipal governments.
   Ultimately, under the new legislation, 146 of the state's
578 school districts -- the wealthiest of the lot -- will be
cut adrift without state aid. Of the rest, 362 will get more
aid and 70 will get about the same. To maintain educational
services at levels they have long expected, the 146 wealthy
districts, educating about 15% of the state's students,
probably will have to raise their property taxes. Gov.
Florio's experts hope some of them will find ways to cut
costs -- by consolidation, for example. Some high schools in
wealthy districts have fewer than 300 students.
   Parts of the program won't lock in completely until 1995,
and no changes in school funding will be made at all next
year.
   The $400 million for property-tax rebates is aimed at
alleviating what Mr. Florio and his advisers see as another
inequality. They point to a typical situation in which a
couple that bought a house 20 years ago for $30,000 is living
next door to a couple that bought a similar house two years
ago for $250,000. The longtime residents can't pay their
taxes; the newcomers can. Under the Florio plan, anyone
paying more than 5% of their household income in property
taxes gets a rebate, starting at $100 and rising to $500. But
the checks won't begin appearing until late next year.
   "That's one of the problems," says Mary Segers, a Rutgers
political scientist. "Nobody believes they really are going
to get any benefits."
   "We are helping the middle class," insists Gov. Florio,
conceding at the same time that the message hasn't gotten
through. The ultimate frustration for Mr. Florio and his
allies is that the people who seem to be the angriest --
working-class and moderate-income voters -- are precisely the
people he hoped to assist.
   But there was still more tinkering. To get enough money to
the poorer districts to make a difference, Mr. Florio
proposed raising the income tax for "wealthy" individuals and
couples. The top rate was doubled to 7% and it arbitrarily
locked in for individuals making $75,000 a year and couples
making $150,000. The governor's advisers say 90% of the new
income-tax revenue will come from individuals and couples
making more than $100,000 a year. Yet, individuals making
more than $35,000 a year and couples reporting more than
$70,000 a year also will be paying more.
   Hardly anyone in New Jersey understands how it works.
   "Are you telling me a couple making $70,000 a year, with
kids in college, with auto insurance to pay, with the new
sales tax, is wealthy?" asks Garabed "Chuck" Haytaian, the
Assembly's minority leader. "How much have you got left to
eat on?"
   But, the governor's aides insist, Mr. Haytaian's couple
won't be paying the full rate. Couples making between $70,000
and $80,000 will pay 5%, up from 3.5%. Those making between
$80,000 and $150,000 will pay 6.5%. And, over $150,000, the
top 7% rate kicks in.
   Gov. Florio knows he faces an immense challenge in selling
his program to New Jersey's angry voters. "I've got to get
through to the voters over the clatter of the Trentonian and
the shrill voices at the radio station," he says. "But as we
explain what we're doing, as we point out we're the ones
correcting the oppressive costs that have been visited upon
the people of New Jersey over the last eight years, that as
the tangible results start to play out, people will be
supportive. Middle-income people -- the vast majority of the
people in New Jersey -- will see the virtues of what this has
been all about."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<LP>
   From the Alan Guttmacher Institute's report "Abortion
Services in the United States, 1987 and 1988," by Stanley K.
Henshaw and Jennifer Van Vort, in the May/June issue of
Family Planning Perspectives:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The basic trends in abortion service delivery that were
observed in 1985 have continued through 1988. The
concentration of abortion services in specialized abortion
clinics has continued to increase as a result of growth in
the number of such providers and higher caseloads per
provider. Conversely, abortion services in hospitals have
been declining as a result of lower caseloads and
discontinuation of abortion services altogether. The number
of physicians providing small numbers of abortions in their
offices has stabilized, but their average caseload is
smaller. . . .
   It is . . . important that physician and hospital services
be available in sparsely populated areas where it is not
economical to establish clinics. The loss of hospital
abortion services has left increasing numbers of women
without any provider in their local areas. It is surprising,
however, that the loss of providers has been limited to
hospitals, considering the problems confronting private
physicians and clinics; anti-abortion harassment and violence
have most often been directed at non-hospital providers. In
addition, private physicians and clinics may have difficulty
in obtaining insurance, paying legal and security expenses,
and stretching income based on fees that have not kept up
with inflation.
   The net decrease in the number of hospitals that perform
abortions has had the unfortunate effect of reducing abortion
services in states and counties where they were already
scarce. Extreme inequality of access to such services already
exists, even without new state restrictions that may result
from the decision in Webster v. Reproductive Health Services.
Women in many parts of the country have to travel long
distances to obtain abortions, and those who manage to
overcome such obstacles are likely to have their abortions
later in pregnancy, when the health risks are greater.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Effort to Repeal
   Massachusetts Tax
   On Services Fails
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- An effort to repeal a new Massachusetts law that
imposes a sales tax on services was stymied despite heavy
lobbying by business and professional groups opposed to the
tax.
   Opponents of the sales tax haven't given up, however.
Lobbyists continue to argue their cases with legislators for
amendments exempting their clients from the tax. Several
groups, including those representing lawyers, newspapers and
accountants, are preparing to challenge the law in court.
Meanwhile, the tax increase could be repealed by an
initiative on the state's November ballot calling for a tax
rollback in the state of Massachusetts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "What portends is a long uphill legal battle," warned Jack
McCarthy, president-elect of the Massachusetts Society of
CPAs.
   One of the most ambitious among industrial states, the tax
law, passed two weeks ago, imposes a 5% sales tax on 594
businesses. On the list are accounting, public relations,
architecture and engineering. A few services like advertising
and money management are excluded.
   But last Wednesday, in the Massachusetts House Ways and
Means Committee, a motion was made to discuss a measure to
repeal the law and replace it with a new tax increase
proposal that would have virtually eliminated the sales tax
on services.
   The action was taken to appease legislators who had been
badgered by business interests following passage of the
services tax measure and who, some thought, were stalling
approval of the state's budget as a result. But somewhat
surprisingly, the proposal to repeal the law received only
about half the votes needed for consideration and was, in
effect, killed in the state House.
   Meanwhile, over the weekend, legislators approved an
amendment to the law exempting small businesses with five or
fewer employees from the sales tax on services.
   Critics wonder about the timing of the sales tax
expansion. The economic climate in Massachusetts, hurt by an
anemic real-estate market and troubled banks, isn't cheery.
   A new study by Price Waterhouse on behalf of the American
Legislative Exchange Council found that the state's heavy
hand in levying taxes caused Massachusetts to lose $27.4
million in excise tax revenue and $132.6 million in retail
sales from 1975 to 1988. Almost all the money was rechanneled
to New Hampshire, where taxes are much lower.
   Repercussions from the latest tax increase have also
started. Last week the Boston Globe filed a lawsuit
challenging the constitutionality of the new tax law as it
affects newspapers.
   In addition, a tax rollback petition on the state's
November ballot, cosponsored by the Massachusetts High
Technology Council and Citizens for Limited Taxation, calls
for the repeal of any tax increases in 1990, among other
things.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Federal Officials Study Ways to Tighten
   Rules at Troubled School Loan Program
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   SLM
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (EDN)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- As federal officials work to sort out the
financial problems of a large guarantor of student loans, the
government is studying ways to tighten up the program, which
will make nearly $18 billion of education loans this fiscal
year.
   "We're going to have to be much tougher," Sen. Nancy
Kassebaum (R., Kan.) said at a Senate Banking Committee
hearing on the implications of the troubles facing the Higher
Education Assistance Foundation, the guarantee agency plagued
by losses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Bush administration is considering changes in the
program, a major financing source for college and vocational
education. No decisions have been made yet, but officials are
discussing the possibility of requiring co-signers on loans,
credit checks on borrowers, linking some loans to high school
performance and increasing incentives for lenders to weed out
credit risks. The administration will propose the changes
next year.
   Committee members criticized the Education Department for
not moving aggressively enough to curb loan defaults, which
are expected to total about $2.3 billion this fiscal year.
"We will be back to you and asking for other types of
authority" to reduce losses, Ted Sanders, undersecretary of
education, promised the panel.
   During the weekend officials from the Education Department
and the Office of Management and Budget studied the financial
condition of the Higher Education Assistance Foundation, and
reviewed options for transferring HEAF's operations and
nearly $9 billion loan portfolio to another agency.
   Education Department officials are talking with United
Student Aid Funds, another large nonprofit guarantee agency;
the Student Loan Marketing Association, the federally
chartered, stockholder-owned corporation that is the nation's
largest holder of student loans, and state guarantee
agencies, including the Massachusetts Higher Education
Assistance Corp. The government, which is operating with the
help of private financial consultants, isn't likely to settle
HEAF's fate until the end of this week, officials said.
   At the hearing, Mr. Sanders repeated earlier assertions
that HEAF's problems shouldn't hurt students who are trying
to get loans for school this fall, the financial institutions
that make the loans, or the nation's 54 other guarantee
agencies. In addition, he estimated that it would cost the
government less than $100 million to resolve's HEAF's
problems by transferring HEAF's assets to another agency.
Under all the plans the government is considering, HEAF, a
nonprofit corporation based in Overland Park, Kan., would go
out of business.
   Lawrence Hough, the new president of the Student Loan
Marketing Association, which owns $2.4 billion of loans
guaranteed by HEAF, expressed confidence at the hearing that
"HEAF's financial condition poses no material risk of loss to
Sallie Mae." He noted that the loans are reinsured by the
Education Department. Sallie Mae has also made about $800
million of collateralized loans to HEAF and its affiliates.
Mr. Hough said Sallie Mae's stock fell sharply last week
because "the market doesn't understand that in this instance
we're fully collateralized."
   Mr. Hough also expressed confidence that Sallie Mae would
be able to take over HEAF's operations and portfolio without
jeopardizing its top credit rating. If the government were to
accept Sallie Mae's proposal, "we would bring additional
focus and additional competitive levels of service" to the
student loan guarantee field, he said.
   However, other loan industry officials and some government
officials fear that letting Sallie Mae into the guarantee
business would eventually snuff out competition. Sallie Mae,
which was established by the government to help establish a
resale market in student loans, currently owns $13.5 billion
of the $51 billion in guaranteed student loans outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Transport Bill
   Would Bar Trucks'
   Radar Detectors
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   GM
</CO>
<IN>
TRUCKING (TRK)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
RAILROADS (RAI)
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Interstate truckers and bus drivers would be
barred from using radar detectors under federal rules
proposed in a more than $28 billion Senate transportation
bill incorporating major increases in funding for the
Northeast rail corridor in fiscal 1991.
   The Transportation Department would retain discretion to
draft the proposed rules, but the spending measure virtually
dictates that the ban take effect within a year unless
Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner determines that the
prohibition wouldn't improve highway safety.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Radar detectors already are prohibited by a few states,
including Connecticut and Virginia. But the proposed federal
ban would be far more sweeping and would apply to all drivers
of commercial motor vehicles. The proposed rules would take
the form of amendments to federal motor carrier regulations,
and violators would be subject to civil fines or criminal
penalties, according to a legislative report filed by the
Senate Appropriations Committee.
   The underlying measure, approved by the full committee
last week, rejects proposed cuts in rail and mass transit and
represents a nearly 5% increase from the Bush
administration's transportation budget for the fiscal year
beginning Oct. 1. While trimming the larger House-passed
bill, New York and New Jersey senators added almost $150
million for the Northeast rail corridor, and the total
figure, $165 million, represents a more than sixfold increase
in current aid.
   Coast Guard acquisition and construction accounts would be
increased by $40.4 million from the House-passed level. And
while cutting the projects of House lawmakers, senators
salted away hundreds of millions for endeavors of their own.
More than $160 million -- none of which was in the
administration's budget -- was secured for highways backed by
Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd (D.,
W.Va.).
   The proposed Coast Guard budget relies on the transfer of
$300 million from the Pentagon, and the military's fights
over weapon contracts can spill over into Coast Guard
decisions on buying its equipment.
   General Motors Corp.'s Allison Gas Turbine division and
Turbomeca Engine Corp., a Texas unit of Labinal Corp. of
France, have a competing interest in building replacement
engines for the Coast Guard's HH-65 Dolphin helicopter, for
example. The dispute is driven partly by Allison's stake in
the development of its T-800 engine for the Army's costly new
light helicopter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Dance: Bolshoi Gone Bad
   ----
   By Dale Harris
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- Anyone attending the Bolshoi Ballet during its
recently concluded season at the State Theater in Lincoln
Center was assumed to be a potential terrorist. Briefcases,
totes, parcels had to be left in the foyer. Handbags were
allowed inside the auditorium, but only after careful
scrutiny. Ticket holders had to pass through a cordon of
metal detectors. In an era of glasnost, the only possible
explanation for all this is that the company's American
managers were afraid New Yorkers would grow violent when they
saw how bad the Bolshoi has become.
   If so, management underestimated the forbearance of New
Yorkers and overestimated their sophistication. It's true
that after "Ivan the Terrible," the most tedious of the
full-length ballets presented here, somebody booed. By and
large, though, the audience sat dutifully through the
performances until the final curtain, when it put on a show
of enthusiasm -- possibly because people who pay as much as
$105 for orchestra seats need to convince themselves that
they haven't wasted their money.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unfortunately, they had done just that. So had those who
bought the half-price tickets on sale for some performances.
With the exception of the flashier items in the two slightly
different highlights programs given at the end of the
company's two-week stint, nothing really turned the audience
on. Even the troupe's circusy numbers, which the crowd at
Lincoln Center obviously enjoyed more than anything else,
were short on genuine thrills.
   What people were applauding is hard to say. Perhaps simply
a brand name. The Bolshoi of today has none of the virtues
that won the company its world-wide reputation 30 years ago.
The autocratic rule of Yuri Grigorovich, artistic director
and chief choreographer since 1964, has reduced the company
to a level of mediocrity that even undiscriminating audiences
are bound to notice before too long -- especially if, as
seems likely in the present political climate, the troupe
appears here more frequently than in the past. Part of the
company's appeal right now is its relative unfamiliarity.
   Truth to tell, the Bolshoi is sadly short of first-rate
dancers. Though she currently is performing in Britain with a
group called, oddly enough, "The Stars of the Bolshoi
Ballet," Natalia Bessmertnova, now 49, has officially retired
from the company. Lyudmila Semenyaka, at 38, is past her
prime. That leaves only Nina Semizorova and Nina Ananiashvili
to sustain the ballerina repertory with the right kind of
authority and technical proficiency. Ms. Semizorova has
superb legs and feet, and is, moreover, a protegee of the
greatest of postwar Soviet dancers, Galina Ulanova. Despite
this advantage, her style is fussy and her deportment
unbearably arch -- she keeps breaking the tension by fixing
the audience with roguish stares.
   Ms. Ananiashvili is more talented. While her line is not
as beautiful as Ms. Semizorova's, she has a direct and open
manner that lends her a winning air of spontaneity. As she
showed when appearing as a guest artist with New York City
Ballet in the spring of 1988, she has serious artistic
intentions. Unhappily, like her colleague -- indeed, like
virtually every Soviet dancer of today -- she lacks
musicality. Instead of treating the music as a prime artistic
resource, the determinant of rhythmic buoyancy, of
inflection, of scale, she treats it as an accessory to a
conception already there before the actual dancing starts. In
this attitude, she is seconded by the Bolshoi's conductors,
who adjust tempos and phrasing to the individual requirements
of solo artists, even when that means defying musical logic.
   Similarly, in the absorbingly diverse variations that are
the glory of the Grand Pas from Petipa's "Paquita," the four
soloists -- Natalia Arkhipova, Nina Speranskaya, Marina
Nudga, Olga Suvorova -- communicate none of the poetry of
classical ballet, the infinite expressiveness of physical
grace, only its mechanics.
   If the women have little to recommend them, the men have
less. Irek Mukhamedov, the most exciting "danseur noble" the
Bolshoi has developed during the past decade, recently
resigned from the company to join the Royal Ballet in London
and therefore was not on view in New York. Aleksei
Fadeyechev, son of Nicholai Fadeyechev, Ms. Ulanova's partner
during the 1950s, has a strong technique and a pantherine
jump that, given his huge size, is thrilling to see. A better
partner for Ms. Ananiashvili than Andris Liepa, with whom she
was previously paired and who has moved to the Kirov, Mr.
Fadeyechev nevertheless is stolid in phrasing and
inexpressive in demeanor.
   The rest of the male soloists, whether the unconvincingly
aggressive Yuri Vasyuchenko, the uncertain Mark Peretokin or
the overripe Aleksandr Vetrov, are without distinction.
Though they perform all the old Bolshoi tricks -- grand
jetes, multiple pirouettes, air turns and assembles -- they
lack the strength and artistry to sustain the excitement.
   Perhaps one shouldn't blame the dancers. Almost everything
the company performs is the work of Mr. Grigorovich, a
choreographer whose vocabulary is at once impoverished in
means and prosaic in effect. Trapped in works like his "Romeo
and Juliet" and "Ivan the Terrible" -- not to mention his
"Swan Lake," from which he has banished most of the original
choreography and narrative incidents -- the performers
quickly become hobbled. Since he uses the same few steps,
mostly turns, leaps and arabesques, with deadening frequency,
the dancers' technique is sacrificed to tricks, their
artistry to showmanship.
   Mr. Grigorovich's baleful effect on the repertoire is seen
not simply in his own works, but in the drabness of the
Bolshoi's interpretations of Petipa and in the lack of
stylistic comprehensibility that marks the company's
"Petroushka," a travesty attributed without sufficient cause
to choreographer Michel Fokine.
   The company continues its U.S. tour in Chicago (Aug. 1-5),
Los Angeles (Aug. 719), San Diego (Aug. 21-26), Honolulu
(Aug. 29-Sept. 2) and Boston (Sept. 6-13).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OPEC May Face
   Long Wait to See
   Higher Oil Prices
   ---
   Effect of New Output Limits
   Will Be Blunted by Excess
   In World-Wide Supplies
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   With global oil inventories still at their highest levels
in more than eight years, it may be year end before OPEC
starts getting the $21 a barrel it wants for its crude.
   Even if members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries strictly adhere to their new, self-imposed daily
production limit of 22.5 million barrels, bloated inventories
currently hanging over the oil market won't disappear
quickly. That's because robust consumption that had been
sopping up OPEC's excesses is lagging.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Petroleum demand world-wide has edged up barely 1% so far
this year; even the thriving economies in Asia that were
thirsty for oil last year have cooled somewhat. And oil usage
in the U.S., one of the world's largest energy consumers, has
declined from 1989 levels by at least 2% so far this year,
according to U.S. Energy Department estimates.
   Global inventories, which by some projections stand at
about 1.5 billion barrels of crude, excluding Eastern bloc
countries, peaked in May and have declined slightly since.
Winter oil demand also will help to whittle stocks down
further later this year.
   "But the situation is still fairly grim," said John
Redpath, analyst for Energy Security Analysis Inc., a firm
that tracks oil stocks world-wide. "Working off those
inventories will be a slow process."
   During the first half of this year, OPEC swamped the
market with crude. By estimates of its own economists, its
producers poured a surplus of 2.7 million barrels of oil into
inventories each day in the second quarter alone. Now OPEC
must wait for the damage it inflicted on the supply and
demand balance to be undone.
   Even Hisham Nazer, Saudi Arabia's oil minister,
acknowledged that it could take the rest of the year to
restore order. The agreement in Geneva setting a new target
price of $21 a barrel for OPEC crude isn't an instant
panacea, he suggested, but more a springboard for next year's
prices. "The price was deteriorating to such an extent that
it wasn't only hurting us in the short term, but it was
hurting us in the long term, for 1991," he told Dow Jones
International Petroleum Report. "Everything you see here {in
this agreement} is something for the future."
   Burgeoning inventories coupled with the realization that
OPEC overproduction wasn't going to be reined in caused some
oil prices earlier this year to tumble by more than $8 a
barrel. The price for some lower grade Persian Gulf crudes
that are part of OPEC's average even approached single
digits.
   In recent weeks, prices rallied as Iraq openly threatened
military action against Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates
if the two chronic OPEC quota violators didn't cut back. But
then buying fervor cooled and by the time the Geneva meeting
ended, the reaction to rhetoric had about fizzled.
   "It was the first time anyone threatened overproducers
with a gun," said William Hermann, chief economist for
Chevron Corp. explaining why prices initially jumped. "But
then reality set in. There's a big overhang of stocks;
there's a lot of oil out there."
   Though some grades of U.S. crude currently exceed $20 a
barrel, most major grades of OPEC crude are still below $17.
   Experts are confident that supply and demand will become
balanced and OPEC's new $21 target will be reached at some
point, however. They note that for the first time in memory
members actually appear ready to adhere to their quotas.
"Iraq as the enforcer has become the key," said Charles
Maxwell, senior energy strategist for C.J. Lawrence. "Prices
aren't any longer an economic calculation so much as a
political-military calculation."
   Iraq needs cash to rebuild its economy, shattered by its
now-ended war against Iran. To refill its coffers, it needs
higher oil prices. So, "tolerance of {overproduction by}
Kuwait and UAE is at an end," said Ted Eck, chief economist
for Amoco Corp.
   While it isn't certain that Iraq's mercurial leader Saddam
Hussein would actually turn his battle-hardened army loose on
former ally Kuwait, he is generating considerable fear among
Persian Gulf powers. Some experts think he intends to sow
political unrest to weaken neighboring governments so as to
establish himself as the undisputed Arab leader of the Middle
East. "Before they used to worry about Khomeini {of Iran}
exporting his revolution," said Lawrence Goldstein, who
follows Mideast oil politics closely for the Petroleum
Industry Research Foundation. "Now they've got Hussein."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Harleysville to Buy
   Two Insurance Units
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HGIC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HARLEYSVILLE, Pa. -- Harleysville Group Inc., a regional
holding company for four property and casualty insurers, said
it agreed to acquire two property and casualty insurance
units of Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Co., Hartford, Conn.,
but didn't disclose the value of the cash transaction.
   Harleysville Group said it will purchase all two million
shares outstanding of Phoenix General Insurance Co.,
Hartford, and all 1,539 shares outstanding of New York
Casualty Insurance Co., Watertown, N.Y., subject to approval
by regulators and the boards of both parent companies. Last
year, property and casualty insurance premiums totaled $8.8
million at Phoenix General and $23.1 million at New York
Casualty.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Harleysville Group had net written premiums of $300.8
million in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Micrografx Expects
   Profit for First Period
   Since Going Public
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MGXI MSFT
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   RICHARDSON, Texas -- Micrografx Inc. is "real comfortable"
with analysts' estimates that it will report net income of
$430,000, or 11 cents a share, for its first quarter, ended
June 30, said J. Paul Grayson, chairman.
   Micrografx, which designs and sells personal computer
graphics software, had profit of $270,000, or seven cents a
share, a year earlier. Analysts expect sales to reach $5
million in this quarter, compared with $3.9 million in the
1989 period. The earnings report will be the first since
Micrografx went public June 19.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Grayson said Micrografx owes its success to Microsoft
Corp.'s successful Windows 3.0 -- a graphics package that put
a friendlier face on the Microsoft's ubiquitous MS-DOS
personal computer operating system. Mr. Grayson and his
brother George, Micrografx's president, were among the first
to design software based on Windows. That was in 1985, when
the Microsoft package was scorned as a pale imitation of
Apple Computer Corp. graphics.
   Now, WorkGroup Technologies, a Hampton, N.H., market
research company, expects Microsoft to ship 1.8 million
copies of Windows by year's end. "A year ago it was starting
to look like we were geniuses," Mr. Grayson joked. "This year
people decided we could predict the future."
   As users shop for software compatible with Windows, said
David Bayer, an analyst with Montgomery Securities in San
Francisco, "the strongest single-product category next year
will be Windows application software."
   Micrografx cut staff and overhead as its annual sales
growth fell from 100% to 60% in fiscal 1990, ended March 31,
and its margins tightened. Analysts forecast fiscal 1991
sales growth of about 60%.
   Even so, investors enthusiastically embraced the company's
initial public offering. Underwriters estimated an offering
price of $11 to $13, but the stock opened at $16 a share and
traded up to its present level of around $23.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Defense in Free Fall
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   Congress is treating the defense budget as if this is
1928. That's the year the world outlawed war.
   Senator Sam Nunn, putative heir to Scoop Jackson, has cut
President Bush's $307 billion fiscal 1991 budget request by
$18 billion, murdered the Milstar communications satellite,
and intends to kill strategic defense. Les Aspin, ringmaster
at the House Armed Services circus, wants to raise the cuts
to $24 billion. He's also now signed up with the strategic
tag team of Ron Dellums (D., Calif.) and John Kasich (R.,
Ohio) to kill the B-2 Stealth bomber.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Clearly, the 1980s defense buildup accomplished its
purpose and we can now afford to spend less. Defense
Secretary Dick Cheney's budget would gradually cut defense by
2% a year to a 4% share of the economy by 1995 -- the lowest
share in 50 years. Yet Congress wants a free fall.
   Someone ought to take a moment to notice that while the
Soviets are in retreat in Eastern Europe they retain troops
there. Even more to the point, their undiminished strategic
arsenal still represents the principal threat to U.S.
security. Meanwhile, the Soviet Union is in an increasingly
revolutionary situtation, with great promise but also the
risk of finding its own Bonaparte. And even if all goes well
with the Soviets, someone should look at a map of the Persian
Gulf, where the U.S. Navy went on alert after Iraq's Saddam
Hussein moved 30,000 troops to the Kuwait border, threatening
a new war in the Achilles heel of Western interests.
   But Congress is putting its own priorities on display. Its
supposed military masterminds, Rep. Aspin and Sen. Nunn, are
threatening precisely the programs best suited to the most
likely threat in the year 2000. To take military action
against some future Saddam Hussein, or to hold the kind of
plausible threat that might deter him, you would ask
precisely for an invisible long-range bomber, and for a
shield to protect the U.S. from the small force of
intercontinental ballistic missiles he may by then possess.
   The B-2 was designed as a strategic nuclear-armed bomber,
and it does instantly degrade the Soviets' $350 billion air
defense system. But it's even better as a weapon for the
post-Cold War era. It can project power as far as 10,000
miles (with one refueling), a critical need as U.S. bases
fold up overseas and aircraft carriers become scarcer and
more vulnerable. Unlike cruise missiles, the B-2 is reusable.
Because it's difficult for radar to detect, it can perform a
mission with minimal losses. In its Libyan raid, the U.S.
lost two crewmen who probably would have survived in stealth
aircraft; how many future pilots will Congress vote to kill
this week?
   Mr. Aspin says we'd never use so expensive a weapon
against a Libya, though the F-111s we did use cost $36
million apiece and one was lost. The U.S. also used B-52s in
Vietnam. It's true the B-2 is absurdly expensive ($63 billion
for 75 planes), but $35 billion already has been spent on
R&amp;D. Mr. Aspin would throw that investment down the sinkhole.
   Mr. Nunn promises to try to keep the B-2, but he hopes to
kill SDI. He plans to support an amendment that would gut
spending for Brilliant Pebbles, the promising little gizmos
that might one day intercept missiles in space. This would
foreclose any chance of deploying a space defense in the
1990s, though the CIA says 15 countries will have ballistic
missiles by the year 2000. Brilliant Pebbles also might
function as "brilliant eyes," satellites that would help all
kinds of U.S. weaponry on the ground and at sea. In any case,
the Soviets continue to roll out SS-24 and SS-25 nuclear
missiles -- targeted at the U.S. The current political
movement in the Soviet Union is in large part a result of the
challenge represented by SDI and stealth technologies, and
this is precisely where the U.S. could keep a technological
edge in the future.
   Lest we be unfair, Congressmen will vote to continue one
kind of defense spending. In killing Brilliant Pebbles,
Senator Nunn would earmark much of the remaining SDI money to
projects in Alabama and New Mexico, the home of colleagues
Richard Shelby and Jeff Bingaman. Last January Mr. Cheney
proposed closing 35 military bases and reducing forces at 20
more, but Mr. Aspin and colleague Pat Schroeder are resisting
like Texans at the Alamo. Strategy may go, but pork remains.
The Cold War may be over, but taxpayers will never know.
   President Bush gave a thoughtful speech the other day
about the need for "peacetime engagement" with the world, an
engagement that requires military strength. But with Congress
bent on irresponsibility, the commander in chief is going to
have to decide if he was elected to preside over American
disarmament.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   `Hacking' Crackdown
   Is Dealt a Setback
   In Trial in Chicago
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   BLS
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- In a setback for the federal crackdown on
computer "hackers," prosecutors dropped felony charges
against a computer whiz accused of conspiring to steal a
sensitive document from a BellSouth Corp. subsidiary.
   The closely watched trial, which began here last week, had
been seen by some as a test of First Amendment rights of
operators of electronic "bulletin boards," computers that
store and forward text over phone lines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the case was dropped after testimony showed the
document wasn't the potentially dangerous and proprietary
information that the government had said it was, said Sheldon
Zenner, attorney for the defendant, 20-year-old Craig
Neidorf, of Chesterfield, Mo.
   Mr. Neidorf was charged with conspiring with three Georgia
men who admitted breaking into Southern Bell Telephone Co.'s
computer systems. The three pleaded guilty to computer fraud
last month and are scheduled to be sentenced in September.
   Mr. Neidorf's case differed from the Georgia cases in that
he wasn't accused of "hacking," or illegally entering the
Southern Bell computers. Prosecutors instead focused on his
role as an operator of the electronic bulletin board on which
the document had appeared.
   The focus of the case was a Southern Bell document
describing the administration of its emergency 911 telephone
system. The government alleged that electronic publication of
the document by Mr. Neidorf could have led to a disruption of
the system. But the defense showed that the document
contained information commonly available and could not have
been used to endanger the 911 system.
   A spokeswoman for the prosecutor, Assistant U.S. Attorney
William Cook, said, "We received information during the
course of the trial that changed our case drastically, and we
no longer felt that felony charges were appropriate." She
said the defendant agreed to submit to pre-trial diversion, a
form of court supervision similar to probation. "If he keeps
his nose clean for a period of time, he won't have a criminal
record," the spokeswoman said. She added that "the trial
never got to the First Amendment issues."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Western Digital
   Says Net Doubled
   In Its 4th Quarter
   ----
   By Jim Herron Zamora
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   WDC IBM WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Western Digital Corp.'s net income more
than doubled in the fourth quarter ended June 30 to $9.5
million, or 32 cents a share, from $4.3 million, or 15 cents
a share, a year earlier.
   Revenue rose 21% to $293.9 million from $243.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Western Digital said the improved results were spurred by
a large order for disk drives in its storage products
division.
   For the year, net fell 29% to $24.2 million, or 82 cents a
share, from $34.3 million, or $1.18 a share, in fiscal 1989.
Revenue rose 8% to $1.07 billion from $992.1 million.
   Roger W. Johnson, Western Digital chairman, president and
chief executive officer, attributed the year to year drop to
poor first-quarter results. He said results in the quarter
were hurt by hurricane damage to a company plant in Puerto
Rico, as well as a rapid change in graphics technology that
damped sales of the company's graphic boards when
accompanying new monitors were in short supply.
   The company's storage products unit, which represents
about 75% of Western Digital's business, has helped bring
earnings back up. The unit, which manufactures storage
controllers, chips, and disk drives, secured a $38 million
order for intelligent disk drives -- its largest ever for
those drives -- in the fourth quarter.
   Western Digital also reached development agreements with
International Business Machines Corp., Mr. Johnson said.
Terms of the agreements weren't disclosed.
   Separately, Western Digital named Kathryn A. Braun,
formerly senior vice president and general manager of storage
products, executive vice president.
   In her new post, Ms. Braun, 39 years old, will oversee the
company's move toward so-called "interarchitecture" --
designing, developing and marketing complete packages of
storage and microprocessor products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FDA Halts the Sale
   Of Cal-Ban Diet Pills
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5A
</SO>
<CO>
   HCP.A HCPAF
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Food and Drug Administration halted the
distribution of Cal-Ban 3000 diet pills after receiving
numerous reports of the pills swelling in the throats of
consumers and causing injuries.
   Health Care Products Inc., Lutz, Fla., was directed to
recall all Cal-Ban 3000 tablets and capsules on the U.S.
market as the FDA moved toward banning more than 100
diet-product ingredients, including guar gum, sea kelp and
karaya gum, that have never been proven effective.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agency advised consumers against taking the Cal-Ban
products after investigating 19 reports of throat
obstructions. Cal-Ban's active ingredient is guar gum, a
complex sugar that swells when wet and can create a sense of
fullness in the stomach. But if Cal-Ban pills become stuck in
the throat or esophagus, they can swell and cause
obstructions, according to Peter Rheinstein, director of the
FDA's office of drug standards.
   Ten dieters on Cal-Ban have been hospitalized, and one
person died of a blood clot that reached the lungs a week
after undergoing surgery for an obstructed throat, Dr.
Rheinstein said.
   On July 18, Florida health officials ordered Health Care
Products, which also does business as Anderson Pharmacals,
Tampa, Fla., to stop selling Cal-Ban 3000 on the strength of
50 cases involving injuries. The FDA plans to look into those
cases. The agency is investigating similar diet products to
determine if they pose the same health hazard as Cal-Ban.
   The agency has come under pressure from Congress to crack
down on the over-the-counter sale of ineffective
weight-control products. The FDA announced in May that
unproven diet-product ingredients will be taken off the
market under a rule proposal to be published this fall.
   An FDA spokeswoman said guar gum is approved for use in
such foods as cheese, salad dressings and ice cream. She said
so little is added that it doesn't pose any health risk.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   A Wonk's Memoir; a Slap-and-Tickle Novel
   ----
   By Andrew Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   These dog days of late July and early August are intern
time in Washington, that summer sub-season when the Metro
trains and watering holes are choked with peachfuzz
idealists, fresh from the campus and helplessly eager to
please, wide-eyed at the possibility of catching their first
glimpse of Teddy Kennedy or (even) Tom Foley. They are the
federal government's nerds-in-training, the policy wonks of
tomorrow, soon to be initiated into the mysteries of rural
electrification dispersal and urban development no-point
reverse loans.
   Mark Bisnow deserves to be their patron saint. For more
than a decade, from the early '70s to the late '80s, Mr.
Bisnow labored on Capitol Hill as the wonk's wonk: free of
ideology, with a capacity for work that would shame a pack
mule, fiercely protective of his boss's interests and
unendingly loyal until a better job came along. Most
essential, he was incapable of boredom, and it is this gift
above all others that he displays in his memoir, "In the
Shadow of the Dome: Chronicles of a Capitol Hill Aide"
(Morrow, 319 pages, $20.95).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bisnow began his career as an aide to the curiously
named Don Bonker, Honorable Member from Washington, a mostly
forgotten participant in the post-Watergate class of 1974. It
is fitting that Mr. Bisnow entered Congress in the company of
these public servants, for the reforms they instituted --
among others, gutting the seniority system and seeding a
marvelous exfoliation of subcommittees, joint committees and
sub-subcommittees -- led to a diffusion of power that made
policy wonks indispensable to the increasingly impenetrable
machinery of the legislative branch.
   At the same time, the post-Watergate reforms effectively
destroyed Congress as an institution capable of serving any
but the most parochial interest, but this seems to bother Mr.
Bisnow not at all. He exploited the era of wonk ascendancy by
bouncing from job to job, following up the Hon. Bonker with
John Heinz, Republican senator from Pennsylvania and classic
congressional meat puppet: handsome as a movie star, rich as
Croesus, and utterly untroubled by thought. Thence to the
presidential wannabe John Andersen, and finally, in the end,
at last, to the big time: Bob Dole.
   Any book that climaxes with the appearance of Bob Dole
suffers from serious literary deficiencies. This is partly
Mr. Bisnow's fault: His gentlemanly circumspection tends to
blur all his bosses in a soup of geniality, making each one
as improbably admirable as the boss before him. But mostly it
has to do with the Washington life Mr. Bisnow chronicles.
   For the sad truth is that wonk enthusiasm isn't contagious
-- otherwise, of course, everybody would move to Washington
-- and Mr. Bisnow's attempts to give his memoir spirit and
suspense and literary shape are doomed to fail. Why did Sen.
Max Baucus want to bring lamb products under the provisions
of the Meat Import Act? Will the ammonia-fertilizer lobby
succeed in limiting the principle of de facto specificity in
determining the countervailability of traded subsidies?
   This is not the stuff of breathless anticipation, but it
captures precisely the tenor of life as we Washingtonians
live it. In our dreams, of course, it is a city of high
drama, of personalities possessing fathomless depth and
fascination, of Georgetown salons humid with world-shaking
badinage.
   In our dreams, and in our novels. David Levy's "Potomac
Jungle" (Knightsbridge, 397 pages, $19.95) portrays
Washington as a city in which boredom -- particularly the
kind of meat-and-taters drudgery of wonk life -- is not only
unknown but impossible. There simply isn't time. Mr. Levy's
hero is a wily and handsome vice president who has an affair
with a beautiful network anchor, who later marries the deeply
principled president, whose son is having an affair with the
chief justice's daughter, whose brother is having (yes) an
affair with a Hollywood starlet, who (bringing this chain
full circle) also is having an affair with the handsome and
wily vice president.
   For all the panting, remarkably little happens in "Potomac
Jungle" until one of the characters drowns in the Tidal
Basin. A slight flurry of activity ensues, but then things
quickly die down again under the dead hand of Mr. Levy's
narrative technique, which consists almost entirely of
melodramatic cross-cutting among scenes that possess no
intrinsic interest. (The climax of the story occurs while the
central character is watching television.)
   Mr. Levy probably hoped that the Washington setting alone
would be sufficient to endow his story with drama and import.
This is the mistake that Mr. Bisnow also makes, but it's an
especially crippling error for Washington novelists, who have
yet to learn that banal dialogue is no less banal for having
been spoken in the Oval Office. All a Washington setting can
do for a novel is render certain events more improbable. Any
Washingtonian knows that a vice president worthy of the
office would much rather huddle with a wonk over the
countervailability of trade subsidies than play
slap-and-tickle with a Hollywood starlet.
   It's just the way we are.
   ---
   Mr. Ferguson is an editorial writer for the Scripps Howard
News Service.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bay View Capital
   Withdraws Offering,
   Cited Poor Market
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BVFS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN MATEO, Calif. -- Bay View Capital Corp. said it
withdrew a planned offering of $31.3 million of convertible
preferred stock, citing the poor market for
financial-institution stocks.
   Bay View joins a growing list of thrifts who have scrapped
equity offerings because the market wasn't much interested.
Coast Savings Financial Inc. recently gave up on a
$150-million offering of preferred shares for the same
reasons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The market's disinterest in S&amp;Ls' equity is making it all
the more difficult for the scores of undercapitalized thrifts
to raise equity and meet the new, tougher capital
requirements that took effect in December. Failure to meet
those new standards can lead to regulators' sanctions, which
can include being put out of business. Bay View said it
already meets all of the new thrift-capital requirements.
   Separately, Bay View said it adopted a common-stock rights
offering plan to "deter abusive takeover tactics." The thrift
said the plan isn't in response to any specific takeover
threat. Such so-called "poison pill" plans are designed to
discourage unwanted takeover bids by making them much more
expensive.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hunter Environmental
   To Acquire Remainder
   Of Hunter Industrial
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HESI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOUTHPORT, Conn. -- Hunter Environmental Services Inc.
said it reached an agreement with investor J. Anthony
Forstmann to acquire the remainder of Hunter Industrial
Facilities Inc., which is developing an underground
waste-processing plant in Texas.
   Currently, Hunter Environmental owns 63% and Mr. Forstmann
26% of Hunter Industrial. The rest is in public hands.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hunter Environmental's principal assets are its Hunter
Industrial holdings and an interest in an Illinois utility
holding company. The merger with Hunter Industrial, a
spokesman said, will make "a more efficient company."
   Hunter Environmental will issue one common share for each
2.75 shares of Hunter Industrial's common and preferred that
it doesn't already own. To acquire all of Hunter Industrial,
the company will issue a total of 4.3 million shares,
reflecting conversion of certain debt securities to common
stock.
   In national over-the-counter trading Friday, Hunter
Environmental Service's stock closed at $4, unchanged. Hunter
Industrial trades over the counter on the pink sheets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Cuomo vs. a Tax
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   New York Gov. Mario Cuomo finally met a higher tax he
didn't like. Last week, he was part of a press conference to
blast the idea of limiting the deductibility of state taxes
on the federal form. This would chiefly affect taxpayers in
the states with the highest local and state taxes. As the
table nearby shows (see related story: "GOP Tax Targets --
State by State" -- WSJ July 30, 1990), New York tops this
list. Gov. Cuomo prefers a rise in federal income tax rates
for the wealthy. "Raise their taxes," he said. "It hurts
nobody." New York Mayor David Dinkins defended deductibility
to keep the federal government "a passive indirect partner
and an unwilling partner to boot" in the city. We can see why
the governor and mayor want taxpayers in other states to
subsidize high-tax states, but maybe we could have a national
referendum on the question.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Lloyds Bank PLC:
   Six-Month Pretax Earnings
   Rose Sharply From '89 Pace
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.LLO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lloyds Bank PLC posted first-half pretax profit of #408
million ($740 million), nearly five times that of the
year-earlier period, when profit was curbed by extensive
Third World loan provisions.
   Pretax profit for first half of 1989 was #93 million,
largely reflecting the British bank's #483 million charge to
cover loans to less developed countries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the latest half, Lloyds reduced such charges to #66
million. The latest charges, the bank said, were used to
cover unpaid interest on loans, primarily to Brazil and
Argentina.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Texas Instruments Inc.
   Wins Navy Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   TXN MD GMH GM G.DAI UTX HAL
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Texas Instruments Inc. received a $58.8
million Navy contract for anti-radiation missiles.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   McDonnell Douglas Corp. won a $42.4 million Navy contract
for Harpoon missile equipment.
                                                                                                       

   Hughes Aircraft Co., a unit of General Motors Corp., was
awarded a $15.4 million Army contract for radar equipment.
                                                                                                       

   Freightliner Corp., a unit of Daimler Benz of North
America Holding Co., received a $14.4 million Army contract
for truck tractors.
                                                                                                       

   United Technologies Corp. got a $14.2 million Army
contract for UH-60 helicopters.
                                                                                                       

   Brown &amp; Root Services Corp., a unit of Halliburton Co.,
received a $10.2 million Air Force contract for space-launch
services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Peterborough, N.H.,
   Site of `Our Town,'
   Still Resists Change
   ---
   Japanese Efficiency Comes
   To the Ball-Bearing Plant;
   Some Folks Aren't Happy
   ----
   By Ron Suskind
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MIN
</CO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   PETERBOROUGH, N.H. -- You can smell the bacon, 10 pounds
of it, cooking at Nonie's Bakery and Luncheonette. Well,
there's Paul Hobbs, the jeweler, stealing a kiss from Brenda
Lively as she slides his muffin and coffee across the
counter. Across Grove Street, Reggie Whiting, the town clerk,
is settling behind her typewriter for another day of deeds,
birth certificates and gossip.
   And down the street, past American Legion Post No. 5,
workers are arriving for the morning shift at the town's
largest employer -- New Hampshire Ball Bearings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This is the town you may know as Our Town, the model for
the New England village romanticized in Thornton Wilder's
famous play. But, the way some local folk see it,
Peterborough may be turning into Their Town.
   Among those arriving for work at the ball-bearing plant
today is Shinichiro Ozaki. He's the director of manufacturing
and efficiency expert. He came here after Tokyo-based Minebea
Co. bought the ball-bearing company a few years ago. And more
efficient it has become.
   There no longer are stools or desks on the plant floor,
and, thereby, no temptation to take a break. Walking the
floor are four young Japanese managers, checking on machines
and workers. Production timers catch equipment operating
below capacity. Already, scores of the plant's original 625
workers have been laid off.
   "The company used to be a family, where you felt good
about working hard and where they cared for you," says one
laid-off worker, who along with others had to sign a pledge
to keep quiet as part of his severance agreement. "Now, they
want us to work like animals."
   Today, a Japanese flag often flies above the plant
alongside the stars and stripes, a symbol of happy
coexistence that rankles local residents and doesn't much
reflect the truth of the matter. An ingrained wariness of
outsiders -- of any stripe -- colors attitudes in this small
town of 5,100, often to the point that even positive changes
at the plant are viewed with suspicion. Minebea, for its
part, hasn't helped matters: Unlike many Japanese companies
doing business in the U.S., it tends to be oblivious to the
sensitivities of its new work force.
   "We're not teaching them new ways, we're teaching the
basics," insists Mr. Ozaki. "Twenty years ago U.S.
manufacturing was the best in the world. We're just teaching
now what we learned from you years ago."
   Adds Michael Samide, an American and a longtime veteran of
Rockwell International whom Minebea made president of the
company last year: "Look, I don't really care about the
townspeople -- I have a business to run." Productivity is up
45%, revenues are expected to hit $100 million for this
fiscal year -- up 33% over last year -- and, no, he hasn't
read Our Town, though his wife bought it for him two years
ago. "If the Japanese had read Our Town, they might not have
come here," grumbles Mr. Samide. Townspeople "want to know
everything about everybody. They're busybodies."
   And proud of it. Thornton Wilder's portrait of a town
where a dog can sleep undisturbed in the middle of Main
Street and sharing an ice-cream soda at the drugstore is one
step from a marriage proposal, is, for the most part,
fanciful nostalgia. Basking in the legacy of Our Town,
however, Peterborough boasts an extra measure of curmudgeonly
self-reliance.
   "The biggest thing we've lost in Peterborough is a sense
of control," says town historian Ellen Derby, whose family
department store -- called Derby's -- closed a few years ago
because it couldn't compete with larger chains in nearby
towns. "Our town is not any longer a world unto itself, just
part of a bigger world."
   Paul Hobbs, looking up from his ledger book at Hobbs
Jewelers, recalls, mistily, how he walked down Grove street
on his first day in town. "Some fella tipped his hat and said
`Hello.' Just like that. I said to myself, I've come to the
right place, a real friendly town. But, you know, some folks
still mention that I wasn't born in Peterborough. And I've
been here since 1964."
   Some of the town's fondest memories are reserved for New
Hampshire Ball Bearings, which opened for business in 1946.
Company founder Arthur "Bud" Daniels, a former Navy
commander, contributed heavily to the community, and would
often extend no-interest loans to employees in financial
distress. A generous profit-sharing allotment -- up to eight
weeks pay -- was doled out each July.
   By 1972, New Hampshire Ball Bearings was one of the
country's largest manufacturers of miniature ball bearings,
used mostly in military equipment. Minebea was its biggest
rival, and a potential buyer even then.
   "Takami Takahashi {then Minebea's chairman} was invited
here, and Mr. Daniels took him on a tour and said, `We're
strong, successful and we're here to stay," recalls company
spokesman Jim Abercrombie. "He basically said, `Sell? Over my
dead body.'"
   Mr. Daniels died in 1982.
   Shortly thereafter, Minebea made an offer, and it acquired
the company in 1985. The first few years of foreign ownership
were gentle and gracious -- an effort to somehow blend
Japanese methods with the sleepy rhythms of the town. But the
grace period ended this year with a flurry of firings --
which, in many cases, affected older workers.
   "It's not a case where we weren't doing our jobs, and
doing them well," contends 50-year-old Bill McGinnis, a
quality-control supervisor who was laid off in February after
31 years. "To the Japanese we're just numbers on a budget
sheet. There's a lot of resentment the guys feel toward the
Japanese."
   Nowadays, if you call to the receptionist and ask if this
is the company that was bought by the Japanese, she replies
curtly, "March 5, 1985." That's all.
   Those still on the shop floor are cautious in expressing
their ambivalence. "We're certainly busier than we used to
be," Bob Crowley, a 10-year veteran, yells over a grinder.
"With less people, we've got to work harder. The world's
gotten smaller, more competitive, and we've got to respond.
That doesn't mean we've given up. I'd say Our Town is still
ours."
   "But we don't know what `ours' means anymore," Fred Ells,
a 14-year veteran, shouts from an adjoining machine. Nearby,
a worker asks Mr. Ozaki if he is planning to take a vacation
this summer. "No vacation this year," says Mr. Ozaki as he
strides toward several Japanese managers in an aisle between
machines.
   Mr. Ozaki, 34, and his four resident Japanese managers
live in various stages of isolation -- and none has chosen to
live in Peterborough. Three live together in housing above a
company plant in nearby Jaffrey, and they say they don't get
out much. Tomoyuki Takemura, 26, says he drives through
Peterborough on occasion, but rarely gets out of his car.
Another Japanese manager adds that he is sometimes harassed
by residents, but is working on his English and hopes to
improve his contacts with Americans.
   Mr. Ozaki says cautiously that the company's old style of
manufacturing was comfortable, but eons behind major
competitors in Japan and Sweden. "{They} were like a frog in
a small pond," he says. "They couldn't see the wider ocean.
Which is what we show them."
   It is a show that doesn't play well on Grove Street.
"They're all very profit conscious, more interested in their
plant and what it produces than how it affects the
community," says town selectman Stanley Peters. At the
Peterborough Shoe Store, owner Bob Borsari is in a lather
over the Japanese, and the fact that "America has lost its
way in blind materialism." Just as the diatribe reaches its
peak, and Mr. Borsari is angrily recounting where he was when
Japan bombed Pearl Harbor, Noel LaFortune, longtime manager
of Roy's Market, pokes his head in and asks, "If we have 30
Knights and 20 Masons, how many lobsters do we need?" Soon,
the two are huddling, coming to terms with the great issues
of the upcoming Second Annual Masonic-Knight Cookout, and the
storm has passed.
   James Lenane, a Peterborough town manager, sees a subtext
in all of this. "It's no secret that the whole New England
economy is in bad shape -- there are layoffs everywhere. But
people in this town need someone to blame," he reasons, "so
they blame the Japanese. The Japanese have to make their
money from the plant. They bought it, invested in it -- it's
their right to make a profit."
   Nearby, in a booth at Nonie's Bakery and Luncheonette,
Bill McGinnis, the laidoff quality control supervisor, is
philosophical, and talks about how the town "just keeps on,
no matter what." Soon he's chatting about the famous
graveyard scene at the end of Our Town, in which the souls of
Grover's Corners gather to talk about how the living are so
busy worrying about trivial matters, that they fail to
appreciate life. "I think, because of the play and all,
people got that message strong here," he says. "They
appreciate the small things that give life value."
   "So Bill," Wilder's omniscient Stage Manager might now
ask, "is it Our Town or their town?"
   "Well, the Japanese might just about own this town," he
says, waxing dramatic about the graveyard scene. "But, no,
they'll never own our souls."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Armco Conditionally
   Sets Quarterly Payout
   On Common Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARSIPPANY, N.J. -- Armco Inc. said directors declared a
quarterly dividend of 10 cents a common share, conditional
upon approval by noteholders.
   Because of the $85.1 million second-quarter loss it
reported last week, the steel products concern must obtain an
amendment to the indenture covering the 13.5% senior notes
due 1994 before it can pay a dividend on common. The company
has been paying 10 cents a share quarterly, with the most
recent payment June 4.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Armco proposes to make a tender offer for as much as 30%
of the $164 million of notes outstanding at a price of $1,070
plus accrued interest for each $1,000 principal amount. The
price is based on bids for the notes in over-the-counter
trading last Thursday, the company said.
   Payment and record dates for the dividend will be based on
the date on which consents from noteholders are obtained,
Armco said. If the company can't obtain consents from holders
of a majority of the notes, no dividend will be paid.
   Armco also declared regular quarterly dividends of 52.5
cents a share on $2.10 cumulative convertible Class A
preferred, payable Sept. 28 to shares of record Aug. 31, and
$1.125 a share on $4.50 cumulative convertible preferred,
payable Oct. 1 to stock of record Aug. 31.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Bank's IFC Unit
   To Join Lending Group
   For Colombia Project
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM EUROP F.SGF G.DBK F.BNP F.CLC N.ABN
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The International Finance Corp., a World
Bank affiliate, said it will join with a group of European
banks in providing a $70 million loan for a $321 million
crude-oil pipeline project in Colombia.
   The IFC will provide half the loan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The borrower, Oleoducto de Colombia, will operate a
295-mile pipeline to transport crude oil from oil fields in
the Llanos and Magdalena Valley regions to a coastal
terminal.
   The IFC said the project will have an initial capacity to
move 150,000 barrels a day. The capacity may be increased
later.
   Other financing will include about $100 million in equity
capital from the owners of the pipeline venture and export
credits from Argentina, Brazil, France and the U.S.
   The European banks participating in the IFC-arranged
financing include Societe Generale of France; Deutsche Bank
Luxembourg, a subsidiary of Deutsche Bank AG of West Germany;
Banque Francaise du Commerce Exterieur; ABN Bank; Banque
Nationale de Paris; Credit Lyonnais; and Banque Sudameris.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   R.R. Donnelley &amp; Sons Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS DNY
</CO>
<LP>
   R.R. DONNELLEY &amp; SONS Co. (Chicago) -- James R. Donnelley,
55 year-old former president of the company's corporate
development group, was named vice chairman of this printing
concern, succeeding Charles C. Haffner III, 62, who is
retiring. Mr. Donnelley is the great-grandson of company
founder Richard Robert Donnelley.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Flagship Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FLGF
</CO>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Flagship Financial Corp. said it added
$1.5 million to its loan-loss provision for the second
quarter. As of March 31, the thrift's provision had a balance
of $2.1 million.
   Management said it anticipates the provision will result
in a second-quarter loss of about $260,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The thrift, which operates units First American Savings
and Brandywine Savings Bank, underwent a recent review by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Asian Connection
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ministers of 12 Pacific Rim nations gather in Singapore
today to talk about ways of fostering economic cooperation,
in the second meeting of the new Asia Pacific Economic
Cooperation forum, founded in Canberra in November. The
gathering serves as a reminder of how greatly Pacific Asia
already has benefited from its increasing integration into
the world economy, and what it now must do to keep up the
pace.
   APEC's member nations make up almost the full roster of
countries that have directly produced what's come to be known
these past 15 years or so as the the Asian economic miracle.
There are the six Asean nations -- Brunei, Indonesia, the
Philippines, Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore -- as well as
the U.S., Japan, Canada, New Zealand, Australia and South
Korea. Hong Kong and Taiwan have been excluded so far, due to
the more sordid side of China diplomacy. Their admission to
APEC, along with Communist China's, will be considered at the
current meeting. Add them in, and you have the list of
economies whose achievements just a few years back had many
people looking ahead to "the Pacific Century."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It no doubt will be on the minds of the ministers today,
however, that the Pacific superstars have hit some rough
patches lately. The region is feeling the chill of China's
retreat last year into another Marxist ice age. The future of
Hong Kong is much in doubt. Just 10 years before the Pacific
Century is supposed to take off, there are places such as
Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia that have yet to shake off
restrictions not solely on trade in tangible goods, but on
the political liberties necessary to the free flow of
information and ideas.
   Progress cannot be divided neatly into economic and
political compartments, of course. But they both are part of
a process that, with a bit of institutional encouragement,
tends to fuel itself. Some of Asia's biggest exporters, for
example, have ended up with so much buying power abroad that
their governments have found it simply too difficult and
unpopular to continue keeping imports out. Shop in the
grocery stores of Japan these days and you'll find Swiss
chocolates; Taiwan's reserves have brought its people not
only increased security, but access to such goods as imported
peanut butter.
   Especially in modern economies, information is one of the
most crucial commodities. That's why nations like South
Korean and Taiwan have felt they needed more open
communications and more open politics. Today, for example,
some investors see the charms of Singapore's well-kept port
and industrious people, but hesitate over its politics, in
which Prime Minister Lee does not even trust his own
countrymen to make their own judgments about the contents of
this newspaper. Over time, we'd guess that countries such as
Singapore and Malaysia will find it in their interest to shed
the political restrictions that can only hamper their move
into an increasingly integrated world.
   To keep Asia on track for the Pacific Century will take
leaders clued in to the ways of the modern, deeply
interconnected world. This is where APEC may be able to help.
It was founded with the aim of finding ways for government
institutions to catch up with the private-sector commerce
that is fast outgrowing the niceties of national boundaries.
If the APEC nations can, as U.S. Assistant Secretary of State
Richard Solomon suggested in an advance press briefing for
the conference, "do as much as we can to keep our markets
open," their economies will prosper, political freedom will
follow, and the Pacific nations can secure their promise for
the coming century.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   LDDSA STXL
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japan Emerging Equity Fund Inc., initial offering of five
million common shares, via Daiwa Securities America Inc. and
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

   LDDS Communications Inc., offering of $50 million of
convertible subordinated debentures and 1.4 million common
shares, of which 98,728 shares are being sold by the company
and 1,301,272 shares by a holder.
                                                                                                       

   Matrix Service Co., proposed initial offering of 3.25
million common shares, of which 2,750,000 are being offered
by the company and 500,000 by holders, via PaineWebber Inc.,
Robertson, Stephens &amp; Co. and First Analysis Securities Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Sports-Tech International Inc., offering of one million
units, each consisting of one common share and one four-year
warrant to acquire one-half common share of the company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   BAR GRGI INT LAM OFP SGF BEMC COHO IKOS TRMB ORX
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange announced seven
new listings, the American Stock Exchange one, and the
National Market System of the over-the-counter market three.
Seven of the new listings are initial public offerings.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   On the Big Board, Banner Aerospace Inc., a Cleveland
distributor of replacement parts for the aviation industry,
began trading as an initial public offering Friday under BAR.
                                                                                                       

   Greenery Rehabilitation Group Inc., a Newton, Mass.,
provider of rehabilitation services to patients with brain
injuries, previously traded over-the-counter, will begin
trading Friday under the symbol GRG.
                                                                                                       

   International Recovery Corp., a Miami Springs, Fla., waste
management and oil recycling company, previously traded on
the Amex, begins trading today under INT.
                                                                                                       

   Latin America Investment Fund Inc., a New York investment
company, began trading last Wednesday as an initial public
offering under LAM.
                                                                                                       

   Offshore Pipelines Inc., Houston, a marine construction
service for offshore oil and gas companies, began trading
Wednesday as an initial public offering under OFP.
                                                                                                       

   Patriot Select Dividend Trust, a Boston investment
company, began trading last Tuesday under DIV.
                                                                                                       

   Singapore Fund Inc., a New York investment company, began
trading Wednesday as an initial public offering under SGF.
                                                                                                       

   Joining the Amex, Belmac Corp., a Tampa, Fla.,
pharmaceutical research and development company, previously
traded on the over-the-counter market, begins trading
tomorrow under BLM.
                                                                                                       

   On the OTC market, Coho Resources Inc., Dallas, a
subsidiary of Coho Canada, an oil and gas exploration
services company, began trading Thursday under COHO.
                                                                                                       

   IKOS Systems Inc., a Sunnyvale, Calif., maker of hardware
and software to simulate semiconductors and computer systems,
began trading Wednesday under IKOS.
                                                                                                       

   Trimble Navigation Ltd., a Sunnyvale, Calif., maker of
precision electronics gear for determining geographic
locations, began trading July 20 under TRMB.
                                                                                                       

   Separately, the Amex, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and
the Chicago Board Options Exchange began trading options on
the listed stock of Oryx Energy Co., a Dallas oil and gas
company, under options symbol ORX.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bertelsmann AG
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS G.BRT
</CO>
<LP>
   BERTELSMANN AG -- Arlene Friedman was named vice president
and editorial director for the Literary Guild and the
Doubleday Book Club, at Doubleday Book &amp; Music Clubs Inc.
Based in Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday Book &amp; Music Clubs is a
unit of Bertelsmann, a Guetersloh, West Germany, media
company. Effective Aug. 13, Ms. Friedman, previously senior
editor at Crown Publishers Inc., New York, succeeds Maureen
Mahon Egen, who resigned to take another post.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trail-Blazing Poles Now Begin Privatization
   ----
   By Therese Raphael
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WARSAW -- Poland is writing the first textbook on the
transition to a market economy from a communist system. On
July 13 the Poles continued to spearhead East Europe's reform
movement when the parliament passed a historic bill on
privatization of state enterprises.
   More than 7,600 state enterprises are to be handed over to
the state treasury and transformed into limited liability
corporations with shares to be sold to the public within two
years. The government is awarding every adult Pole free
"privatization bonds" exchangeable for shares in the company
of his or her choosing. Workers will be given preferential
prices (at one-half market price) for up to 20% of their
company's shares. To quell the fears of many Poles of foreign
ownership, foreigners need official permission to purchase
more than 10% of a company's shares. The transition process
will be overseen by a newly created Ministry of Ownership
Transformation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There are still many wrinkles to be ironed out. Because of
the absence of developed markets, setting a price for the
shares involves a lot of guesswork. Which illuminates the
more general conundrum: You need to have a private market in
order to get one. Nevertheless, Poland must get on with the
process even if it means windfalls for some bargain hunters.
   But even given reasonable pricing there are problems.
Andrzej Byrt, the Polish commercial counselor in Brussels,
maintains that "if you take all the financial resources in
the hands of Polish citizens, they could only purchase about
6% of all state-run companies."
   The Polish reform program has been depicted as a sort of
reckless leap into the unknown. But this ignores a central
truth. The country was on the verge of implosion, the
salvation of which required drastic and immediate measures.
The new government responded to the crisis by embracing
far-reaching measures. It set about to "import" competition
so as to rationalize the price structure and effect a
Darwinian industrial selection process. Against the advice of
many a nonbeliever, the zloty was made internally convertible
-- that is, convertible for trade transactions, but not yet
for capital transfers -- at about 9,500 zlotys to the U.S.
dollar. Trade barriers such as import quotas and excessive
tariffs were eliminated or sharply reduced. The government
sold some assets of small state enterprises to aid
entrepreneurs. Meanwhile, domestic price controls and
subsidies were abolished.
   As a result, shortages are practically non-existent,
foreign goods readily available and hyperinflation stamped
out. May's $2 billion trade surplus exceeded that for the
entire previous year.
   Many reports cite a 30% drop in production as proof of the
failure of the reform. But these figures ignore a dramatic
increase in private production -- it is estimated that 50% of
food products are now sold directly by farmers -- unaccounted
for in the statistics of socialized industry. State
production now shows signs of stabilizing, as companies that
initially reduced production and raised prices after
subsidies were withdrawn investigate ways to produce
appealing products inexpensively.
   Despite these improvements, the economy is still in a
recession and saddled with a $42 billion foreign debt. The
World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and other sources
are rapidly funneling more aid into Poland. The debt has been
rescheduled again. But while foreign aid may help
infrastructure development, too often it can relieve pressure
for painful reforms.
   International trade, needed to pull Poland to its feet,
requires a favorable climate for foreign investors. As it
stands, a foreign investor can own up to 100% of a company,
with a minimum initial investment of $50,000. Foreign
investors also have no wage restrictions and receive an
automatic three-year tax holiday, extendable up to six years
if the business is deemed vital to Poland's economic growth.
But here the clarity is blurred by complicated tax laws,
vague property statutes and an outdated commercial code
(unchanged since 1934).
   Western investors also resent Poland's restrictions on the
repatriation of profits. In an effort to prevent capital
flight, the government has limited the amount a company can
repatriate to the excess of its export revenues over its
import spending. Where there are no export revenues it may
repatriate 15% of all earnings. This is a sore point among
Western investors who resent the obstruction of free mobility
of profits.
   Potential investors also cite the need to bring the
telecommunications and banking systems up to snuff. Although
both have been deregulated and can have 100% foreign
ownership, they remain seriously inadequate. Preliminary
evidence suggests that it will take 10 years and $10 billion
to give Poland an adequate communications system.
   One thing Poland could do immediately to please foreign
investors is eliminate the wage controls imposed in January.
The controls had a certain unpleasant logic when there was
nobody to bargain with workers for wages except socialist
managers indifferent to profit and loss. The concessions they
made to their employees drained the economy, exacerbated
inflation and significantly reduced real wages. Now that a
privatization framework is being established, however, the
labor market must be freed.
   The reform program has been propelled by a rare political
consensus for parliamentary democracy and speedy integration
into Europe. Lech Walesa's oft-questioned bid for the
presidency poses no threat to Poland's progress. Quite the
contrary, his experiences at the very heart of afflicted
socialist industry, his commitment to pluralism and speedy
reform and his tremendous popular support would make him a
powerful asset to the Solidarity government.
   The real danger to political stability comes from
third-way activists who throw hurdles in front of reform by
pointing to misleading production and income statistics. At a
recent conference in Vienna, Jeffrey Sachs, the Harvard
economist who advises Solidarity, warned that claims that
real incomes have plummeted by 40% because of the reform
program are misleading. These claims are based on comparing
the nominal prices of goods in December -- when those goods
were in practice unavailable -- with their prices now that
they are freely available. The statistics do not account for
the elimination of six-hour lines for certain commodities and
the general feeling of improved living standards.
   As the largest country in Central Europe with a 38
million-strong consumer market, many acres of uncultivated
land and plenty of natural resources, Poland has much to
offer. Reform must be taken in bold strokes -- the
alternative is to go the way of the Soviet Union where reform
trickled in and the expectation of bold results goes
unfulfilled.
   Poland's challenge is therefore to stay the course. The
privatization bill was another monumental step in the right
direction. Continuing in this fashion, the unwritten chapters
of the Polish textbook will tell of the abjuration of
Poland's endemic economic deadweights and a successful
transition to a market economy.
   ---
   Miss Raphael is an editorial page intern at The Wall
Street Journal Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Nation's Governors Express Resentment
   On Issue of Underwriting Thrift Bailout
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   MOBILE, Ala. -- The nation's governors, always skeptical
of Washington, came together for their annual meeting here
with an unusually harsh and pervasive sense of resentment
toward the federal government's handling of the thrift
crisis.
   The executive committee of the National Governors'
Association approved a resolution to create a committee to
examine the causes of the S&amp;L crisis and to recommend ways to
"stop the drain on the taxpayers' money." The resolution,
which is expected to win approval by the entire group of
governors, calls for a review of the "regulatory failures
that caused this unprecedented disaster." The resolution also
asks for "decisive action" to prevent a repetition of this
crisis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Underlying the anger is a strong regional division, with
leaders of farm states expressing hostility over the prospect
of helping to underwrite the thrift bailout just a few years
after a farm-credit crisis left their states economically
devastated.
   "We didn't have any S&amp;Ls that went broke in our state, but
we led the nation in farm bankruptcies in 1986," said
Republican Gov. George Mickelson of South Dakota. "Nobody
bailed us out."
   And though the governors divided along predictable lines
over whether the entire nation should bare the burden of the
thrift bailout, there was virtually unanimous sentiment that
the S&amp;L problem was skewing priorities and diverting money.
   "We're looking at resources that we desperately need and
see them being dished out to deal with this problem -- with
no real sense that we have a tourniquet to stop the
hemorrhaging," said Democratic Gov. Richard Celeste of Ohio,
who had his own thrift crisis in the 1980s and who is a
leading voice of resentment against Washington now. "Part of
this feeling is regional sentiment, but there's a real sense
that Head Start and other programs for children and the poor
will pay for this."
   The governors acknowledge that, like many initiatives
pressed at conferences such as this, any action they take
would have little effect and in any case would be binding on
no one.
   "There is not a lot we can do as governors," said GOP Gov.
Stan Stephens of Montana. "The fate of these kinds of
resolutions is well known. Nothing much happens."
   Republican Gov. Garrey Carruthers of New Mexico dismissed
the resolution as a "feel-good" gesture, but Democratic Gov.
James Blanchard of Michigan characterized it as a "vote of no
confidence on federal action thus far."
   One of the major concerns of the governors is to have some
voice over whatever proceeds are reaped, now or in the
future, from the costly efforts to get the thrift industry
back on its feet.
   "Maybe we can generate some money that will go back and
pay for some of this," said Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas,
president of the Democratic Governors' Association. Mr.
Clinton's state, like many in the South, was hit particularly
hard by the thrift crisis. But he argues that Arkansas and
others were "just hit-and-run victims" rather than the
perpetrators of the crisis.
   That argument hasn't mollified farm-state governors, who,
despite congressional action to ease the farm credit crisis
of the 1980s, still are resentful over what they consider a
lack of national resolve over their problem.
   "This farm-state governor is madder than hell to be asked
to pay for this," GOP Gov. Terry Branstad of Iowa said of the
thrift bailout. "I don't like the idea of paying the bills
for the extravagance of people involved in the S&amp;L crisis.
We've been asked to pay the bill for people who make stupid
decisions."
   Mr. Branstad's remark stoked the issue, which other
Republicans hoped would remain under the surface and not
flare into a public disruption. But some Democrats considered
Mr. Branstad's arguments partisan in their own right. "The
Branstad comments," said Democratic Gov. Clinton, "will be
good politics in an election year in Iowa."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Faces More Selling Amid Signs
   Of Slow Growth, Expectations of Easing
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch and Alison Woods
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Further losses are in store for the stumbling
dollar, currency analysts say.
   With the U.S. economy creeping along like a turtle and
increasing expectations of further easing by the Federal
Reserve, odds for a let-up in dollar selling are seen as
slim.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The bearish sentiment about the dollar is still there,"
says Sandra Antonello, a currency analyst at Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc. in Chicago.
   Sellers pounced on the dollar Friday because of the
unexpectedly weak U.S. gross national product data reported
for the second quarter. At the close of trading in New York,
the dollar was quoted at 1.6120 marks and 149.15 yen, down
from 1.6245 marks and 150.37 yen late Thursday. Sterling rose
to $1.8375 from $1.8140.
   In Tokyo Monday, the dollar was trading at 149.05 yen at
mid-morning; it closed at 150.75 yen in Tokyo Friday.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about 1.6113
marks, down from Tokyo's Friday close of 1.6235 marks.
   The dollar is getting close to the post-World War II low
of 1.5630 marks that was set Jan. 4, 1988. Against the yen,
however, it is far above the record low of 120.25 yen hit
that day.
   Largely because of renewed weakness in Japan's stock and
bond markets and the Bank of Japan's reluctance to raise its
5.25% discount rate, the dollar's recent losses against the
yen have been less than those against western European
currencies.
   GNP expanded at an inflation-adjusted annual rate of 1.2%
in the second quarter, after growing at a 1.7% pace in the
first quarter, much slower than the 1.8% expected by many
traders.
   The government reported nearly every major indicator of
private economic activity declined, and only a buildup of
business inventories and a rise in government spending kept
the overall economy from contracting during the period.
   Commerce Undersecretary Michael Darby said he expects the
economy to strengthen now that the Federal Reserve has
loosened credit. "We expect a rebound in economic activity in
the second half of the year, especially in the fourth
quarter," he said.
   But some economists aren't as upbeat as Mr. Darby,
particularly with growth in the U.S. -- even if it
rejuvenates -- likely to pale in comparison with that in West
Germany and Japan.
   The latest GNP report "gives us more of a picture of a
weakening trend in economic growth than might have been
supposed," says Kevin Logan, chief economist at the Swiss
Bank Corp.
   Sluggishness in construction will probably put "a drag on
GNP in the third quarter," Mr. Logan says. Construction was
lively in the first quarter because of the unusually mild
winter and helped spur economic growth.
   Any evidence of economic weakness tends to take a toll on
the dollar because of expectations for further easing by the
Federal Reserve. Lower U.S. interest rates could undercut the
dollar by making interest-bearing dollar-denominated
investments less attractive and by lowering yields on
Eurodollar deposits in the Eurocurrency market.
   The Federal Reserve loosened credit July 13, a day after
Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said the central bank was poised
to ease to "offset" an undesired rise in bank-loan rates.
   When Mr. Greenspan later hinted that further easing may be
ahead, he indicated the central bank would most likely move
in response to continued banking system strains or agreement
on a solid plan to trim the federal budget deficit. However,
he also said he now sees the risk of recession as "a shade
larger" than the risk of a rise in inflation.
   Given all these factors, there is the potential for the
Fed to let the federal funds rate fall substantially,
economists say.
   The federal funds rate, the rate on reserves traded among
commercial banks overnight, now averages 8%. The steering of
the federal funds rate is the U.S. central bank's primary
monetary policy tool.
   "We could see, by the end of the year, another {half a
percentage point} reduction in fed funds," says Mr. Logan of
Swiss Bank.
   Bearish sentiment toward the dollar is running high
because U.S. interest rates are declining while rates in West
Germany, Japan and other major industrial nations are
expected to remain firm.
   Mr. Logan sees the dollar falling to 1.57 marks by the end
of September.
   Says Earl Johnson, foreign exchange adviser at Harris
Trust &amp; Savings Bank in Chicago: "The dollar's not attractive
to global investors right now. Interest rates rule the
foreign exchange markets these days. The market is focusing
on high-yielding currencies."
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday, gold for
current delivery settled at $367.80 an ounce, down $1.50.
Estimated volume was a moderate 4.5 million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Monday, gold was quoted at
$368.25 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Machine Tool
   Orders in June
   Staged Rebound
   ---
   Total Was 9.1% Above '89;
   Quarterly Figure Rose
   10% From Year Earlier
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Machine tool orders placed with U.S. producers rebounded
in June from weak May levels and were 9.1% above June 1989,
as durable-goods makers continue to buy machinery to improve
their productivity.
   U.S. machine tool plants received $262.7 million of orders
last month, up from $240.7 million a year earlier, according
to NMTBA -- The Association for Manufacturing Technology, a
McLean, Va., trade group. May bookings had dropped to $206.5
million, but industry executives said then that underlying
demand appeared to be stronger than that figure indicated.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the second quarter, orders were up 10% from a year
earlier and 15% from the first period, according to NMTBA
figures.
   Machine tool distributors, who sell imported as well as
domestic machines, had an 11% order decline in June from a
year earlier, according to the American Machine Tool
Distributors' Association in Rockville, Md. However,
distributor orders this year have bounced around from month
to month. As May orders were unusually high, it's unlikely
that the June drop is the start of a basic trend.
   "Spending on machine tools is still strong," said Robert
A. Gale, AMTDA president. However, demand varies widely among
industry groups and geographic regions, he said.
   Machine tools are sophisticated partsmaking machines,
including machining centers, lathes and metal-forming
presses, and are bought mainly by factories that produce
autos, aircraft, machinery and other durable goods.
   Producers of commercial aircraft and machinery have been
major purchasers this year, but a range of other
manufacturers are ordering also. One Midwestern producer, for
instance, reports that it recently received sizable orders
from makers of air-conditioning compressors.
   Machine tool orders have slowed in July, some producers
report, but they note that July normally is a weak month for
the industry. Many machine tool plants close for two weeks of
vacation in July, as do the factories of some customers. Even
at plants that don't close, many executives take vacations
and decisions on orders aren't made.
   Orders have slowed for both lathes and machining centers,
says Robert J. Siewert, president and chief executive officer
of Monarch Machine Tool Co., Sidney, Ohio. "We're hoping it's
only temporary, but we'll have to wait a while to find out."
   Machine tool makers that depend heavily on the auto
industry report that automotive spending programs are being
deferred, but few are being canceled. The auto makers
reported sharply lower second-quarter profits, mainly because
of lower volume. Uncertainty about which models to produce in
light of tightening government regulations on air pollution
and fuel economy is another reason for delay.
   Impending labor negotiations in the auto industry also
have contributed to the uncertainty. Auto makers don't want
to buy a lot of machinery just before a strike.
   Furthermore, the auto companies will use the promise of
additional investment as a lever in local plant bargaining,
says one machinery producer. Local union officers will be
told that the plant that is the most accommodating on work
rules and other local issues will have the best chance to get
new equipment and the production jobs that go with it.
   "Automotive orders have been weak lately, but quoting
activity is very high," says one machine tool executive who
sells mainly to the auto industry. "We aren't extremely
concerned," he says, because there appears to be a lot of
business to be placed once labor contracts are signed.
   The auto makers are ordering some machinery, of course.
Masco Machine Inc., Cleveland, says its orders are running
about the same as a year ago, with demand for both Masco's
specialized flexible machining systems and its precision
finishing equipment holding up well. "This is unique
equipment used for automatic transmissions and other
automotive parts," says John W. Fedor, president, adding that
General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. all
have placed orders recently.
   June orders for lathes, grinders, milling machines,
machining centers, boring mills and other machines to shape
metal by cutting were $186 million, the NMTBA said, up 17%
from $158.9 million a year earlier. They jumped 35% from
May's poor total of $137.8 million.
   Domestic producers of metal-forming presses and other
machines to shape metal with pressure received $76.7 million
of orders in June, which was down 6.4% from $81.9 million a
year earlier but 12% higher than May's $68.7 million.
   Machine tool shipments by U.S. plants totaled $350.2
million last month, up 6.9% from $327.6 million a year
earlier, the NMTBA said. The industry's backlog of unfilled
orders at the end of June totaled $1.56 billion, the NMTBA
said, down 14% from the first of the year.
   ---

                                                                                                       

    Comparative new orders for metal-cutting machines:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic ........... $148,600,000 $116,800,000 $123,050,000
 Foreign ............   37,400,000   21,000,000   35,800,000
   Total ............  186,000,000  137,800,000  158,850,000
                                                                                                       

   Six month total for 1990: $986,100,000; for 1989:
$1,062,100,000.
                                                                                                       

               Metal-forming machine orders:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic ...........  $69,900,000  $64,500,000  $72,850,000
 Foreign ............    6,750,000    4,150,000    9,000,000
   Total ............   76,650,000   68,650,000   81,850,000
                                                                                                       

   Six month total for 1990: $433,950,000; for 1989:
$429,700,000.
                                                                                                       

      Comparative shipment of metal-cutting machines:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic ........... $240,050,000 $172,300,000 $199,950,000
 Foreign ............   35,600,000   21,850,000   35,750,000
   Total ............  275,650,000  194,150,000  235,700,000
                                                                                                       

   Six month total for 1990: $1,184,600,000; for 1989:
$1,059,700,000.
                                                                                                       

             Metal-forming machine shipments:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic ...........  $70,085,000  $71,000,000  $70,100,000
 Foreign ............    3,700,000    7,800,000   21,750,000
   Total ............   74,550,000   78,800,000   91,850,000
                                                                                                       

   Six month total for 1990: $479,900,000; for 1989:
$445,800,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business World
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   George Melloan is on vacation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GNP Commodities
   To Move Accounts
   To British Firm
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- GNP Commodities Inc., facing expulsion from the
futures industry, is transferring its customer accounts and
employees to a British futures firm and plans to cease
operation.
   GNP and its chairman, former Chicago Mercantile Exchange
Chairman Brian P. Monieson, were ordered banned from the
industry in May by an administrative law judge at the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Though the expulsion is
on hold while he and the firm appeal the ruling to the CFTC
commissioners, some GNP customers had been taking their
business elsewhere and others were uneasy with the situation,
Mr. Monieson said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The CFTC case against Mr. Monieson and GNP, both accused
of failing to control allegedly renegade commodities
salesmen, could be a watershed in futures regulation. The
CFTC has, in effect, shown that it can put out of business a
powerful industry insider over the alleged wrongdoing of some
brokers working for him.
   In recent months, other futures clearing firms have been
reducing or getting out of their so-called introducing broker
sales business because of the fear that they too could be
severely sanctioned for the actions of far-off salesmen. Such
sales offices often operate independently of their clearing
firm.
   Dennis Klejna, CFTC enforcement chief, declined to comment
on the case other than to say that the agency will pursue the
expulsions against GNP and Mr. Monieson regardless of the
transfer of business.
   The transfer of the accounts and GNP's 110 employees to
E.D.&amp; F. Man International Futures Inc., London, was agreed
to late Thursday night and is to become final this morning,
Mr. Monieson said.
   GNP will become an inactive futures clearing firm. Mr.
Monieson said he will devote his time to the appeal of the
expulsion order, and to his personal trading.
   He wouldn't disclose terms for the transfer of GNP's
accounts, which included some big institutional traders and
exchange-floor traders as well. None of GNP's liabilities,
which include the CFTC case and some civil litigation against
the firm, was assumed by E.D.&amp; F. Man. Before the CFTC
enforcement case became publicly known, Mr. Monieson had been
close to selling GNP for as much as $40 million.
   E.D.&amp; F. Man International is a subsidiary of E.D.&amp; F. Man
Ltd., a closely held trading and money-management firm based
in London.
   The CFTC administrative law judge, George H. Painter,
specifically found that, after being warned by other GNP
employees, Mr. Monieson failed to promptly stop some salesmen
from bilking customers. The salesmen, one of them a close
friend of Mr. Monieson, were accused of so-called trade
allocation -- initiating trades without the required customer
account number and then keeping the winning trades for
themselves and stuffing the losers in customer accounts.
   The two brokers, Norman Furlett and Ira P. Greenspon, were
also ordered banned from the futures business and fined
$75,000 each. They denied the charges. Mr. Monieson and GNP
were fined $500,000 each. Mr. Monieson denied knowing about
the alleged abuses and said "no firm could survive" the
supervision standard he was being held to.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Golden Goose:
   Forces It Unleashed
   Now Threaten Future
   Of Anglo American
   ---
   South African Giant Opposed
   Apartheid but Is Hated
   As Rich, White Capitalist
   ---
   Sitting With Nelson Mandela
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC ANGLY DBRSY
</CO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CARLETONVILLE, South Africa -- The metal door clangs shut
and the huge iron cage, packed with miners, begins a journey
to the center of the Earth.
   Down and down it plummets into the Western Deep gold mine,
slicing through the dark at 30 miles per hour. Ears pop. Air
rushes by. After a mile and a half, the cage shimmies to a
stop. The door clangs open and the miners step out into a
honeycomb of damp and narrow tunnels. Surely, if there is one
place where Anglo American Corp., South Africa's mining
colossus and corporate anti-apartheid crusader, can take
refuge from the hurricane of change buffeting its empire
above, this is it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But even here, at the bottom of one of the deepest holes
in the world, there is no escape. "Viva ANC," proclaims a
splash of red grafitti spray-painted on a jagged rock wall by
a miner hailing the African National Congress, the recently
unbanned black liberation movement. Elsewhere, someone has
painted "AWB," the initials of the Afrikaner
Weerstandsbeweging, a white supremacist group.
   "Politics has no place down here," growls Humphrey Hobday,
the mine manager at Western Deep's south shaft. His work
these days is consumed by efforts to keep the political
emotions of his miners from clashing underground. He switches
on the lamp attached to his hard hat and crawls down a tunnel
to where a team of miners -- black and white, ANC and AWB --
are blasting away at a vein of gold. The shift boss reports
they are approaching a monthly production record. Mr. Hobday
beams; business, for now, prevails.
   "The survival of the industry should be more important
than any political beliefs," he says. "We can't afford to be
saving the country down here."
   Here is an irony richer than any chunk of gold: Anglo
American, which has sought to save South Africa from
apartheid, is now hunkering down to save itself. For many
years, Anglo and other South African corporations went beyond
the usual realm of business, challenging the government to
scrap racial segregation and white minority rule in favor of
power sharing with the black majority. Now that the
government has moved boldly in this direction by unbanning
the ANC, the Communist Party and other groups and by engaging
them in negotiations, the company that so ardently promoted
change is scrambling to protect itself from the fallout.
   At its mines and factories, Anglo is wrestling to contain
the heightened political tensions of a polarized work force;
already, several clashes between white and black miners have
disrupted gold production in the Orange Free State. And in
the board room, Anglo is circling the wagons against threats
from the newly legal political organizations to nationalize
or break up the company as a means of dismantling the greater
white economic monopoly. In the new politics of correcting
the inequities of apartheid, Anglo is the fattened calf.
   "Anglo reflects the concentration of economic power within
a minority of a white minority," says Tito Mboweni, an ANC
economist. "Clearly, a future government will have to deal
with this."
   Anglo towers over the South African economy from the top
of a pyramid of interlocking corporate holdings. With an
asset base exceeding $14 billion, Anglo controls at least
one-third of the total capitalization of the Johannesburg
Stock Exchange. In addition to being the world's largest gold
producer, Anglo is a partner in the diamond cartel with its
cousin, De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd., which showed its
reach last week by signing a $5 billion deal to market the
Soviet Union's diamonds. Anglo is also involved in breweries
and banks, cars and chemicals, steel and sugar, wine and
watermelon.
   At the pyramid's pinnacle is an all-white, all-male
executive committee -- they call themselves a "band of
brothers" -- that operates from a squat three-story building
in downtown Johannesburg known simply as 44 Main Street.
   Anglo always reckoned that it would have the most to gain
from an economy freed from segregation: An end to apartheid
would end South Africa's isolation and allow Anglo to give
rein to its ambitions to expand abroad. But, in the perilous
transition to a post-apartheid economy, Anglo may also have
the most to lose.
   Anglo has been a symbol of dominance ever since Ernest
Oppenheimer opened for business in 1917. While the
pro-government Afrikaans press caricatured Mr. Oppenheimer as
the cigar-chomping "Hoggenheimer" out to subvert
Afrikanerdom, the left-wing press portrayed Anglo as the
bowler-hatted robber barons of apartheid, prospering from
cheap black labor. In the 1960s, the ruling Afrikaners, wary
of Anglo's increasing financial power, even discussed
nationalizing the gold mines. Anglo nipped that threat by
spinning off one of its mining holdings to Afrikaner control.
   But the clamor today is different. The ANC and others
aren't talking about a few crumbs but about an economic
restructuring to match the political overhaul currently in
progress. While Anglo, along with most of the business
community, agrees with the need to redistribute wealth, it is
having trouble coming up with ways to let go. Having spun an
elaborate web of possession and control, the spider now seems
to be caught in its own design.
   "We can't make ourselves smaller," says Julian Ogilvie
Thompson, Anglo's chairman. Vulnerability hangs with the
cigar smoke in his regally appointed office. Exasperation
taints his Oxford accent. "I mean, that isn't going to make
sense. Any company has got to grow to stay alive."
   He talks about the virtues of capitalism and its triumph
over socialism. He notes the misery in the rest of Africa,
aggravated by Marxism and mismanagement. He cites Anglo's
anti-apartheid credentials: the main donor to white, liberal
opposition politics, the first company to recognize black
unions, the huge spending -- now more than $20 million a year
-- on black education, training and housing.
   But in a country where many blacks equate capitalism with
apartheid -- and both with Anglo American -- this isn't
enough. What more, Mr. Thompson wonders, can a company do
without sacrificing its business? "I'm afraid we have no
quick fix," he says. He beseeches a visitor: "Have you some
ideas?"
   Such groping is rare at 44 Main. When he founded Anglo
(partly with capital from Newmont Mining and the J.P. Morgan
bank in the U.S., hence the "American" in Anglo American),
Ernest Oppenheimer created not just a mining company but a
mining finance house, with all the capital and technical
skills he needed assembled under one roof. Soon, he was
acquiring diamond concessions to go with the gold and
parlaying these holdings into a world-wide cartel of diamond
producers that would regulate the gem's marketing and,
ultimately, its price.
   Since mining needed a certain amount of civil engineering
and building, Mr. Oppenheimer founded what has become one of
the country's major construction groups; likewise, mining's
need for explosives prompted him to create a chemicals
company, today the country's largest. As mining brought the
industrial revolution to South Africa, Anglo pushed into
steel and paper. And what it didn't start, it bought --
interests in insurance, banking, property, publishing,
retailing and auto manufacturing. With little competition,
Anglo just kept growing as the country itself grew into the
most developed in Africa.
   "Our policy," says former Anglo Chairman Gavin Relly, "is
based on making things happen and not waiting for them to
happen to us."
   This philosophy -- possession begets control, control
begets stability -- is reflected in Anglo's vast holdings,
which for the fiscal year ended March 31 produced net income
of about $720 million; the retained earnings of its
associated companies raises that profit to above $1.2
billion. At the core is a dizzying circle of cross-holdings
among Anglo, De Beers and Anglo American Investment Trust
(Anamint), which protects the trio from hostile takeover:
Anglo owns 7% of De Beers, which owns 38% of Anglo; Anglo
owns 52% of Anamint, which owns 26% of De Beers, which owns
10% of Anamint. Behind this web lies the influence of
81-year-old Harry Oppenheimer, Ernest's son, who controls the
family's 8% stake in Anglo.
   From this circle of control spins the financing to sustain
chains that reach far into the country's economy. For
example: Anglo holds 40% in mining house Johannesburg
Consolidated Investments Ltd. (JCI), which holds 37% of
publisher Argus Group Ltd., which holds 38% of another
publisher, Times Media Ltd.; for good measure, Anglo directly
holds 15% of Argus, and JCI has a direct 27% stake in Times
Media. In the end, Anglo effectively controls the country's
two main English-language publishing houses and most of the
English-language newspapers.
   Anglo executives have been exploring ways to untangle this
web, but mining analysts say inertia has set in. In 1987,
Anglo initiated an employee share ownership plan, but so far
it involves less than 1% of issued shares. Partnerships with
black entrepreneurs on supply contracts are in their infancy;
management buy-outs or spinning off companies to employees
apparently aren't being considered.
   "The people at the top just aren't thinking radically
enough," says Duncan Innes, a professor of industrial
sociology at Johannesburg's University of the Witwatersrand.
"And in South Africa today, you have to think radically."
   Instead, Anglo has turned conservative. "I don't think
this is the time to come out with great undertakings one way
or the other," says Mr. Relly, who is still an Anglo
director. Sitting beside Nelson Mandela at a press conference
following a recent meeting between the ANC and business
leaders, Mr. Relly testily said he wouldn't join in any
"fatuous" discussions about the breakup of Anglo.
   Not fatuous to everyone. Having studied economics in
Lesotho and England during his 10 years in exile, the ANC's
Mr. Mboweni now works behind a second-hand desk surrounded by
peeling wallpaper in a downtown Johannesburg office. Bigness,
he argues, concentrates investment decisions in too few hands
-- almost all of them white -- and stifles competition as
well as black economic empowerment.
   "Just look at this. It's like a giant octopus," he says,
waving a chart of Anglo's corporate holdings. He picks up a
pen, and, like a surgeon making an incision, draws a big X
over the line linking Anglo to First National Bank of South
Africa and another X over the line to Southern Life
Association, a big insurer. Slicing off these operations, he
says, should take care of Anglo's reach over the finance
industry.
   The ANC calls this "clipping the wings" of the
conglomerates. At the moment, says Mr. Mboweni, the ANC
favors antitrust legislation, rather than nationalization, to
do the clipping. "The conglomerates reflect the nature of our
society," he says. "What good is breaking up the whites'
political monopoly if the economic monopoly remains?"
   Mr. Relly cringes at such logic; he has tried hard to
change it. In 1985, he led a small delegation of businessmen
to the ANC's exile headquarters in Lusaka, Zambia, for the
first-ever talks between the two groups. Since then, Anglo
officials have met regularly with ANC members around the
world. One even visited Mr. Mandela in prison. And when Mr.
Mandela was released in February after 27 years in jail, Mr.
Relly was the first prominent white businessman to stop by
his home.
   Still, the image of Anglo as a robber baron persists in
the minds of many ANC officials and black South Africans.
"One of the things one has come to understand is the
enormously long lead time which is necessary to change these
fundamental attitudes," Mr. Relly says. "All you can say is
that we're trying."
   So, the once-secretive company is pinning its salvation on
communication. Rather than restructuring itself, Anglo hopes
to restructure its corporate image.
   In the mines, Anglo is trying to repair its image with the
National Union of Mineworkers, a staunch ANC ally and Anglo's
chief adversary during a miners' strike in 1987. Mr. Hobday,
the mine manager at Western Deeps, has initiated a series of
sensitivity seminars, a first in the macho mining industry.
Every day, a different group of 50 black miners gets a chance
to speak their minds with management. Asked to list five
areas of discrimination in the mines, the miners usually come
up with 10 or more. Topping the list one day is: "When we get
into the cages (elevators) with whites we are called
`kaffirs.'" Kaffir is the equivalent of "nigger."
   Though the program is only a few weeks old, miner Mtatale
Mamokheli notices a little improvement underground. "The
supervisors are being more accommodating," he says, a light
shining from his hard-hat. "Before, we weren't looked upon as
being people."
   Back at 44 Main, there is talk of shaping a "national
attitude" where big isn't necessarily seen as bad. "We'll
have to go on pressing ahead, persuading people that we're
fair and constructive to employees," says Mr. Thompson.
   Communication is key, he says. Later, in an office down
the hall, the telephone rings. It is the ANC's Mr. Mboweni.
He has read in the newspapers that Anglo's annual report is
out. Can he have a copy?
   Certainly, he is told, it will be on his desk soon. Hand
delivered.
   ---
           Anglo American: A South African Giant
                                                                                                       

       Consolidated 1990 earnings by business segment*
                                                                                                       

        Diamonds ......................  28.4%
        Mining Finance ................  20.7%
        Other industrial activities ...  19.0%
        Gold and Uranium ..............  11.9%
        Platinum ......................  10.0%
        Financial services and property   5.8%

                                                                                                       

   *Fiscal years end March 31.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Top-Ranked Zweig Is Nervous About Stocks
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   RD SC TXU DTE UN UL PG BA SCIXF SNPX CGNE CPB CBIO SYGN
SYN GE IBM
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Martin Zweig, whose stock market newsletter is
the top performer over the past 10 years, says he is "queasy
about the economy" and nervous about the outlook for stocks.
   Clad in blue jeans, he sits in his office here, surrounded
by a jukebox, traffic light and Cleveland Indians
memorabilia, and offers this prognosis:
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "My guess is that the market will be lower in six months.
I'm surprised that the economy has held up this well. Retail
sales are lousy. The money supply is terrible. And there is
too much debt."
   Mr. Zweig is advising subscribers to his widely followed
Zweig Forecast to keep only about 40% of their money in the
stock market. But he isn't bailing out, at least not yet,
saying, "I live in the intermediate term." He says his
philosophy is that "if the market's going to go up 10% and
then down 50%, I want to be bullish, not bearish."
   Mr. Zweig excels in a 10-year ranking newly issued by Mark
Hulbert, the de facto official scorer for the investment
newsletter industry. For a decade now, Mr. Hulbert, a former
philosophy student, has been collecting data on the nation's
investment newsletters.
   Hundreds of thousands of investors use newsletters to
ferret out promising stocks or decide how much money to risk
in the market. Such advice doesn't come cheap. Most
newsletter subscriptions cost $100 to $500 a year.
   Accordingly, investors pay a lot of attention to Mr.
Hulbert's rankings, published in the monthly Hulbert
Financial Digest (annual price: $135). Mr. Zweig's newsletter
has done consistently well. He now manages or helps to manage
$4 billion in pension funds, mutual funds and partnerships.
   The accompanying table also lists some other newsletters
that have given their readers a good steer, in various
periods through the end of June. Mr. Hulbert can't track all
of the investment newsletters in this country, which number
several hundred. But he has rated 21 newsletters for the full
10 years, 61 for five years and 100 for the past year.
   Asked to name some of his current favorite stocks, Mr.
Zweig sounds almost reluctant. Royal Dutch Petroleum "is OK"
he says, with a multiple, or stock price divided by per-share
earnings, of 11. He says two utilities "screen well" on his
computer: Texas Utilities and Detroit Edison.
   He likes Unilever but quickly adds that it's "not cheap"
at 17 times per-share earnings. He recently sold Procter &amp;
Gamble shares because they had reached a multiple of 20 times
earnings.
   Mr. Zweig isn't a fanatic on the subject of price-earnings
ratios. He likes stocks with accelerating earnings, which
typically command fairly high multiples. But now, edgy as he
is about the market, Mr. Zweig prefers to play it safe with
lower-multiple stocks that probably won't fall as far if the
market slides.
   A week ago, he jettisoned a few issues from his
newsletter's portfolio, bringing the average multiple down to
about 12 from 14. (The average stock in the market these days
sells at a multiple of more than 16 times the past 12 months'
earnings.)
   Louis Navellier, the five-year champ in the Hulbert derby,
says he expects the major market averages to "flop around
like a fish out of water" for the next few months. "I'm not
optimistic for the blue-chips," he says. "They don't have the
earnings."
   But Mr. Navellier says investors can still win with
carefully selected growth stocks. His computers comb the
market for stocks that move independently of the broad
market, exceed analysts' earnings estimates and have
expanding profit margins.
   A few big-company stocks, such as Boeing and P&amp;G, qualify,
he says. But most of his choices are smaller stocks, and many
of them are American depositary receipts of foreign
companies.
   One of his favorites is Scitex, based in Israel, which has
a big world-wide market share in commercial color printing
equipment. Rupert Murdoch, the international media baron,
owns about 20% of the shares. And Scitex has the "obscene"
profit margins Mr. Navellier says he loves to see. Earnings
were more than 25% of sales in the past four quarters and
more than 30% in the most recent quarter.
   Another pick is SynOptics Communications, traded over the
counter. This Mountain View, Calif., computer networking
company specializes in "high-end," or large and complicated,
systems. Profit margins have expanded to 16.5% from 12.2% in
the past four quarters. "I love that dearly," Mr. Navellier
says. Wall Street analysts, he says, don't pay enough
attention to trends in profit margins, so companies with
improving margins often surprise the Street with favorable
earnings reports.
   Medical Technology Stock Letter placed first for the past
12 months. Long-term investors "should be fully invested,"
Jim McCamant, the editor, says, but short-term investors are
reaching a juncture where some sales might be prudent.
   He expects a market decline this year "in the 10% to 12%
range" and says he thinks the economy will "continue to flirt
with a recession."
   But Mr. McCamant says the medical technology sector "does
well during periods of low economic growth." His three
favorite stocks are basically development-stage companies
that show promise, not profits: Calgene, Davis, Calif.,
genetically modifies plants to produce varieties with
attributes such as low saturated fat, resistance to insects
or high density. Mr. McCamant says the company has "products
proven in the field" in cotton and tomatoes. The tomato
project is a cooperative venture with Campbell Soup, which
wants denser tomatoes that yield more paste or ketchup.
   California Biotechnology, based in Mountain View, has a
patent on a nasal delivery system for human growth hormone.
It seeks approval from the Food and Drug Administration for
fibroblast growth factor to heal bedsores and other wounds
and a product intended to improve lung function in infants
born prematurely.
   Synergen, Boulder, Colo., also is working with fibroblast
growth factor. In the pipeline is a product intended to
inhibit inflammation, which would help arthritis patients.
And Mr. McCamant says the company has "one of the best
neuroscience programs on chemicals in the brain," funded
mainly by its much larger joint-venture partner, Syntex.
   ---
   The stock market crowned a new king last week.
   General Electric, fulfilling a long-held dream of its
chairman, Jack Welch, succeeded International Business
Machines as the U.S. company with the biggest market
capitalization, defined as its stock price times the number
of shares outstanding.
   At Friday's closing price of 72, GE had a total market
value of $63.98 billion. IBM, which closed at 111 3/8, had a
total market value of $63.85 billion.
   GE could lose its crown, of course, if its stock sinks or
IBM's rallies. IBM was displaced as the "market cap" leader
for a few months late last year and early this year by Exxon,
which now ranks No. 3 with a market value of $61.15 billion.
   -- David B. Hilder
   ---
         Newsletters That Have Given the Best Advice
                                                                                                       

 Estimated total returns based on newsletter advice, in
periods ended June 30, 1990.
                                                                                                       

                          TEN YEARS
                                                                                                       

   Zweig Forecast                               482%
   Value Line Investment Survey                 460%
   The Chartist                                 361%
   Value Line OTC Special Situations            357%
   Growth Stock Outlook                         352%
                                                                                                       

                         FIVE YEARS
                                                                                                       


   OTC Insight                                  292%
   California Technology Stock Letter           171%
   Mutual Fund Strategist                       159%
   Princeton Portfolios                         148%
                                                                                                       

                          ONE YEAR
                                                                                                       

   Medical Technology Stock Letter               91%
   Wall Street Generalist                        70%
   Your Window Into the Future                   64%
   Granville Market Letter                       51%
   Value Line OTC Special Situations             51%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Hulbert Financial Digest
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   BRITISH FINANCIER Robert Maxwell owns a 27% stake in
Scitex Corp. A money manager interviewed in Monday's Heard on
the Street column mistakenly attributed the stake to Rupert
Murdoch.
   (WSJ Aug. 1, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   JNJ FNB FNM EUROP CANDA G.DBK DRSDY JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                       CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Associates Corp. of North America -- $300 million of 8
7/8% senior notes, due Aug. 1, 1995, priced at 99.94 to yield
8.89%. The noncallable notes were priced at a spread of 67
basis points over the Treasury five-year note. Rated
double-A-3 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and
double-A-minus by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be
sold through underwriters led by Kidder Peabody &amp; Co.
   Johnson &amp; Johnson -- $250 million of 8 1/2% notes, due
Aug. 15, 1995, priced at par to yield 8.5%. The noncallable
notes were priced at a spread of 27 basis points over
Treasury's five-year note. Rated Triple-A by both Moody's and
S&amp;P, the issue will be sold through underwriters led by
Salomon Brothers Inc. The offering was increased to $250
million from $200 million.
   C.I.T. Group Holdings Inc. -- $200 million of 8 7/8%
senior notes, due Aug. 15, 1994, priced at par to yield
8.875%. The noncallable notes were priced at a spread of 66
basis points over Treasury's four-year note. Rated single-A-1
by Moody's and single-A-plus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold
through underwriters led by Bear Stearns &amp; Co.
   First Chicago Corp. -- $100 million of 9 7/8% subordinated
notes, due Aug. 15, 2000, priced at 98.625 to yield 10.097%.
The noncallable notes were priced at a spread of 165 basis
points over Treasury 10-year note. Rated Baa-1 by Moody's and
single-A-minus by S&amp;P., the issue will be sold through
underwriters led by Salomon Brothers Inc.
                                                                                                       

                        MORTGAGE
                                                                                                       

   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $250 million
issue of Remic mortgage securities offered in 22 classes by
Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette Securities. The offering, Series
1990-100, is backed by Fannie Mae 9 1/2% securities.
                                                                                                       

                       EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Province of Quebec (Canada) -- 250 million Canadian
dollars of 11% Eurobonds due Aug. 16, 2000, at a fixed
reoffering price of 98.97 via Societe Generale.
   Deutsche Bank Finance, Curacao, Netherlands Antilles (West
German parent) -- 300 million marks of bonds priced at 100.80
and due Aug. 29, 2000, via Deutsche Bank. Coupon is 9 1/2%
for first three years, 15 1/8% less the six-month London
Interbank Offered Rate for the final seven years. Guaranteed
by Deutsche Bank AG in Frankfurt. Fees 1.70.
   Dresdner Finance BV (West German parent) -- 150 million
Swiss francs of 7% public bonds due Aug. 23, 1995, priced at
101.75 via Dresdner Bank (Schweiz). Guaranteed by Dresdner
Bank AG, Frankfurt.
   Ask Planning Center (Japan) -- 150 million Swiss francs of
privately placed convertible notes due Dec. 31, 1995, with a
fixed 5% coupon at par via Union Bank of Switzerland. Notes
callable beginning June. 30, 1993 at 104, declining by one
point annually. Each 50,000 Swiss franc note convertible from
Sept. 3, 1990 to Dec. 20, 1995 at a premium approximately 2
1/2% pc over the closing share price Aug. 2, when terms are
fixed. Fees 1.50.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOVIET-ALBANIAN TALKS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Albania is holding talks with the Soviet Union on renewing
diplomatic ties, the Albanian news agency ATA reported yes
terday.
   The agency said a Soviet foreign-ministry delegation
arrived in Tirana Satur day to discuss the normalization of
rela tions between the two countries.
   The Soviet Union broke off diplomatic relations with
Albania in 1961 as a result of a split with China, which then
became Albania's chief communist ally. Albania, the last
hard-line communist state in Europe, also has no relations
with the U.S.
   In Albania, the government proposed that agricultural
workers be given larger plots of land to farm individually,
the ATA news agency reported. Plans to allow a measure of
private farming were announced several weeks ago, but the ATA
report was the first to contain details.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN VIETNAM
                                                                                                       

   Oil and gas projects accounted for most of the $245.6
million in new investment in Vietnam in the first six months
of this year, the official Vietnam News Agency said; of that
total, $197 million came from abroad. The report said Vietnam
granted licenses for 54 foreign-investment projects in the
first half of the year. Four projects involved oil and gas,
but they accounted for 73% of the capital. Other projects
involved tourism, services, fishing, agricultural processing
and consumer goods, the report said.
                                                                                                       

   NERVOUS NORWAY
                                                                                                       

   Norway's Environment Minister Kristin Hille Valla urged
West Germany, the Netherlands and Spain to refrain from
exporting their radioactive waste to a disposal and
reprocessing site at Dounreay, Scotland. She said a radiation
leak from the northern Scotland site could contaminate
Norway, neighboring countries and fish stocks. She cited a
1987 United Nations report urging nations using nuclear power
to dispose of waste within their own boundaries. The Dounreay
plant reprocessed such nuclear fuels as enriched uranium
until the early 1970s. It is due to reopen and possibly
expand, said a Norwegian Environment Ministry official.
                                                                                                       

   THAILAND'S EXPORT GROWTH
                                                                                                       

   Led by strong growth in industrial products, Thai exports
in the first half of 1990 were 15.5% higher than the same
period last year, an official of the Department of Business
Economics said. A report from the department said the
strongest industrial exports were computers, integrated
circuits, shoes and garments. The report projected that
exports would total $23.9 billion for the year, compared with
last year's $20.2 billion.
                                                                                                       

   NINJA TURTLES ABROAD
                                                                                                       

   The Beecroft Public School in Sydney, Australia, has
banned games or play related to "Teenage Mutant Ninja
Turtles." "The children have been fighting in the playground
and picking up sticks to use," a school official said. "When
you ask them what they are doing, they say they are just
doing Ninja Turtles." And in Leeds, England, two firemen had
to be rescued from a sewer Friday after trudging through
water in search of children imitating the Ninja Turtles. The
children were already above ground by the time their
exhausted would-be rescuers radioed a colleague to come and
get them.
                                                                                                       

   THEFT IN THE PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                       

   Philippine Defense Secretary Fidel Ramos accused
politicians of stealing relief goods intended for victims of
the July 16 earthquake. Canned milk, sardines and blankets
sent by foreign donors were not reaching victims of the quake
and were being diverted to supporters of local politicians in
areas unaffected by the quake, Mr. Ramos said. Two truckloads
of relief goods were stolen before they could reach the
northern city of San Jose in the devastated province of Nueva
Ecija, rescue officials said.
                                                                                                       

   KEEPING POLAND POLISH
                                                                                                       

   A motion to bar sale of Polish government-owned real
estate to non-Poles was approved by a 224-136 vote with seven
abstentions in the lower house of Parliament.
   There is widespread concern among Poles that their country
will be "bought out" by Westerners -- particularly Germans --
seeking relatively inexpensive properties in Eastern Europe.
   The law doesn't apply to privately owned land, which
currently can be sold to foreigners with the permission of
the Interior Ministry. Such sales were strictly limited under
the former communist regime and are still infrequent, with
80% of the approvals going to foreigners of Polish origin,
Interior Minister Krzysztof Kozlowski told Parliament.
   Last week, the Polish Senate gave final approval to
legislation that would permit transferring 80% of the
nation's state-owned industry to private investors.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   The Soviet Union plans to abolish its censorship
organization, Glavlit, which for decades was the guardian of
the Communist Party line in literature and the arts, a Soviet
newspaper said. Komsomolskaya Pravda said Glavlit will be
replaced by Guot, an organization concerned with guarding
state secrets. . . . In Britain, Queen Elizabeth II won a
high court injunction banning publication of "Courting
Disaster," a book by a former royal clerk. The book
reportedly describes heavy drinking and illicit sex among
royal employees and includes a picture of the queen in bed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Alltel Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AT
</CO>
<LP>
   ALLTEL Corp. (Hudson, Ohio) -- Max E. Bobbitt, executive
vice president and chief financial officer, was elected a
director of this telephone and information services concern,
filling a vacancy on the board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Conquest Exploration Ends Bids
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   CQX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Conquest Exploration Co. said it has failed to
receive proposals for a merger or sale of all or part of the
company that it deems acceptable and is terminating the
bidding process. In January, the exploration and production
concern hired an investment banking concern to assist with a
possible sale of all or parts of the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PictureTel Expects to Post Profit in '90
   After Six Years of Struggle and Losses
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   PCTL
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   PEABODY, Mass. -- After six years of unprofitability as it
struggled to improve technology and create a market for
videotelephones, PictureTel Corp. expects to break into the
black this year.
   Norman E. Gaut, president and chairman, said in an
interview, "We should be profitable in the third and fourth
quarters," and may have a small profit for the full year.
That outlook indicates that second-half profit may exceed the
net loss of $1.1 million, or 38 cents a share, in the first
six months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Gaut added that sales for the full year will be $35
million to $40 million, which would double last year's level.
For 1989, PictureTel posted a loss of $4.3 million, or $1.61
a share, on sales of $18.6 million.
   "The marketplace is at the cusp of a major expansion," Mr.
Gaut said. He said that PictureTel foresees doubling revenue
for several more years.
   PictureTel makes videoconferencing systems, which allow
people in one room to talk to and see people in another room
a block, or even a continent, away. The $55,000
videoconference systems include a 27-inch television screen,
a video camera, a remote controller and a codec, which is a
computer that compresses and decodes the video signals so
they can be transmitted over telephone wires connected to
digital telephone switches.
   PictureTel's key technology is its ability to compress the
signals with the codec. Besides selling full systems, it also
sells $30,000 codecs directly to small businesses that
assemble and sell videoconference systems.
   PictureTel, founded by Massachusetts Institute of
Technology researchers, has concentrated on electronically
compressing video images to use less band width on expensive
telephone lines. It can currently provide good quality images
at 112 kilobits a second, which costs as little as $15 an
hour for corporations with leased lines. Five years ago,
comparable quality would have cost $1,000 an hour.
   To a user, the other party is clearly recognizable,
although an animated speaker takes on a fuzzy appearance
because the compression software has trouble depicting
motion. "You wouldn't want to conduct an aerobics class,"
joked Mr. Gaut. On the other hand, motionless product models
-- such as white-board diagrams and overhead projections --
are clearly visible.
   PictureTel already has announced plans to introduce
software that it says will improve the image by 70%.
   Mr. Gaut says that sales are expanding, in part because
long-distance telephone companies have increased greatly the
number of digital lines and switches available. And prices
are getting as low as ordinary voice connections because of
competition among MCI, AT&amp;T and Sprint, he said. The digital
lines are available in the U.S., Japan, the U.K. and France,
but still haven't reached other Western European markets or
most Asian areas.
   Later this year, telephone companies and marketers are
expected to adopt standards that will allow codecs from
different manufacturers to talk to each other. Mr. Gaut
predicted that will broaden the market just as facsimile
machine standards helped the fax business to explode.
   PictureTel said its customer base is expanding rapidly.
Last year it sold 570 units -- more than its entire previous
production -- and this year it expects to sell 800 to 900.
   Customers include Bechtel Corp., which uses the unit for
conferences with engineers in distant offices; Cowen &amp; Co.,
where investment bankers in San Francisco and stock analysts
in Boston discuss market prospects; and Bain &amp; Co., which
connects management consultants in Boston, London and San
Francisco to plan client presentations. The U.S. Air Force,
another customer, requires some contractors to install
systems so procurement officers can hold face-to-face
consultations without flying to the contractors' plants.
   Mr. Gaut predicted that prices will continue to drop.
Within two years, he said, PictureTel will make a smaller
codec that can be installed in $12,000 multimedia
workstations with a video camera on top to create a
high-quality, desktop videophone. He said prices of such
video workstations will drop to the $5,000 level by the mid
1990s. By the second half of the decade, he predicted,
PictureTel will have pushed the technology to the point where
$1,000 home videophones will be practical.
   Mr. Gaut said that although the company will have to raise
additional funds in the next year, it doesn't need funds
immediately. It has $3.5 million in cash, $5 million in bank
lines and $3 million in lease credit lines. He added that if
public markets aren't available when funds are needed, he
believes funds would be available through the venture capital
firms that refinanced the company in 1988 and continue to
hold a substantial stake.
   This year, research and development will amount to about
19% of total revenue, down from 30% last year. Mr. Gaut said
R&amp;D spending will continue to rise, but more slowly than
revenue. "All our financial ratios are fine except for that
one," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Grumman Says
   2nd-Period Net
   Gained Sharply
   ---
   An Increase of 28% or More
   Is Estimated, Exceeding
   Analysts' Expectations
   ----
   By Charles W. Stevens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   GQ
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   BETHPAGE, N.Y. -- Grumman Corp.'s second-quarter earnings
sharply exceeded analysts' expectations, and profit in the
second half should be "significantly" higher than a year
earlier, Renso L. Caporali, chairman, said.
   In an interview, Mr. Caporali said that when Grumman
reports second-quarter results this week, probably Wednesday,
the figures will show that net income rose at least 28% to
between $25 million and $30 million, or 75 to 80 cents a
share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the year-earlier period, Grumman earned $19.5 million,
or 56 cents a share.
   Grumman this year has taken a number of steps to handle
the expected decline in U.S. defense contracts, including
offering early retirement to several thousand employees. But
even if the early retirement program is a success, Mr.
Caporali said, further layoffs may be necessary.
   Securities analysts who follow the company have predicted
Grumman's second-quarter earnings will be about unchanged at
between 50 and 60 cents a share.
   Second-quarter sales rose about 20% from $881 million a
year earlier, Mr. Caporali said, indicating sales in the area
of $1 billion.
   Mr. Caporali attributed the improvement primarily to the
beginning of full production of the F-14D fighter for the
Navy this year. "We're pretty much in full swing" with the
assembly of the plane, he said.
   The second-quarter earnings growth also stemmed from
increased sales of aircraft parts to Boeing Co. as a result
of Boeing's own sales boom, higher revenue and profit in
Grumman's data systems business, and improved margins in the
production of delivery vehicles for the U.S. Postal Service,
Mr. Caporali said. He said he believes the higher margins in
the postal vehicle business were linked to an employee
profit-sharing plan begun in that operation. "We're going to
try to look at applying it elsewhere" in the company, he
said.
   In addition, Mr. Caporali said interest expense fell $3
million in the first six months from the 1989 first half,
with the decrease coming primarily in the second quarter.
Debt outstanding dropped to $890 million as of June 30 from
$950 million at the end of 1989.
   Receivables and inventories fell to $1.6 billion June 30
from $1.78 billion at the end of the year, he said.
   The backlog fell to $7 billion at June 30 from $7.4
billion a year earlier, mainly because of the delivery of
postal vehicles as part of a five-year, $1 billion order for
almost 100,000 vehicles.
   Mr. Caporali, formerly Grumman's vice chairman,
technology, took over the duties of chairman, president and
chief executive recently after the resignation of John
O'Brien. The company's board is searching for candidates to
fill those positions; Mr. Caporali is among those being
considered.
   Mr. O'Brien resigned amid reports that his name had arisen
in a federal grand jury investigation of Pentagon procurement
fraud. Mr. Caporali has declined to discuss those reports,
but in the interview he said Grumman has been told the
company isn't a target of the investigation. Mr. O'Brien
wasn't available for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   U.S. Edges Perilously Close to a Bid
   To Influence Middle East Oil Politics
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush is skirting dangerously close
to the trap of meddling in Middle East oil politics.
   It's a trap the president could find himself skirting
again and again, as Iraqi President Saddam Hussein takes on a
dual role as Persian Gulf strongman and oil policeman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nine days ago, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Brent
Scowcroft, and Defense Secretary Dick Cheney quietly agreed
to a request from the United Arab Emirates to conduct joint
military exercises with an expanded U.S. force in the Persian
Gulf. The muscle-flexing was largely seen in the West as a
way to show that the U.S. is prepared to defend the UAE and
Kuwait. Iraq had threatened to punish both for exceeding
production quotas set by the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries and thereby driving down oil prices.
   The immediate military tensions seem to have cooled, as
Iraq and Kuwait opened talks over the weekend in Saudi Arabia
to ease the dispute. But the risk the Bush administration
runs is that it will be seen in the Middle East as not simply
having answered a friend's call for help, but rather as
having intervened militarily to encourage overproduction of
oil to drive down prices for the U.S.'s own imports.
   That is a dangerous perception. In the long run, it could
rally all Middle East oil producers behind the conspiracy
theories woven by the region's radicals, most notably Mr.
Hussein of Iraq.
   "A military exercise in a sense confirms -- as it will be
played out in the propaganda of the hawkish states -- what
Saddam Hussein has been saying all along," says G. Henry M.
Schuler, an energy analyst at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies. "And that is that this is all a plot
by the U.S. and Kuwait to lower oil prices."
   Bush administration aides are painfully aware of the
danger of appearing to meddle inside OPEC. So they are busy
trying to damp any such theories.
   "You haven't noticed, nor will you, any statement coming
out of here about internal OPEC policy," says a senior
administration official. "For us the issue is use of force in
the gulf, and it's that simple."
   In fact, the U.S. probably had little choice but to
respond with military movements when asked by the UAE, a tiny
sheikdom all but defenseless compared with Iraq. As the U.S.
was responding, Iraq was moving thousands of troops, hardened
by the Iran-Iraq war, to its disputed border with Kuwait.
   By the middle of last week, Iraq had moved up enough
battle-support units that U.S. intelligence analysts
concluded it was capable not only of striking at Kuwait but
of moving deep inside Saudi Arabia within a week if it chose
to do so.
   This Iraqi brinkmanship brought Mr. Hussein a partial
victory when OPEC agreed at the end of the week to a new
output ceiling to end Kuwaiti and UAE overproduction and
raise the cartel's target price to $21 a barrel from $18. But
that won't end the Iraqi challenge. U.S. officials calculate
that Mr. Hussein's goals are a $25-a-barrel target price,
$2.4 billion in payments from Kuwait for a disputed oil field
on their border and a new role for himself as OPEC enforcer.
   All this represents a troubling long-term trend for the
U.S., which has long counted on cooler heads among Saudi
Arabia's ruling family to be the key arbiters of OPEC
policies. Though the Saudis share Iraq's concern about
overproduction and desire for higher prices, they have always
argued for gentle and predictable increases in oil prices to
keep the world economy in good shape and prevent a switch to
alternative energy sources.
   There is little reason to think that Mr. Hussein, pressed
to pay off multibillion-dollar debts from the Iran-Iraq war,
holds such a moderate, long-term view.
   Moreover, the rise in his hawkish influence comes at a bad
time for the U.S. The Bush administration and congressional
budget negotiators are increasingly drawn to some kind of
energy-based tax to cut the federal deficit. Yet Iraq's
assertiveness seems to assure that there will be some
energy-price increase in coming months, which would compound
the economic impact of an energy tax.
   Against that backdrop, a temptation in the U.S. to try to
influence oil politics may grow despite the inherent risks. A
better option, some suggest, is for the U.S. to redouble its
efforts to build rapport with Mr. Hussein despite his
bluster. "It behooves the U.S. not to isolate Iraq, not to
allow it to become the lone warrior out there," says
Christine Helms, a Middle East analyst and expert on Iraq.
"Isolation produces radicalism."
   Yet selling such a policy is increasingly difficult, as
Congress clamors to cut U.S. links to Baghdad and
administration aides see Mr. Hussein's recent threats as just
one more mark in the growing ledger of his troubling actions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   SmithKline Beecham PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SBE
</CO>
<LP>
   SMITHKLINE BEECHAM PLC (Philadelphia) -- Jan Leschly,
chairman of SmithKline Beecham's world-wide pharmaceutical
business, was elected a director, increasing board membership
to 20. Mr. Leschly, 49 years old, joined SmithKline Beecham
in his current position in June 1990. Prior to that he served
from 1988 to 1989 as president and chief operating officer of
Squibb Corp., Lawrenceville, N.J.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   AER*X Wants to Be in the Middle of Pollution Rights
   ---
   Firm Expects Trading of Credits
   To Take Off if Clean-Air Bill Passes
   ----
   By Richard Koenig
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WPH NATC
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- John Palmisano is a new sort of bullish
broker. He deals in dirty air.
   During a stint at the Environmental Protection Agency, the
45-year-old Mr. Palmisano, an economist by training, helped
establish rights to pollute the air -- rights that companies
can buy and sell. Where there was demand for these rights, he
decided, there was room for a middleman: himself. Now this
former regulator is hoping for a frenzied market where, he
argues, he can do good by doing well.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I'm on a holy mission," Mr. Palmisano says. "If I'm
wrong, I'm doing something bad for the country. If I'm right,
maybe I'm doing something good."
   He has managed to build a business on his grasp of arcane
regulatory changes. His vehicle is AER*X, a trading and
consulting firm here that he founded in 1984 after leaving
the EPA. Although later that year he sold the company to WPL
Holdings Inc. of Madison, Wis., AER*X remains the founder's
province and retains an entrepreneurial spirit. (Ownership of
AER*X -- which has a staff of 12 and had revenue of $1.4
million last year -- is soon to pass to NaTec Resources Inc.,
under an acquisition agreement announced this month.)
   AER*X is bullish because pollution rights, currently a
thin graft on the body of environmental law, would be
suddenly expanded through the landmark clean-air legislation
pending in Congress. Bills before a House-Senate conference
committee would make these rights far more important in
regulating both acid rain and smog.
   The idea is to dangle the promise of profit before
companies that exceed government requirements for pollution
control. The more the company exceeds the requirements, the
more rights it accumulates, rights that others then can
acquire to cover their own emissions. That's where Mr.
Palmisano comes in.
   Although buyers and sellers could probably find one
another, AER*X saves them the trouble. "They've got the
contacts -- they've already got the wheel turning," says
Thomas Zosel, manager of pollution prevention at Minnesota
Mining &amp; Manufacturing Co., which has bought rights through
AER*X.
   AER*X declines to disclose the details of individual deals
it has executed. But Joshua Margolis, the company's chief
trader, cites glass-fiber makers in the Los Angeles area as
among the companies that have generated pollution rights by
reducing emissions of the hydrocarbons that contribute to
smog. He says that such a company emitting 1,000 pounds a day
under its permit could reduce its emissions to 650 pounds a
day, thereby creating a credit of 350 pounds a day. Credits
are selling in the range of $500 to $3,000 for the right to
emit one pound a day, he says.
   Even when companies hold onto their rights for allocation
among their own operations, a more common practice so far
than selling rights, AER*X gets business. For it offers
guidance in generating rights and having them certified by
regulators, a complex procedural path.
   Yet for AER*X, as for the regulatory concept on which it
tries to capitalize, the real test lies ahead. NaTec, a
Houston concern specializing in air-pollution controls,
proposes to make AER*X a prominent part of its plan to help
industry deal with regulatory change. Socrates Christopher,
NaTec's chief executive, says AER*X -- of which Mr. Palmisano
remains president -- may even take positions in pollution
rights if the new regulations permit, much as a Big Board
specialist holds stocks.
   Congress is relying on pollution rights to resolve the
nettlesome issue of acid rain. The clean-air legislation
would allocate rights -- in this context termed emission
allowances -- to electric utilities. Allowances for only
about half the utility industry's current emissions of sulfur
dioxide, a pollutant linked to acid rain, would be doled out.
So, overall emissions would have to be sharply reduced.
   But whether any company's store of allowances met its
needs would depend on whether it invests in additional
emission-control equipment, converts to cleaner fuels or
makes other operating changes, as well as whether it faces
growing electricity demand. Doubtless some firms would end up
long in allowances, some short. Thus arises the need for
trades, and a new market for Mr. Palmisano to maneuver in.
   Trading could also get a boost from proposals to reduce
smog. Already in the smoggiest cities, companies expanding
production need to own offsetting pollution rights if the
additional emissions of smog-creating compounds and other
pollutants cross certain quantitative thresholds. The
clean-air legislation, by lowering these thresholds, would
intensify demand for rights, in this case called offset
credits.
   State regulators in Southern California, moreover, are
ahead of Washington. Under rules enacted last month, not only
such large operations as oil refineries but also small ones
-- such as furniture factories, dry cleaners, bakers -- are
more likely to need credits if they want to expand in Los
Angeles and neighboring counties.
   All this portends heady possibilities for Mr. Palmisano.
The changes before Congress follow a clash of ideas that he
joined in the early 1980s as a member of the EPA's regulatory
reform staff. He belonged to a faction at the agency that
thought traditional "command-and-control" regulation, which
specifies smokestack-by-smokestack controls, was failing.
This group argued that plant managers, goaded by
profit-seeking executives, could outdo regulators in finding
ways to curb emissions, and do so at less cost than under
traditional rules.
   Some environmental groups, though not all, agree with that
view. Daniel Dudek, an economist at the Environmental Defense
Fund, even joined Mr. Palmisano in expressing frustration
with the slow pace at which pollution rights were gaining
acceptance. The two wrote an article titled "Emissions
Trading: Why Is This Thoroughbred Hobbled?" Now the hobbles
may be coming off.
   According to an EPA analysis, utilities in Pennsylvania
alone could annually be selling rights valued at $147 million
by the year 2005. Others aren't so sure, given a sudden
expansion in this sort of pollution regulation. Says Robert
Beck, who has been following the clean-air legislation for
Edison Electric Institute, a trade group, "Nobody really
knows what will happen out there."
   One uncertainty is whether companies will hoard pollution
rights, fearing to sell assets they may need later for
expansion. Another is whether the detailed regulations, which
won't be written until the legislation clears Congress, will
prove unwieldy.
   But Mr. Palmisano is holding out hope for a liquid market.
He talks about trading in leases and options on rights as
well as in the rights themselves. Engineering and law firms
are also likely to get a piece of the trading business. If
everything works out, "trading will explode," Mr. Palmisano
says. "There's no doubt about it. I just hope I get my
share."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chambers Development Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CDVA
</CO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Chambers Development Co. said it received a
permit from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Resources to expand the Arden Landfill in Washington County,
Pa., by 82 acres.
   With the permit, the landfill can accept an average of
2,400 tons of solid waste a day, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chambers is a waste collection, hauling and disposal
concern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Small Stocks Best Big Ones
   In Meeting Profit Forecasts
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW PYRD CNNR ADBE ADPT REXN AMGN BGEN IMNX CHIR CTUS
ATVC GGUY CDIC ARBR MEDC STJM CBRL
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Despite the recent thrashing of stocks in the
over-the-counter market, small stocks are doing a better job
than big ones of meeting investors' earnings expectations.
   "For every disaster, you can also find a company that
surprises you on the upside," says Bob Czepiel, portfolio
manager of RCS Emerging Growth Fund in Avon, Conn.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consider: second-quarter profits were up 9.3% at 219
smaller companies tracked by Claudia E. Mott, a
Prudential-Bache Securities analyst. And the earnings were
only 5.2% below expectations, she says, in contrast to
previous quarters when they missed forecasts by as much as
12%.
   In another break with the past, fully 29% of the small
companies tracked by Ms. Mott surpassed expectations while
28% disappointed analysts. The companies have an average
market value of $262 million. Usually small companies are
more apt to torpedo expectations than beat them.
   Ms. Mott is one of a number of analysts who are trying to
make sense of the market sell-off that in just two weeks has
wiped out much of the OTC market's gains of the previous two
months. The Nasdaq Composite Index and the Nasdaq Industrial
Index, which includes many technology issues, both peaked
July 16 with year-to-date gains of 3.3% and 14%,
respectively. By Friday, however, the Nasdaq Composite Index
was languishing with a loss of 2.7% for the year, and the
Nasdaq Industrial Index was up only 6.5%.
   But even among technology companies, smaller ones held
fewer earnings surprises than large ones, according to Ms.
Mott. Her calculations show that 35% of small technology
concerns she tracks turned in welcome surprises, while 25%
lagged expectations. Companies producing software and
peripheral products showed the most strength.
   Certain small companies will fare better in a slow economy
than large ones, analysts say, particularly those in health
care and medical products, pollution control and business
services. And some portfolio managers are planning to avoid
many technology issues during the typically slow summer
season.
   "My portfolio is as widely diversified as anytime I can
remember," says Jim Oberweis, who has been following small
stocks for 20 years. His Oberweis Emerging Growth Fund saw
nearly 8% of its year-to-date 30% gain erased last week.
"Last week was unpleasant," says Mr. Oberweis. "But it
doesn't affect my investment outlook at all." In addition to
health care companies promising growth rates of 30% a year or
more, Mr. Oberweis says he likes the insurer American
Travellers and Good Guys, a retailer of electronic products.
   The rocky first-quarter reporting period prompted Mr.
Czepiel's fund to limit holdings of high-tech companies to 2%
rather than 3% of assets. "That's just so when you do get
torpedoed, you don't sink quite as fast," Mr. Czepiel
explains. His RCS Emerging Growth Fund, which has a good
track record and typically invests in 40 to 50 stocks, has
trimmed its high-tech holdings to 14 issues from 20 since
May.
   Mr. Czepiel believes many small growth stocks remain
attractive. He says he has found 10 that are trading at no
more than 15 times their estimated earnings for the next four
quarters and that are likely to see revenue and earnings grow
at least 25% annually. Medical technology remains a favored
area for the fund.
   Armed with cash, portfolio managers say they took
advantage of last week's slaughter of the OTC market to buy
some shares. "When we see stocks decline in irrational
anticipation {of poor earnings}, we step up to the plate and
buy some," says Roy McKay, portfolio manager of the Scudder
Development Fund.
   With an eye toward long-term investments, the 105 stocks
in the Scudder fund are held for an average 4.6 years,
according to Mr. McKay. Among his holdings are Cardinal
Distribution, a wholesale distributor of food and drugs;
drugstore operator Arbor Drugs; Medical Care International,
an operator of ambulatory surgical centers; heart valve maker
St. Jude Medical; and restaurant chain Cracker Barrel Old
Country Store. He also likes companies involved in computer
networking and new technologies such as electronic voice
messaging.
   Promising stocks can be found even among the decimated
technology issues, portfolio managers say. "The
well-positioned companies continue to pull away from the
poorly positioned ones," says Larry Bowman, manager of the
top-performing Fidelity Select Computer and Fidelity Select
Technology funds.
   Among the companies he expects to remain strong are
workstation maker Sun Microsystems; Pyramid Technology, a
maker of super minicomputers; disk drive manufacturers
Quantum Systems and Conner Peripherals; software maker Adobe
Systems; Adaptec, a maker of computer data flow systems; and
Rexon, a maker of computer tape drives.
   Like other technology investors, Mr. Bowman says he has
turned to biotechnology companies this summer as he moved
away from computer-related businesses during the typically
slow third quarter. Among biotechnology issues, he favors
Amgen, Biogen, Immunex, Chiron and Cetus.
   Mr. Bowman says he expects biotechnology stocks will
continue to lead the technology group through September. By
October, he predicts, computer stocks should take off again.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks fell Friday to post their eighth
losing session in nine trading days as disappointing earnings
prospects continued to bruise stocks.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 2.84 to 442.59, ending the
week 2.8% lower than where it began. Volume slipped to 121.8
million shares from 136.1 million shares Thursday as
declining shares reclaimed their lead over advancers, 1,091
to 780.
   Robert Antolini, head of OTC trading at Donaldson, Lufkin
&amp; Jenrette, said that traders who accumulated positions while
the market slipped earlier in the week sold stock late Friday
so they could leave for the weekend without owning shares.
   Westmark International plunged 6 3/8 to 31 1/4. The
Seattle maker of patient monitoring devices lowered its 1990
earnings estimates to $2.20 to $2.50 a share, down from
earlier estimates of $2.50 to $2.75 a share, Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report said. Analysts at Shearson
Lehman, Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. and Hambrecht &amp; Quist all cut
their earnings estimates after the announcement and lowered
their investment opinions on Westmark, according to
Professional Investor Report.
   Metcalf &amp; Eddy tumbled 5 1/2 to 20 1/2. Harvey J. Goldman,
chief financial officer of the Branchburg, N.J., water and
waste treatment company, attributed the plunge to reductions
in earnings estimates and investment opinions by analysts at
Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. and Alex. Brown &amp; Sons, Professional
Investor Report said. Mr. Goldman said he is comfortable with
revised estimates the company will earn about $1.20 to $1.25
a share in fiscal 1990 ending in October, compared with $1.11
a share in fiscal 1989.
   Class A shares of Oshkosh B'Gosh dropped 3 1/2 to 30. The
Oshkosh, Wis., clothing retailer reported net income for the
second quarter edged up to 34 cents a share from 33 cents a
share and said it expects sales for the second half of 1990
to be relatively flat with a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong Tycoon to Buy 50% of Firm
   That Bought Columbia S&amp;L Junk Bonds
   ----
   By Robert Sherbin and Cynthia Owens
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   CSV CANDA GE H.CKH H.HUW
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Tycoon Li Ka-shing, expanding his overseas
interests, agreed to acquire 50% of the Canadian partnership
that bought the huge junk-bond portfolio of troubled Columbia
Savings &amp; Loan Association of Beverly Hills, Calif.
   Three companies controlled by Mr. Li said they will pay
US$150 million for a half interest in Gordon America L.P., a
limited partnership owned by the Toronto-based merchant bank
Gordon Investment Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gordon America has agreed to pay US$3 billion for
Columbia's portfolio of junk bonds and preferred stock.
Gordon Investment is a largely employee-owned bank that
numbers Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and a General
Electric Co. unit among its investors. It has close business
connections with Mr. Li.
   Two of Mr. Li's publicly traded companies will each take a
20% interest in Gordon America. They are the group flagship,
Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., a real-estate giant in Hong
Kong, and Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., one of the British colony's
major trading houses. A company owned by Mr. Li's family will
hold the remaining 10%.
   Securities analysts in Hong Kong expressed surprise at Mr.
Li's investment, noting that his extraordinarily successful
career has been built largely on real estate, not securities.
But Vincent Mang, a spokesman for the Li group, said: "We've
assessed the risk-and-reward ratio and found them
acceptable."
   The purchase fits in with statements Mr. Li made during an
interview with this newspaper in November, when he expressed
his desire to seek new investments outside the colony, where
almost 90% of his assets were then based.
   The deal, though far afield for the Li empire, isn't
unprecedented. In 1987, the group bought a 43% stake in Husky
Oil Ltd., Canada's largest energy company. The same year, the
Li group took a 5% stake in Britain's Cable &amp; Wireless PLC,
which was sold earlier this month for a profit of HK$700
million (US$89.6 million).
   The 62-year-old Mr. Li, a gutsy deal maker who started out
as a toy salesman in Hong Kong, now controls a vast domain of
container terminals, supermarkets and power plants. His
personal wealth is estimated at more than US$2 billion.
   Building on early successes in real estate, Mr. Li began
swallowing up British-controlled Hong Kong companies in the
late 1970s. His raids on the Jardine group, the oldest of the
colonial strongholds, in particular endeared him to Hong
Kong's ethnic Chinese, who make up the bulk of the
population. At the same time, he enjoyed close ties to
China's leaders and was a frequent guest at state functions
in Beijing.
   Richard Li, managing director of Hutchison's
corporate-fund-management committee and son of the tycoon,
portrayed the US$150 million investment as part of the Li
group's intention to diversify its holdings beyond Hong
Kong's shores. "We look at this investment as a window into
corporate America and into further investment opportunities,"
he said.
   The younger Mr. Li, however, played down the risk for the
two publicly traded Li companies involved, noting that they
have well over US$1 billion in cash, face great potential
profit and stand to lose no more than US$120 million in the
unlikely event that all of the bonds turn sour.
   The Columbia junk-bond portfolio, said to be the largest
collection held by any U.S. savings and loan association, was
valued at US$2.93 billion at March 31, after a plunge that
dumped US$890 million of losses on the thrift, rendering it
insolvent. The younger Mr. Li said the bonds, which include
300 securities issued by 175 companies spanning a wide range
of U.S. industries, bear yields ranging between 14% and 18%.
He said that "by far, the great majority" of the securities
are currently paying their coupons.
   Mr. Li may have been attracted to the stake in Gordon
America because of the favorable terms of its purchase of
Columbia's portfolio, stockbrokers in Hong Kong said,
especially since the U.S junk-bond market may have hit
bottom.
   Under the terms of the transaction, Gordon America agreed
to pay US$3 billion for the investment portfolio, but with
Columbia providing 90% financing on a nonrecourse basis. That
means the partnership can drop the portfolio if its losses
exceed 10%, and Columbia would have to take it back. The loan
carries interest of 10.5% and is secured by the portfolio.
   The sale could help Columbia in the short term, although
many U.S. analysts still believe the savings and loan will be
taken over and dismantled by regulators.
   U.S. regulators and legislators could oppose the sale,
however, because the federal government could ultimately end
up with the portfolio from Columbia if the junk-bond market
deteriorates again.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thermo Process Gets City Job
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TPI
</CO>
<LP>
   WALTHAM, Mass. -- Thermo Process Systems Inc. said its TPS
Technologies Inc. unit was awarded a contract by Richmond,
Va., to clean up petroleum-contaminated sites in the city.
The value of the contract isn't known, because the amount of
soil to be cleaned hasn't been determined.
   Under the contract, the unit will treat soil from the
city's public works, police and fire departments and other
city-owned sites for as long as five years, Thermo Process
said. "This is probably our biggest cleanup contract to
date," a spokesman said. "It's the first time we've gotten a
contract to clean up a whole city."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Debt of McDonnell,
   General Dynamics
   Is Downgraded
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   MD GD
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. and Moody's Investors Service Inc.
each lowered their ratings on debt of McDonnell Douglas
Corp., citing its weakened financial condition and the
troubles it is having with military programs.
   Separately, S&amp;P downgraded debt of General Dynamics Corp.,
reflecting second-quarter charges related to military jobs.
Both aerospace companies are based in St. Louis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   S&amp;P reduced McDonnell's senior debt to triple-B-plus from
single-A-minus and subordinated debt to triple-B from
triple-B-plus. The rating concern removed the issues from its
CreditWatch list, where it had placed them June 18. The
single-A-2 rating on commercial paper was affirmed.
   The McDonnell Douglas Finance Corp. unit's senior debt,
rated single-A-plus, and subordinated debt, rated single-A,
remain on CreditWatch with negative implications. The
single-A-1 commercial paper rating was placed on CreditWatch.
   Total debt of McDonnell and the finance unit is about $5.2
billion, S&amp;P said. It didn't say how much of the debt was
affected by its downgrades.
   S&amp;P said the reductions reflect potential cost overruns on
the Navy's A-12 attack plane that McDonnell is developing
with General Dynamics and the T-45 Navy trainer jet program.
It noted that McDonnell hasn't taken any charges against
earnings for the potential overruns. Instead, the company is
filing claims against the government for reimbursements it
believes are due on those programs; it included an estimate
of the value of these claims in its second-quarter earnings.
General Dynamics, however, took a $450 million charge in the
second quarter on the delayed A-12 program.
   Moody's said it downgraded its ratings on McDonnell's
commercial paper to prime-3 from prime-2, senior debt to
Baa-3 from Baa-1 and subordinated debt to Ba-2 from Baa-2. It
also lowered ratings on the finance unit's senior debt to
Baa-1 from single-A-2; subordinated debt to Baa-3 from
single-A-3; and commercial paper to prime-2 from prime-1.
   About $3 billion of long-term debt is affected by the
rating concern's actions.
   "McDonnell Douglas Corp.'s financial condition has
weakened significantly, despite several major restructuring
programs designed to significantly improve its cost
structure," Moody's said.
   McDonnell said it was "disappointed" by the ratings
reductions. "We don't feel that our company's performance,
financial condition and our future prospects warrant these
measures," a spokeswoman said.
   In its action regarding General Dynamics, S&amp;P downgraded
senior debt to singleA from single-A-plus and subordinated
debt to single-A-minus from single-A.
   About $610 million of long-term debt is affected.
   S&amp;P affirmed its single-A-1 ratings on commercial paper of
the company and its General Dynamics Credit Corp.
   S&amp;P said the downgrades reflect the $450 million charge
the company took in the second quarter for the delayed A-12
Navy attack plane and a $50 million charge on the Sincgars
Army radio program. "As a result," S&amp;P said, "financial
parameters will be weaker than previously anticipated."
   General Dynamics said of the downgrades, "We expected it,
and it is probably no surprise to the financial community,
either."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
McDonnell shares closed at $42.75, up 12.5 cents, and General
Dynamics shares closed at $27.375, down $2.125.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   National Steel's Troubleshooter Takes Aim
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   NII J.NKK
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Kokichi Hagiwara, National Steel Corp.'s new
chairman and chief executive officer, has set a goal as lofty
as Mt. Fuji: turning around the least profitable big
steelmaker in the U.S.
   Soon after NKK Corp., Mr. Hagiwara's parent company,
bought 50% of National Steel from National Intergroup Inc. in
1984, the union soured. National Steel has gone from first in
industry profit margins to dead last. Productivity lags
behind that of competitors, and labor relations have been
anything but cooperative.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That such a relationship would be so rocky surprised
nearly everyone. Even the toughest U.S. steel competitors
initially blanched at the union of deep-pocketed and
technologically advanced NKK and rock-solid National Steel.
But notes Charles Bradford, an independent steel analyst:
"It's wrong to put the Japanese on a pedestal as industrial
wizards." And late last month, the two parents, NKK and
National Intergroup, essentially split, leaving National
Steel in NKK's custody and Mr. Hagiwara in charge.
   The thin and wiry 66-year-old remains undaunted, insisting
that profits will double to $185 million in five years. To do
that, analysts say, he'll have to cut labor costs while also
installing more modern -- and expensive -- equipment. "I
wouldn't look for any short-term turnaround at National
Steel," says Mr. Bradford. "The Japanese plod along, paying
attention to detail."
   By the time Mr. Hagiwara arrived at National Steel as
president in 1986, the Japanese-American honeymoon there was
over. National Steel's longtime American president took an
early retirement that year in response to Japan's complaints
about his reluctance to share authority and information. To
make matters worse, National Intergroup said it planned to
sell its share of National Steel by 1990 and devote resources
to its upstart wholesale drug distribution business.
   Customers naturally became edgy about the steelmaker's
future, employee morale hit a low, and quality problems
worsened. National Steel's mills had 10 times as many
unexpected shutdowns and rejected 10% to 12% more steel for
impurities than NKK's mills in Japan.
   Mr. Hagiwara, considered a top technician at NKK, was
recruited as chief troubleshooter. Unlike his American
counterparts who manage from the top down, the calm and
methodical thinker rarely made moves without consulting
senior managers; he instituted weekly staff meetings and
created a nine-member management committee. Every month, he
visited a different plant -- the plants had previously
operated as autonomous fiefdoms -- to talk about inventory
and product line decisions.
   In his visits, Mr. Hagiwara focused on correcting quality
problems. Instead of fixing equipment only when it breaks
down, he stressed preventive maintenance. He tripled the
number of NKK engineers at three mills and says proudly that
by the end of the year, National Steel will be the first
American steel company with 100% of its steel continuously
cast.
   There's no question, analysts say, that National Steel has
made progress. Productivity has improved 16% and yield by 6%
since 1984-1985, says President Ronald Doerr. "The company
really made some strides in improving facilities and adding
new lines," says Christopher Plummer, an analyst with WEFA
Group. Moreover, Mr. Plummer says the Japanese connection
will help open doors to Japanese auto makers, who control 28%
of the U.S. automotive market.
   But, still the company remains one of the industry's least
profitable. Its competitors -- both minimills and huge
integrated steel plants -- haven't sat still while National
Steel improved, building high-tech plants to make quality
coated steel for auto makers, its biggest customer. In spite
of an annual $200 million capital improvement program, blast
furnaces need repairs and unscheduled maintenance breakdowns
abound. And while the company has one of the industry's most
generous and innovative labor contracts, including a job
security provision restricting layoffs, local unions have
fought against efficiency-boosting job flexibility.
   The soft-spoken executive sits back, puffing on a
cigarette, and nods at the litany of continuing problems. "We
are now paying some penalty due to lack of investment and
lack of maintenance during the 1980s," he acknowledges.
Moreover, huge investments take time to reap rewards and he's
a patient man. A statue of a Buddhist priest sits on his desk
as inspiration.
   "We're in the middle of a transition period," he says. "We
must find a good balancing point between short-term profits
and long-term viability."
   The company is also paying the penalty of a soured
marriage. Decision making was stalled by constant conferring
of two parents with different philosophies and strategies.
Having essentially one ownerNational Intergroup retains a 10%
stakeshould facilitate decision making.
   But it may also create problems with xenophobic customers.
Mr. Hagiwara admits NKK was reluctant to boost its stake, in
part, because of potential backlash from Detroit auto makers.
He is expected to keep a low profile, letting Mr. Doerr
represent the company in industrywide issues and pep talks to
workers.
   That doesn't mean Mr. Hagiwara hasn't adopted American
ways. He devours American spy novels, his favorite movie is
"Field of Dreams," and, while he speaks haltingly at times
and requires a translator, he insists on speaking English.
And he drives a Lincoln Town Car.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   GNP Slowed
   In 2nd Quarter
   To 1.2% Rate
   ---
   Data Show Economy Had
   Weakest Performance
   In 7 1/2 Years of Expansion
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- New government statistics on the condition
of the economy in the second quarter show that it was barely
afloat.
   Nearly every major indicator of private economic activity
declined, the government reported, making it about the
weakest performance in 7 1/2 years of expansion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Only a buildup of business inventories and a rise in
government spending kept the overall economy from contracting
during the period. Personal consumption, construction,
business investment and exports all declined.
   The annual rate of expansion for the second quarter was
1.2% after adjusting for inflation, down from a revised 1.7%
rate in the first quarter, the Commerce Department said. The
numbers were contained in a report on the nation's gross
national product, the market value of all the goods and
services the economy produces.
   "I think there's no question that the economy took a
decisive turn for the worse in the second quarter," said
Joseph Carson, senior economist at Chemical Bank in New York.
"I'd say the GNP data no longer hint at a recession but show
one in the making."
   Economists generally define a recession as two consecutive
quarters of negative growth. Although the economy has
weakened substantially over the past year, it has yet to have
a negative quarter.
   The Bush administration was decidedly more upbeat than
most private analysts in the wake of the latest numbers,
insisting that the economy not only will continue to grow but
will improve markedly in the second half of the year. Noting
that the White House recently forecast 2.2% growth for 1990,
Michael R. Darby, undersecretary of commerce for economic
affairs, said, "We expect a rebound in economic activity in
the second half of the year, especially in the fourth
quarter."
   But many economists say the administration's goal will be
nearly impossible to reach. To realize a 2.2% growth rate for
the year, the economy would have to grow at a 2.9% rate in
the second half, a pace not seen since the first quarter of
1989 -- when a rebound in farm production after a devastating
drought pushed growth to a 3.7% annual rate.
   "As I look forward, I have a very difficult time trying to
see where we're going to get much growth. It seems the third
and fourth quarters could get dangerously close to recession
territory," said Stephen Slifer, an economist at Shearson
Lehman Brothers in New York. "We don't seem to be getting
much contribution from the consumer. Business investment is
not doing much, government spending is not going to do much.
The only place I see growth is in trade."
   A number of economists believe the deterioration in
exports last quarter was an anomaly, as they have been
steadily growing for more than two years. But they also
expect government spending, one of the few sources of growth
last quarter, to slacken substantially later in the year, as
either the Bush administration and Congress agree on a
deficit-reduction package or mandated spending cuts go into
effect.
   The administration is hoping that the Federal Reserve will
give the economy a boost by pushing down interest rates, as
it did two weeks ago.
   "Monetary policy has recently become more supportive of
increased economic activity," Mr. Darby said at a news
conference after the report was released.
   But Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has twice indicated to
Congress that the central bank's policy makers viewed their
recent move to ease interest rates as a one-time action to
offset tight lending policies by banks.
   Still, analysts said, the Fed could be persuaded by a
slowdown in inflation. A price index in the GNP report rose
at a 3.9% annual rate in the second quarter, compared with a
6.6% rate in the first quarter. The central bank has been
keeping credit tight to try to wring inflationary pressures
from the economy. Much of the price deceleration in the
second quarter came in food prices, which soared in the first
quarter after a severe cold wave destroyed crops throughout
the nation.
   The second-quarter GNP report will be revised twice in the
next two months as the government collects more data.
   The Commerce Department also revised its estimates of
economic growth for each quarter back to 1986. For the most
part, the revised numbers indicated a slower pace of growth
than the old figures.
   From the fourth quarter of 1988 to the fourth quarter of
1989, for example, the economy grew 1.8% instead of 2.6% as
previously calculated. In the fourth quarter of 1989, the
economy was particularly unhealthy, growing at a mere 0.3%
annual rate instead of the 1.1% earlier estimated.
   All the numbers are adjusted for seasonal fluctuations.
   ---

                                                                                                       

   Here are some of the major components of the gross
national product expressed in seasonally adjusted annual
rates in billions of constant (1982) dollars:
                                                                                                       

                              2d Qtr.          1st Qtr.
                               1990             1990
                                                                                                       

 GNP ........................ 4163.2            4150.6
   less: inventory chng .....   26.2              -2.2
   equals: final sales ...... 4137.0            4152.8
                                                                                                       

 Components of Final Sales
   Personal Consumption ..... 2675.2            2677.3
   Nonresidential Invest. ...  506.5             514.6
   Residential Invest. ......  181.6             188.3
   Net Exports ..............  -46.5             -35.4
   Gov't Purchases ..........  820.2             807.9
                                                                                                       

   In the second quarter, the implicit price deflator rose to
4.4% of the 1982 average, from 4.8% in the previous quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chemical Banking Is Said to Withdraw
   From $4.38 Billion UAL Buy-Out Effort
   ----
   By Randall Smith and Judith Valente
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR WNEWS GE MHC CMB CCI BT CHL UAL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Chemical Banking Corp. has withdrawn as one of five lead
banks for the proposed $4.38 billion union-led buy-out of
United Airlines parent UAL Corp., according to people
familiar with the buy-out.
   Although Chemical's decision was described as temporary
and subject to change, it represents a potentially serious
blow to the union buy-out group as its attempt to arrange
financing intensifies less than two weeks before an Aug. 9
deadline.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In an interview, Gerald Greenwald, who would become
United's chairman if the buy-out is completed, said the group
is "close to" agreement to obtain additional debt financing
from some of United's aircraft and engine suppliers. He
wouldn't comment on Chemical's action, but predicted the bank
financing talks "will go all the way to the wire."
   A spokeswoman for Chemical wouldn't comment, saying, "We
don't comment on deals that are in negotiation." But the
decision was confirmed by two people familiar with the
transaction, including one banker.
   At the banks' insistence, the buy-out group has been
trying to obtain additional financing from other investors,
in the form of equity or subordinated debt. To do so, the
group has put the squeeze on United's suppliers, including
aircraft and engine manufacturers and airplane leasing
companies.
   The lack of extra equity investment so far was one of the
reasons for Chemical's decision, according to one person
familiar with the buy-out. One question that made Chemical
executives uncomfortable about participating, the same person
said, was "If this deal goes bad, who do the banks have to
deal with?"
   At the moment, the answer is the banks would have only Mr.
Greenwald and the leaders of United's pilots and machinists
unions, who are leading the attempted purchase, with the
flight attendants and noncontract employees also
participating. The group has also named several outside
directors. But Chemical was hoping for "equity from someone
who is a known quantity," the same person said.
   Chemical's withdrawal from the bank group comes in the
homestretch of negotiations over terms of a proposed bank
financing that would total roughly $4 billion. The other lead
banks are Bankers Trust New York Corp., Citicorp, Chase
Manhattan Corp., and Manufacturers Hanover Corp. Those four
banks also declined to comment.
   On July 7, the union group said all five banks would lead
the effort to place the bank financing, and were expected to
lend about $500 million apiece themselves. But the banks
hadn't signed any formal commitments at that point, nor had
they been paid the usual fee for the use of their names.
   One banker familiar with the bank talks said that
"although Chemical has dropped out temporarily," that won't
scuttle the financing effort. But even if Chemical rejoins,
its action could foster an image of a ragged, bumpy
enterprise that could undermine the confidence of other
potential investors.
   In the interview, Mr. Greenwald said that in recent days,
some of the banks have "moved from very active, to not
active, to quite active" in the talks. He also said in a
statement that the buy-out group "has been working with a
core group of banks to form a capital structure satisfactory
to those banks from a credit and syndication point of view.
There continues to be a number of significant issues to be
resolved."
   One person familiar with the buy-out said the group is
negotiating with Guinness Peat Aviation, an Irish aircraft
leasing company, and General Electric Co.'s General Electric
Capital Corp. about sale-leaseback transactions involving
United aircraft that would reduce the need for bank debt.
Officials of Guinness Peat couldn't be reached, and GE
Capital wouldn't comment.
   Unfortunately, Chemical's decision represents 11th-hour
slippage just when the unions need to demonstrate progress in
order to seek an extension of the Aug. 9 financing deadline
from the UAL board. The airline directors accepted the
$201-a-share union offer in early April only under threat of
a proxy fight at its annual meeting by Coniston Partners,
which holds 11.8% of UAL stock.
   However, the threat to United posed by Coniston has since
eased. Not only has the annual meeting date passed, but
Coniston itself has announced its intention to disband,
citing the difficulty in obtaining financing for takeovers
featuring heavy debt.
   The unions' effort to obtain financing for the buy-out has
been closely watched as a barometer of interest by banks in
making loans for leveraged buy-outs. In October, the unions'
failure to get bank financing for a costlier $6.79 billion
buy-out signaled the end of the 1980s heyday of leveraged
buy-outs. Since then, the market for such bank loans have
been weak, and many big banks have been under pressure to
trim their lending for highly leveraged transactions.
   If the union effort to take over United fails, it would
leave the airline facing potential labor woes because its
major unions are working without contracts negotiated with
UAL management, led by Chairman Stephen Wolf.
   The buy-out group yesterday released the names of two
other outside directors, Cummins Engine Co. Chairman Henry
Schacht, and General Motors Corp. Vice President Shirley
Young.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, July 27, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                               Stock    N.A.   Stock    %
   Fund Name                   Exch.   Value   Price   Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express               NYSE    18.85  16 1/8  -14.46
   Baker Fentress              NYSE    23.83  19 1/2  -18.17
   Blue Chip Value             NYSE     7.52   6 1/2  -13.56
   Clemente Global Gro         NYSE   b12.88  11 1/8  -13.63
   France Growth Fund          NYSE    11.36  10 1/8  -10.87
   Gemini II Capital           NYSE    15.39  12 1/2  -18.78
   Gemini II Income            NYSE     9.81  12 1/2  +27.42
   General Amer Invest         NYSE    24.28  20 1/8  -17.11
   Growth Stock Outlook        NYSE    10.45   9 5/8  - 7.89
   Liberty All-Star Eqty       NYSE     9.64   8      -17.01
   Niagara Share Corp.         NYSE    17.86  14 3/4  -17.41
   Nicholas-Applegate          NYSE    11.66  10 7/8  - 6.73
   Quest For Value Cap         NYSE    18.09  13      -28.14
   Quest For Value Inco        NYSE    11.61  13 1/2  +16.28
   Royce Value Trust           NYSE    10.45   9 3/8  -10.29
   Salomon Fd                  NYSE    15.02  12 1/2  -16.78
   Source Capital              NYSE    40.66  42      + 3.30
   Tri-Continental Corp.       NYSE    28.32  24      -15.25
   Worldwide Value             NYSE    19.49  16 1/2  -15.34
   Zweig Fund                  NYSE    10.93  11 1/4  + 2.93
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   Franklin Prin Mat Tr        NYSE    b8.05   9      +11.80
   Franklin Universal Tr       NYSE    b7.80   7 5/8  - 2.24
   Municipal High Inco         NYSE     9.42   9 3/8  - 0.48
   Zenix Income Fund           NYSE     6.40   6 1/8  - 4.30
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds

   America's All Seasn         OTC      5.93   4 5/8  -22.01
   European Warrant Fd         NYSE    11.01  10 5/8  - 3.50
   Franklin M-M Inco           NYSE    b8.89   8 1/8  - 8.61
   Zweig Total Return Fd       NYSE     9.24   9 1/4  + 0.11
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance Global Env Fd      NYSE    14.24  12 1/8  -14.85
   Alliance New Europe Fd      NYSE    12.37  10 5/8  -14.11
   American Capital Conv       NYSE    21.86  19 3/8  -11.37
   ASA Ltd                     NYSE  bc60.48  47 1/4  -21.88
   Asia Pacific                NYSE    17.39  14 7/8  -14.46
   Austria Fund                NYSE    17.23  13 3/4  -20.20
   Bancroft Convertible        AMEX    20.52  17 3/8  -15.33
   Bergstrom Capital           AMEX    64.71  63 5/8  - 1.68
   BGR Precious Metals         TOR   be11.09   9 1/2  -14.34
   Brazil                      NYSE    11.89  11 7/8  - 0.13
   CNV Holdings Capital        NYSE     9.89   5 1/8  -48.18
   CNV Holdings Income         NYSE     9.41  11      +16.90
   Castle Convertible          AMEX    21.40  18 1/2  -13.55
   Central Fund Canada         AMEX    b4.86  41 3/16 - 0.98
   Central Securities          AMEX    11.20   9 1/4  -17.41
   Chile Fund                  NYSE    16.20  17 1/4  + 6.48
   Couns Tandem Secs           NYSE    12.51  10      -20.06
   Cypress Fund                AMEX     9.90   9 3/8  - 5.30
   Duff&amp;Phelps Sel Utils       NYSE     8.04   8      - 0.50
   Ellsw Conv Gr&amp;Inc           AMEX     8.33   7 1/8  -14.47
   Emerging Ger Fd             NYSE    11.65  10 1/8  -13.09
   Engex                       AMEX    12.37   9 1/8  -26.23
   Europe Fund                 NYSE    14.93  13 5/8  - 8.74
   1stAustralia                AMEX    10.24   8 3/4  -14.55
   First Financial Fund        NYSE     6.34   6 1/2  + 2.52
   First Iberian               AMEX    11.64  11 1/2  - 1.20
   First Philippine Fund       NYSE    11.07   8 7/8  -19.83
   Future Germany Fund         NYSE    17.83  15      -15.87
   Germany Fund                NYSE    13.95  14 1/2  + 3.94
   Global Utilities Fund       NYSE    10.98   9 1/2  -13.48
   Growth Fund Spain           NYSE    13.02  11 1/4  -13.59
   GT Greater Europe Fd        NYSE    14.96  13 7/8  - 7.25
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv          NYSE    12.99  11 3/8  -12.43
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap        AMEX   b11.23   9 3/4  -13.18
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref       AMEX   b49.08  48 1/2  - 1.18
   India Growth Fund           NYSE   f14.78  18      +21.79
   Indonesia Fund              NYSE    15.23  14 5/8  - 3.97
   Inefficient Market Fund     AMEX    10.93  10 1/2  - 3.93
   Irish Investment Fd         NYSE    11.10   9 1/4  -16.67
   Italy Fund                  NYSE   b16.19  14 1/2  -10.44
   Jakarta Growth Fd           NYSE    10.98  11 1/2  + 4.74
   Japan OTC Equity Fund       NYSE    12.81  12 1/2  - 2.42
   Korea Fund                  NYSE    13.67  21 7/8  +60.02
   Malaysia Fund               NYSE    15.54  16 3/8  + 5.37
   Mexico Fund                 NYSE   b16.19  16 1/2  + 1.91
   Morgan Grenf SmCap          NYSE    11.31  10 1/8  -10.48
   New Germany Fund            NYSE    15.70  13 1/4  -15.61
   Pacific Eur Growth Fd       NYSE    11.68  11 7/8  + 1.67
   Patriot Prem Div Fd         NYSE     8.69  10 1/8  +16.51

   Patriot Select Div Trust    NYSE    13.95  15      + 7.53
   Petrol &amp; Resources          NYSE    32.03  29 3/8  - 8.29
   Pilgrim Regional            NYSE     8.52   8 1/8  - 4.64
   Putnam Dividend Inco        NYSE    10.05  10 1/2  + 4.48
   Portugal Fund               NYSE    13.65  14      + 2.56
   Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd       AMEX     6.38   5 7/8  - 7.92
   ROC Taiwan Fund             NYSE    10.34  10 3/4  + 3.97
   Scudder New Asia            NYSE    19.83  16 3/8  -17.42
   Scudder New Europe          NYSE    12.63  10 7/8  -13.90
   SE Savings Inst Fd          OTC     b7.47   6 1/2  -12.99
   Spain Fund                  NYSE    15.68  17      + 8.42
   Swiss Helvetia Fd           NYSE    15.11  14 1/8  - 6.52
   Taiwan Fund                 NYSE   b17.97  26 7/8  +49.55
   TCW Convertible Secs        NYSE    b7.92   8 1/2  + 7.32
   Templeton Em Mkts           AMEX   b17.37  18 1/4  + 5.07
   Templeton Global Util       AMEX    11.17  11 3/4  + 5.19
   Templeton Value Fund        NYSE   b10.32   9 1/2  - 7.95
   Thai Capital Fund           NYSE    11.65  11      - 5.58
   Thai Fund                   NYSE    24.43  24 1/4  - 0.74
   Turkish Inv Fund            NYSE    15.79  13 1/8  -16.88
   United Kingdom Fund         NYSE    11.97  10      -16.46
   Z-Seven                     OTC     14.13  14 5/8  + 3.50
                                                                                                       

   b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at Commercial Rand
exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of Wednes day's
close.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Aide to Reagan, Bush Is Subpoenaed
   In S&amp;L Inquiry, Says He Won't Appear
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A Senate subcommittee subpoenaed Robert
Thompson, a former aide to George Bush and Ronald Reagan, to
describe his role in the 1988 sale of 15 insolvent Texas
thrifts, but Mr. Thompson angrily said he won't appear.
   "I am not going to be part of this, what I consider a
circus atmosphere," Mr. Thompson said in an interview in
response to the subpoena from the Senate antitrust
subcommittee, a panel of the Judiciary Committee.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Thompson became a lobbyist after working in the early
1980s for Mr. Bush, who was then vice president, and
President Reagan. In 1988, he helped James Fail, an Arizona
insurance executive, buy the insolvent thrifts from the
Federal Savings &amp; Loan Insurance Corp. Mr. Thompson wrote
letters to Danny Wall, then the head of FSLIC's parent
agency, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, to facilitate Mr.
Fail's bid for the thrifts. Mr. Fail bought the thrifts and
merged them to form Bluebonnet Savings Bank.
   Sen. Howard Metzenbaum (D., Ohio) has alleged that the
government gave Mr. Fail a sweetheart deal and has raised
questions about why the thrifts were sold to him despite the
fact that one of Mr. Fail's insurance companies pleaded
guilty to securities fraud in Alabama in 1976. Sen.
Metzenbaum, the chairman of the subcommittee, hasn't charged
Mr. Fail or Mr. Thompson with any wrongdoing or suggested any
laws were broken.
   Mr. Thompson and his attorney, Stanley Brand, have
questioned the subcommittee's jurisdiction to conduct the
investigation and have complained that subcommittee
investigators have improperly sought confidential financial
records of Mr. Thompson. Mr. Thompson said he is willing to
testify before other committees that he argues have more
jurisdiction, such as the Senate Banking Committee.
   Meanwhile, a former Reagan budget official acknowledged
that ideology was behind the administration's refusal to hire
more savings-and-loan examiners in the 1980s, when the
industry was deregulated and investing in new ventures.
   Senate Banking Committee Democrats -- some under scrutiny
themselves for their ties to S&amp;Ls -- questioned Constance
Horner, formerly of the White House Office of Management and
Budget, about the wisdom of executing the Reagan policies.
   Ms. Horner, currently undersecretary at the Department of
Health and Human Services, was before the committee as a
nominee to a director's post at the National Cooperative Bank
-- a farm-credit agency unrelated to the S&amp;Ls.
   During her hearing on Friday, the committee repeatedly
pointed out that new S&amp;L examiners weren't hired at a
critical period, even though it wouldn't have cost the
government anything because industry fees pay the examiners'
salaries.
   Ms. Horner said she refused a request for more examiners
by Edwin Gray, former top thrift regulator, because of the
Reagan administration's philosophy. "I think the reason was
that we had a presidential policy to limit expansion within
the size of the federal work force," she told the committee.
   She said that Mr. Gray could have sought a review of her
decision, and added that he hadn't filled current vacant
examiners' jobs. Turnover in those jobs was high, she added,
because of low salaries. "It was, frankly, a rather technical
decision," she said.
   "You had the opportunity to say yes or no, and you said
no," admonished committee chairman Sen. Donald Riegle (D.,
Mich.), himself under scrutiny of the ethics panel for ties
to the S&amp;L industry.
   ---
   Paulette Thomas contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Some Neglected Stocks Find New Life
   ---
   Insurance, Food,
   Metal Groups Cited
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   CB MMC PD
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
ALUMINUM (ALU)
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
INSURANCE (INS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The pummeling of many growth stocks during
this current spate of earnings reports has been ugly to
behold. But not all money managers are aghast.
   Many companies whose stocks were beaten down long ago to
cheap multiples of annual per-share profit are surprising
investors with better-than-expected second-quarter earnings.
To see such "low P/E" industry groups as aluminum and
insurance earn more than analysts predicted is enough to
bring tears of joy to value investors' eyes. With earnings
expectations driving the stock market this year, these
forlorn owners of stocks that usually respond to healthy
economic growth have watched their portfolios lag the market,
while portfolios filled with blue-chip shares of
tried-and-true growth companies raced ahead.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now, however, the tables may be turning. Last Monday,
investors said enough to hyped-up earnings expectations and
took two steps back from the market. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average tumbled 105 points in about an hour, then recovered
to post a 56.44-point loss. There's no question that earnings
growth is still the stock market's motor. But what may be
changing is the kind of stocks investors are looking to for
growth.
   Whether money managers begin paring back positions in such
double-digit earnings growers as Coca-Cola and Wal-Mart
Stores and begin reaching down to cheaper, neglected shares
of slower-growing companies depends largely on their economic
outlook.
   Data released Friday morning showed the economy growing at
a annual rate of 1.2%. That report shook up the stock market,
contributing 22.28 points to the Dow industrials' loss of
62.63 points for the week. If anything, this
weaker-than-expected growth bolstered the convictions of
growth stock managers, who are betting that the companies in
which they own stakes will increase profits faster than those
whose fortunes are tied to the economic cycle.
   But economic growth between 1% and 2% is turning out
stronger-than-expected earnings in many neglected sectors of
the stock market. If the economy can sustain this
slow-but-steady pace, investors may begin to look at some
cheap stocks that are entering stronger earnings cycles.
   Copper and aluminum stocks, for example, which fall into
the nonferrous metals industry group, earned more in the
second quarter than analysts expected. "Better product
pricing is materializing despite economic weakness," said
Joseph J. McAlinden, director of research at Dillon, Read &amp;
Co. The coal industry also beat analysts' earnings
expectations.
   If the economy does slow further, some strategists think
the Federal Reserve will take its foot off the monetary
brakes and drive interest rates lower to avoid recession.
Reflation, as this policy is called in some quarters, is an
emerging theme in the stock market these days, possibly
because it's essential to the case of investors who foresee
stepped-up earnings growth for many cyclical companies.
   "To the extent that the Federal Reserve stimulates more,
you have tremendous upside potential" in cyclical shares,
said Stefan Abrams, chief investment strategist at Kidder,
Peabody &amp; Co. "Nobody is valuing these shares for reflation"
-- at least not yet.
   If the economy lapses into a recession, which many
strategists think is possible, high-flying growth stocks may
be hurt more than cyclical shares. For all their talk about
global earnings power, investors have been digging into
earnings reports to see how much came from the U.S. -- and
shivered. It was McDonald's disappointing performance in U.S.
stores that caused the stock to drop 12% in two days last
week. Meanwhile, many cyclical stocks are already trading at
prices that appear to anticipate a recession.
   Positive and negative earnings surprises reflect analysts'
exaggerated fears and hopes. So far in this period of profit
reports, negative earnings surprises, on average, were 61.6%
below the average estimate of at least three analysts.
Positive surprises averaged 28% better than the forecasts.
   Zacks Investment Research said the overall earnings
disappointment for the 750 companies that are in the Dow
Jones Equity Market Index was 4.5% in the second quarter,
compared with 3% in the first quarter. However, the number of
negative surprises dropped to 51.5% in the second quarter
from 54% in the first quarter, said Ben Zacks, executive vice
president.
   For a value investor, the trick is to find stocks that are
at the trough of their earnings cycle, just before results
start heading up again.
   Positive earnings surprises in aerospace, securities
brokers, and container makers don't reflect a profit
turnaround, analysts say. Defense contracts will get slimmer;
Wall Street is still weathering a drought in investment
banking fees, and the paper packaging industry can still
produce more than it can sell, analysts say.
   But the positive surprises in the insurance, nonferrous
metals, oil and food industry groups may portend accelerating
earnings growth.
   Life insurance firms seem headed toward higher earnings
again by cutting back on sales incentives and keeping more
investment income for themselves. "A value investor with some
degree of patience should be accumulating" insurance stocks,
said Denis Callaghan, managing director at Alex. Brown &amp;
Sons. Earnings aren't rising yet, he cautioned, but the rate
wars are over, and earnings should be climbing unmistakably
by late 1991. He recommends Chubb and Marsh &amp; McLennan.
   Earnings of food retailers should also be stable to
better, said Edward Comeau, analyst at Oppenheimer &amp; Co. "You
have a whole array of highly leveraged companies out there.
It is not in their best interest to get aggressive" and cut
prices, Mr. Comeau said.
   Among metals stocks, Phelps Dodge's second-quarter
earnings of $3.30 a share beat analysts' expectations by
nearly 15%. Analysts figured that slow economic growth would
drive the average price of copper below $1 a pound this year,
but prices have averaged above $1.
   "The economy is expanding fast enough to create an
environment where copper, aluminum and insurance companies
are able to raise prices," said Mr. McAlinden. Inflation
remains stuck between 4% and 5%, even though economic growth
is slow, because the unusually long eight-year expansion has
created shortages in labor and other resources, he added.
   Said Kidder's Mr. Abrams, "If investors come to believe
that we are in a recession, these {cyclical} stocks don't
have much downside {risk}, and they will be good performers
because step A is recession, and step B is reflation" by the
Fed.
   But without renewed inflation to help boost product
prices, many of these stocks may just muddle along with
mediocre earnings in a 1% to 2% growth economy, Mr. Abrams
cautioned. For now, he recommends that investors stick with a
portfolio that's two-thirds growth stocks. "For the very long
term, that's where the big money has always been made," he
said. "Sam Walton {chairman of Wal-Mart} didn't get rich
trading the cyclicals."
   ---
   Friday Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled 22.28 to 2898.51,
largely because of weaker-than-expected second-quarter
economic growth and increased recession fears. Volume on the
New York Stock Exchange was a moderate 149,070,000 shares.
   The industrial average's loss for the week, which started
with a 56-point drop Monday, was 62.63, or 2.1%. Standard &amp;
Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.3% for the week, while the Big
Board's composite index lost 2.2% and the Dow Jones Equity
Market Index dropped 2.4%. A steady stream of disappointing
second-quarter earnings reports was the main influence.
   Friday's preliminary report on second-quarter gross
national product -- the nation's output of goods and services
-- reinforced the notion that the economy may be slowing too
much. Investors were concerned not just because GNP growth
was less than consensus expectations -- 1.2% as opposed to
1.8% -- but also because the figure included a decline in
consumption and a rise in inventories. Many consumer stocks
were hit especially hard.
   Investors clearly are refocusing on how weak economic
growth might hurt profitability, rather than on how it might
lead to lower interest rates, which can help corporate
profits, said David Bostian, chief investment strategist at
Jesup, Josephthal.
   Walt Disney added to investors' anxiety about earnings.
The company's second-quarter profit rose 23%, which was
slightly lower than analysts' expectations. The stock dropped
5 to 116.
   McDonald's, which started the week with an
earnings-related sell-off, lost 7/8 to 31 3/4.
   Philip Morris continued to stumble on news earlier last
week suggesting tobacco companies aren't immune to
product-liability lawsuits. The stock fell 5/8 to 46 5/8.
   Wal-Mart Stores dropped 1 to 31 5/8. Elsewhere in the
consumer sector, Anheuser-Busch dropped 1 1/2 to 42 3/8;
Johnson &amp; Johnson fell 1 to 72 3/8; Procter &amp; Gamble slid 3/4
to 86 1/8; Woolworth lost 3/4 to 31 1/2, and Toys "R" Us fell
1 3/8 to 29 3/8.
   International Business Machines fell 1 3/4 to 111 3/8.
SoundView Financial Group downgraded the stock's investment
rating to "sell" from "hold" and lowered its 1991 earnings
estimate, saying it expects IBM will have problems making the
transition to a new line of mainframe computers in the fourth
quarter.
   Other technology issues also declined: Compaq Computer
fell 2 1/8 to 55 3/4; Digital Equipment lost 1 1/4 to 74 7/8;
Unisys slid 3/4 to 11 1/8; Cray Research slipped 7/8 to 43;
and Hewlett-Packard fell 5/8 to 44 1/8.
   Oil stocks, on the other hand, generally held firm amid
news that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
agreed on a target price of $21 a barrel, up from $18, for
crude oil. Exxon rose 3/8 to 49 1/4, Chevron rose 1/4 to 77
1/4, and Amoco rose 7/8 to 54 1/4.
   Dividend-related trades swelled volume in the two most
active Big Board issues: Merrill Lynch, which fell 1/8 to 23
1/2 on 3.2 million shares, and Citicorp, which declined 1/2
to 20 3/8 on 2.9 million shares.
   Boeing advanced 1/8 to 59 1/4 on a better-than-expected
earnings report.
   Mylan Laboratories skidded 2 1/2 to 19, extending its
slide in the wake of a weaker-than-expected quarterly
earnings report.
   Pfizer added 1/4 to 74 3/8 on news that a Food and Drug
Administration panel set a tentative date for review of
Sertraline, the company's anti-depressant drug.
   Northrop fell 1 3/8 to 14 1/8 amid reports of a Justice
Department recommendation that the company be barred from
making weapons for the U.S. military. Northrop has pleaded
guilty to fraud charges.
   Grumman gained 3/4 to 15 1/2 on a report that the company
expects to report strong quarterly earnings.
   Milton Roy advanced 1 3/4 to 28 5/8 after its board agreed
to hold discussions with Sundstrand, which holds a 15% stake
in the company and has offered $28 a share for the rest.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index slid 0.84
to 355.49, extending its loss for the week to 1.4%.
   Air &amp; Water Technologies Class A tumbled 3 1/8 to 24 3/4.
Alex. Brown &amp; Sons and Kidder Peabody both lowered investment
ratings and cut earnings estimates on the company's 83%-owned
Metcalf &amp; Eddy unit. On the over-the-counter market, Metcalf
&amp; Eddy fell 5 1/2 to 20 1/2.
   ---
              Earnings Surprises by Industry
                                                                                                       

   Top positive and negative earnings surprises -- the
percentage difference between actual earnings from continuing
operations and analysts' average estimated earnings -- among
the Dow Jones industry groups for the second quarter 1990.
                                                                                                       

   Coal                               58  %
   Insurance                          30
   Security brokers                   14.7
   Air freight                        14
   Aerospace/Defense                  11.8
   Nonferrous metals                   8.4
   Containers/Packaging                6.6
   Oil service                         5.2
   Oil integrated                      4.8
   Food retail/wholesale               4.6
   Financial services                  2.9
   DJ Equity Index                  -  4.5%
   Semiconductors                   -  9.4
   Heavy machinery                  - 10
   Lodging                          - 10.5
   Chemicals                        - 13.1
   Entertainment/Leisure            - 15
   Media                            - 18.3
   Banks*                           - 18.3
   Trucking                         - 23.5
   Transport equipment              - 24
   Software                         - 27
   Steel                            - 40
   Savings/Loans*                   -104
                                                                                                       

   *Includes loan loss provisions
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West German Wholesale Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Sales of West German
wholesalers in June declined a real, or price-adjusted, 4%
from a year earlier and 5% in nominal or unadjusted terms,
the Federal Statistics Office said.
   June wholesale sales were valued at 73 billion marks
($44.9 billion). The agency didn't supply comparable
year-earlier figures. The monthly decline was viewed as
surprising because wholesale sales were expected to be buoyed
by the July 1 monetary and economic union of the two
Germanys.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first half, wholesale sales rose 2% in both nominal
and adjusted terms to 437 billion marks, the statistics
office said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Jobless Rate Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France's unemployment rate edged up to a
seasonally adjusted 9.4% of the work force in June from 9.3%
in May but was down from the year-earlier level of 9.5%, the
Labor Ministry announced.
   The figures come at a time of growing concern about the
reliability of the ministry's labor statistics. The National
Statistics Institute recently suggested that they
substantially overestimate the jobless rate. Labor Minister
Jean-Pierre Soisson said he plans to launch a study of the
problem to make the data more indicative of underlying
economic trends.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   In South Africa, Communists' Pact
   With ANC Comes Under Pressure
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   SOWETO, South Africa -- With a giant hammer and sickle
flag looming behind him, Nelson Mandela sought to move his
African National Congress out from the shadow of communism.
   "The ANC is not a communist party," he told 35,000 people
gathered at a rally yesterday celebrating the re-emergence of
the South African Communist Party, or SACP, after 40 years of
being banned. Nor, he added, does the ANC "espouse Marxist
ideology." Nevertheless, Mr. Mandela said his black
liberation movement will continue to fight for the Communist
Party's right to exist and for the right "of any South
African to adhere to Marxist ideology if that is his wish."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Mandela's speech was a deft attempt to embrace the
fellowship of the Communist Party while stepping back from
its ideology. Pretoria has long accused the ANC of being
communist puppets, and this week the ANC-Communist Party
alliance was fraught with unease over police allegations of a
communist plot to seize power if the current negotiations
between the ANC and the government fail. President F.W. de
Klerk even asked Mr. Mandela to drop Communist Party chief
Joe Slovo from the ANC's negotiating team.
   But Mr. Mandela said the anti-apartheid alliance, forged
decades ago when both the ANC and the communists were being
hounded into exile by the government, would continue; for
instance, the new SACP leadership committee, which was
announced at the rally, contains eight people who are also
members of the ANC's top decision-making body. At the same
time, though, Mr. Mandela stressed that the organizations
remained independent of each other.
   "The Communist Party is and has been a dependable friend
who has respected our views and independence," he said. It
"has never sought to transform the ANC into a tool and puppet
of the Communist Party."
   Mr. Mandela dismissed the allegations of a communist plot
for armed insurrection as "anti-communist hysteria" and
accused the government of throwing obstacles in the way of
the negotiations, which are scheduled to resume Aug. 6 in
Pretoria. He said, "Comrade Joe Slovo is an old friend."
   Still, the negotiation process, and the liberalization of
South Africa's political debate, has highlighted strains in
the ANC-Communist Party alliance. Since the government lifted
the ban on them and all other opposition parties in February,
both organizations have been working to transform themselves
from liberation movements into political parties. While
holding together the alliance, the ANC and the SACP are also
trying to carve out separate identities and sign up members
from the same pool of supporters.
   While other communist parties around the world are reeling
from a loss of credibility and popularity, South Africa's
version continues to draw wide support, particularly among
blacks. Much of its popularity comes from its alliance with
the ANC, and, ironically, from its image as the most-feared
bogeyman of the whites. "Since we were founded in 1921, we
were {the government's} public enemy No. 1," Mr. Slovo said.
"For the {black} youths and workers, that made us public
friend No. 1."
   Yesterday's rally brought an outpouring of red hammer and
sickle flags and rhetoric of the working-class struggle. "The
politics of the working class are now firmly stamped on the
future of the country," shouted Jay Naidoo, the general
secretary of the Congress of South African Trade Unions, the
largest black labor federation. Said Cheryl Carolus, a youth
leader and a member of the party's leadership committee:
"Today we can stand up and proudly say, `We are communists.'"
   The collapse of Marxism in Eastern Europe hasn't damped
the South African Communist Party's enthusiasm for socialism.
Mr. Slovo proudly accepts the whites' fear of his party.
"They fear socialism," he said. "They fear us even more than
the devil."
   Mr. Naidoo said socialism is the only way to overcome the
inequities of apartheid, the government's system of racial
segregation. "Apartheid has been proven to be the most brutal
and inhuman form of capitalism the world has ever seen," he
said.
   With the unmasking of the leadership committee, the
government now knows what it is up against. Included among
the 22 members are Chris Hani, the ANC's chief of military
operations, and several top trade unionists. The committee
members have spent a combined 137 years in prison; one of
them, Mac Maharaj, who is also a top ANC leader, was just
arrested last week in connection with the recent police
allegations of a communist plot. Ironically, the Communist
Party leadership received a police escort to yesterday's
rally.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pinnacle West
   Takes Action
   To Help Utility
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PNW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Pinnacle West Capital Corp. cut the
quarterly dividends it takes from its Arizona Public Service
unit to $42.5 million from $52.7 million, in an effort to
help shore up the finances of the utility unit.
   The action comes one month after Pinnacle West, burdened
by heavy debt, unveiled a plan to reduce sharply capital
outlays and operating expenditures at Arizona Public Service.
Pinnacle West has said it plans to pay about $600 million of
debt by year-end 1993, with $200 million of that to be paid
this year. At March 31, Pinnacle West had $1.13 billion of
its own long-term debt; the consolidated total, including
debt of the utility, was $3.53 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I think it was prudent to do it, particularly with the
reduced earnings levels at APS," Richard Snell, Pinnacle
West's chairman and chief executive officer, said of the
dividend cut. "At some point, it allows APS to start reducing
some of its own debt." Last year, the utility unit paid more
to the parent company than it earned, "and it appears the
situation would have been the same this year," a company
spokesman added.
   The dividend cut means that Pinnacle West will now receive
only $170 million annually from Arizona Public Service
instead of the previous $211 million a year. Still, the
utility holding company insists the cut will have little
impact on its debt repayment efforts. Pinnacle West plans to
make up the difference with proceeds from the pending $38
million sale of its Malapai Resources Co. uranium mining
unit, plus positive cash flow from its SunCor Development Co.
and Eldorado Investment Co. units. Since March, Pinnacle West
has paid down about $115 million of its debt.
   "In developing a schedule for debt repayment, we
anticipated lower dividends from APS," Mr. Snell said. "For
that reason, we do not plan to reduce the rate of our debt
repayments, nor will the dividend reduction impact our
projections of increased equity in the company or our hope of
restoring a dividend to Pinnacle West shareholders by
year-end 1993." Pinnacle West suspended its 40-cent-a-share
common stock dividend in October in the face of mounting
losses from its MeraBank thrift unit, which was seized by
federal regulators in January.
   Separately, Pinnacle West's board voted to eliminate the
annual $10,000 cash retainer paid to each board member.
Instead, directors will receive options to buy 3,500 Pinnacle
West common shares for $16.25 each, the market price as of
July 2. The company said it expects to pay directors with
stock options through mid-1993.
   PacifiCorp, Portland, Ore., which has made an unsolicited
$1.82 billion takeover offer for Pinnacle West, didn't have
any comment on Pinnacle West's actions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   McDonnell Douglas Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MD
</CO>
<LP>
   MCDONNELL DOUGLAS Corp. (St. Louis) -- Jim Dorrenbacher,
62 years old, formerly president of the aerospace company's
McDonnell Douglas Space Systems Co. unit, was named senior
vice president, group executive responsible for McDonnell
Douglas' non-aerospace operations. He succeeds James T.
McMillan, 65, who will retire Aug. 31. Kenneth A. Francis,
56, formerly executive vice president of McDonnell Douglas
Space Systems, was named president of that unit. The
appointments are effective Sept. 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Warner-Lambert Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS WLA
</CO>
<LP>
   WARNER-LAMBERT Co. (Morris Plains, N.J.) -- Rhonda L.
Brooks was named vice president, marketing and sales, a new
post in the environmental polymers division of this maker of
health-care and consumer products. She will assume
responsibility for market development of Novon, a naturally
decomposing material. She was previously general manager of
medical systems at General Electric Co., the
financial-services, broadcasting, and aerospace giant in
Fairfield, Conn.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Halperin's Return to Comex Signals Exchange's
   Inward-Looking Era After Staloff Resignation
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   David Halperin, named president of New York's Commodity
Exchange less than two weeks ago, has the job of turning a
would-be butterfly into a caterpillar, according to some
members of the exchange.
   The butterfly was supposed to come out of the cocoon spun
last August when Arnold Staloff was hired with much fanfare
as president of the Comex. He had been head of new product
development and marketing at the Philadelphia Stock Exchange,
where he led the development of currency options. The idea
was for Mr. Staloff to produce a string of new contracts that
would reinvigorate an exchange whose volume depends on gold,
silver and copper.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Staloff resigned May 1. During his tenure no new
products were listed, though one of his creations, a vehicle
known as a gold participation contract, will be sent next
week to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for
approval. The butterfly's wings were clipped, it is widely
believed in the New York futures community, because Mr.
Staloff was ill-prepared to negotiate the highly political
waters of the Comex.
   Mr. Halperin, who was an executive vice president at the
Comex before Mr. Staloff's appointment, left the exchange to
take a similar position at the New York Mercantile Exchange
shortly after he lost the top job to Mr. Staloff.
   "I only had to fill two shopping bags and walk about 80
feet down the hall," says Mr. Halperin, 47 years old, about
his most recent move from the New York Merc back to the
Comex. But there is, according to some traders, a world of
difference between the busy, expanding Merc and the Comex,
which has barely grown in the past five years.
   Comex prides itself on being the world's largest metal
exchange, but its trading volume in futures and options
increased only 12% from 1985 through 1989. That minuscule
rise includes several periods during which the copper market
was extremely active. During the same five years, the New
York Merc's volume jumped 390%, and trading on all U.S.
futures exchanges increased by 80%.
   Mr. Halperin says he isn't troubled by volume. "A few
weeks ago, people were saying the gold market was dead. Then
we get a little shakeout in the stock market and volume picks
up to 50,000 to 60,000 contracts a day," he notes.
   What is important, he says, is that he expects the Comex
to earn a profit of $6 million to $8 million this year. He
says that trading volume is significantly above the
exchange's break-even point.
   For over a year the Comex and the Merc have held talks
exploring merger of the two exchanges. Mr. Halperin was
closely involved in the talks when he was a vice president at
the Comex and at the Merc, and at both exchanges he was
viewed as a strong advocate of a merger.
   One Merc official asserts Mr. Halperin's return to the
Comex strongly indicates that he believes a merger is
unlikely. But Mr. Halperin says that a merger is no threat to
his job security. "Because of my knowledge of both
institutions it wouldn't be difficult for me to work out my
position in a combined organization," he says.
   One Comex floor trader says he believes the probability of
a successful merger is no more than 50%. Mr. Staloff, the
former Comex president, says regardless who is president, "a
merger will depend upon convincing 25 or 30 influential
members at both exchanges that it is a good idea." He adds
that those people are not necessarily on the exchanges'
boards.
   Mr. Halperin's career has been concerned mostly with
financial, administrative and operational matters. Now he
must try to find new products that will appeal both to floor
traders and the investing public. He says the Comex's board
has recently approved the idea of trading gold contracts with
super-long maturities of as much as five years -- currently,
futures are listed as far out as 23 months -- and he adds the
board is also looking at gold options with only five-day
lives.
   Mr. Staloff says that as long as the metal markets remain
active, the exchange is viable. But, he adds, "I don't know
how any exchange can survive with products in only one area."
He notes that the Philadelphia exchange has thrived by
expanding from a base in stocks into options on stocks and
currencies. But Mr. Staloff cautions that launching new
products is never easy.
   Several members of the Comex say the exchange is entering
a new inward-looking era and that Mr. Halperin is the right
person for the presidency. One floor trader and former Comex
board member notes, "He is a superb administrator and he
won't shake up anything."
   But Mr. Halperin says the Comex will continue to look for
new products, and adds, "I don't view the death of the
Moody's {Investment Service corporate} bond contract and the
low volume of the aluminum contract as failures. The reality
of new products is that only one in 20 succeed. If you can't
deal with the contracts that don't succeed you can't reap the
rewards {of those that do}."
   He cites the perseverance that the New York Merc has had
with its energy contracts as an object lesson for the Comex.
"By not being afraid of failure, they succeeded," he says.
Recalling that the Comex's fortunes used to be tied to rubber
and hides, he observes, "If we had stuck with them we
wouldn't be trading anything today."
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   Crude oil prices are expected to remain stable in coming
weeks. The sharp swings both downward and upward are expected
to halt based on the new OPEC accord, which set a total
production quota of 22.5 million barrels until the price for
major OPEC crudes reaches $21 a barrel. Although the former
quota was lower by 400,000 barrels, less oil will actually be
produced if all cartel members adhere to their new
allocations.
   Crude prices will likely edge up in coming months as
winter demand for fuel begins to come into play and
burgeoning global inventories are whittled down. There was
little price reaction to the accord of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries Friday because the agreement
"came out as advertised," says Ted Eck, chief economist for
Amoco Corp. Gasoline prices, however, have climbed in recent
days as supplies of the car fuel in the Northeast tightened.
Analysts and traders say that the number of gasoline cargoes
from Europe have declined as demand for the fuel there picked
up.
                                                                                                       

   Grains and Soybeans
                                                                                                       

   Rain forecast for much of the Corn Belt over the weekend
just ended is likely to keep futures prices from mounting any
sustained rallies this week, analysts say. Rumored increases
in demand in the form of export orders may fuel brief
rallies, but they will be more than outweighed by the
prospect for bountiful U.S. supplies of grains and soybeans
at harvest time.
   Soybean futures prices jumped Thursday on rumors that the
Soviet Union would use a portion of the proceeds from planned
diamond sales to increase its imports of soybean meal and
corn. But prices retreated Friday under pressure from the wet
weather forecasts.
   Besides, the Russian diamond sales ought to be viewed as a
longer-term negative for the commodity markets, says Daniel
Markey, president of Agri Analysis, Chicago. "It's a sign of
desperation. If they have to sell diamonds to buy grain at
these prices, how are they going to be able to afford our
grain at higher prices?" Mr. Markey says.
                                                                                                       

   Copper
                                                                                                       

   Futures prices rose last week, particularly Friday. The
September contract closed three cents a pound higher at
$1.2590, and most months rose to new life-of-contract highs.
However, as visible supplies of copper mounted, some analysts
questioned whether the gains can be sustained.
   Technical considerations appeared to outweigh fundamentals
Friday. For example, traders actively bought contracts when
the September contract rose above $1.2450. In the process,
they ignored increases in exchange warehouse supplies and a
report of weak economic growth in the second quarter.
   London Metal Exchange copper stocks Friday rose 17,225
tons to 84,975 tons and Commodity Exchange supplies were up
653 tons to 13,088 tons. The London exchange increase was
about as expected, but over the past three weeks these stocks
have risen 41,000 tons, a significant quantity.
   The U.S. gross national product rose 1.2% in the second
quarter, below expectations and down from a 1.7% rise in the
first quarter. Also a negative for copper demand was that the
GNP increase for 1989 was revised down to 2.5% from 3%.
   The Mineroperu mine strike in Peru, which began Thursday,
is about 50% effective, and a settlement is expected this
week. According to one analyst, "There is generally an
optimistic view of the strike because of the cooperative tone
of the talks."
   If the technical strength in futures continues to prevail,
the analyst says, September futures could rise to as high as
$1.29 a pound, which would be an important resistance level.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Liz Claiborne to Lift Standard Discount
   To Stores to 10% on Women's Apparel
   ----
   By Teri Agins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   LIZC CHS LES
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Liz Claiborne Inc. will raise its standard
discount to stores on its shipments of women's apparel in a
move calculated to earn the good will of department store
retailers -- and additional market share.
   Liz Claiborne, already the dominant women's wear resource
in most of the nation's department stores, said it will
increase the discount to 10% from 8% to "help our retail
partners overcome some of the increased costs of business . .
. in a way that does not increase prices to consumers." The
company said it will absorb the additional discount through
cost cutting and the anticipated gains in market share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The discount will apply to spring shipments that will
arrive in stores later this year. It affects about 70% of Liz
Claiborne's total business and excludes men's apparel,
cosmetics and accessories.
   As a rule, apparel makers give retailers an 8% discount on
merchandise providing that bills are paid within the first 10
days of the month following delivery.
   Deborah Bronston, an apparel analyst at Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc., estimated the discount will cost Liz
Claiborne about $25 million in annual earnings. But Ms.
Bronston stressed that because the company will absorb most
of the additional expense through cost cutting, "they can do
this without impacting their earnings while looking like a
greater hero to their retail customers."
   Industry experts generally praised the move, predicting
that it will give the apparel maker a competitive edge. The
discount "will be the shoehorn that will insure a very smooth
cash flow, because they know they will now get paid first,"
said Alan Millstein, a New York retail industry consultant.
   But industry experts believe that few of Liz Claiborne's
rivals will follow suit. On Friday, Bernard Chaus Inc. and
Leslie Fay Cos. said that they wouldn't match the discount.
Many small and medium-sized apparel makers, which are already
under pressure from retailers that consistently dispute their
bills and pay them late, are even less likely to match the
discount.
   "There aren't a helluva lot of resources who can afford to
do this," said Lee Abraham, chairman of Associated
Merchandising Corp., a New York buying office and consultant
for many department stores.
   The big department store chains, which have been plagued
by eroding profit margins as retail sales remain sluggish,
also reacted enthusiastically to the news.
   "I'm certain this type of opportunity for our company will
cause us to buy more from Liz Claiborne," said James
Zimmerman, president and chief operating officer of Federated
Department Stores Inc. and Allied Stores Corp., which have
been operating under Chapter 11 bankruptcy law protection
since last January. David C. Farrell, chairman of May
Department Stores, termed the decision "excellent" and "very
constructive."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Maidenform Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MAIDENFORM Inc. (New York) -- This closely held lingerie
maker named Elizabeth J. Coleman chairman, succeeding her
recently deceased mother, Beatrice Coleman. Elizabeth Coleman
is a partner in the Atlanta-based law firm of Stroup &amp;
Coleman. She was previously Maidenform's vice chairman.
Robert A. Brawer, president, assumes the additional post of
chief executive officer previously held by Beatrice Coleman.
David C. Masket, executive vice president, was named to the
additional new post of chief operating officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Entergy Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ETR
</CO>
<LP>
   ENTERGY Corp.(New Orleans) -- Adm. Kinnaird R. McKee, 60
years old, retired director of Navy nuclear propulsion, was
elected a director of this utility holding company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   THEODORE H. TUNG is chief economist of National City Corp.
in Cleveland. He was incorrectly identified in last Monday's
edition.
   (See: "The Outlook: Midwest States Show Surprising Pep" --
WSJ July 23, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Futures Officials Say Tougher Stance
   By Regulators Could Have Saved Stotler
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SG
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The collapse of Stotler &amp; Co., one of the
country's largest futures brokerage firms, might have been
prevented if regulators had challenged a questionable
inter-company funds transfer that Stotler reported at least
four months ago, futures industry officials say.
   The months of inaction by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and the Chicago Board of Trade are more surprising
as both contend they had been closely monitoring Stotler's
financial health for more than a year because of concerns
about its thin capital base and rapid growth.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A senior CFTC staff member conceded in an interview that
the federal regulator should have known in March about an
unusual inter-company transfer of $13.4 million between
Stotler and its parent, Stotler Group Inc. When the agency
apparently did disallow all but $500,000 of the transfer in
mid-July, it triggered the chain of events that quickly
forced Stotler from the futures business last week for lack
of capital.
   "Maybe we should've found it sooner, I don't know," the
CFTC staffer said.
   In the CFTC's defense, the staffer noted that the transfer
"related to an obscure portion of their financial
statements."
   Stotler disclosed the $13.4 million transfer of assets and
liabilities, including short-term bank loans, under the
heading "Other Transactions with Affiliates" on page eight of
the company's 1989 audited financial statements sent to the
CFTC in late March. The transfer is also noted in a glossy
pamphlet highlighting its finances that Stotler sent
customers. Stotler officials have refused to comment on the
firm's financial condition beyond brief prepared statements.
   The fall of Stotler, whose chairman, Karsten "Cash"
Mahlmann, is also chairman of the Board of Trade, is likely
to strengthen calls on Capitol Hill for tougher regulation of
the futures industry. Futures regulators have been under fire
for their lax oversight since early last year, when a federal
undercover probe of futures trading run by the U.S.
Attorney's office led to indictments of 48 individuals on
charges of stealing from customers.
   In addition, it was an audit of Stotler &amp; Co. by the
Securities and Exchange Commission that raised questions
about the funds transfer and that attracted the attention of
the CFTC and the Board of Trade, regulators said. The CFTC
and the SEC have been locked in a jurisdictional battle over
the regulation of stock-index futures and their impact on
stock-market volatility.
   The SEC has been especially alert to transfers between a
trading unit and its corporate parent since such
eleventh-hour capital shifts speeded the collapse of Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc. earlier this year, regulators said.
   Mr. Mahlmann may be pressured to relinquish the exchange
chairmanship by Board of Trade members. Many of them
speculate privately that the exchange didn't move earlier
against Stotler out of deference to its influential chairman.
   "Why didn't we know about this? Why didn't we do anything
about this?" asked an exchange director. Mr. Mahlmann hasn't
returned calls for comment.
   Exchange directors aren't the only ones who have been kept
in the dark about Stotler's problems. Last week Stotler
Group's three outside directors, who weren't involved in the
management of the company, resigned as directors. They
decided to quit after being excluded from any discussions
with management in recent weeks as the troubled company
scrambled to keep afloat, said one of the directors, who
asked not to be named.
   "All we know is what we read in the papers," the director
said. The outside directors are John Dolkart, a Chicago
attorney, Timothy Mather, a Colorado businessman and Fausto
Solano Pereira, the head of a Brazilian company that is in a
joint venture with a Stotler unit. None of the three could be
reached for comment.
   In defense of their own regulatory actions, Board of Trade
officials note that the exchange had fined Stotler several
times for temporary violations of capital rules. Partly
because of these problems, the company had been filing
monthly reports on its financial condition to the CFTC for
more than a year.
   The CFTC staffer said regulators were also monitoring
Stotler's poor earnings performance and Stotler Group's
reliance on $11 million in short-term commercial paper to
finance its growth.
   Regulators won't say what specifically led the SEC to
examine Stotler &amp; Co.'s books, or what attracted its
attention to the $13.4 million funds transfer. Included in
the transfer was an undisclosed amount of short-term bank
loans for which Stotler &amp; Co. remained liable if they
couldn't be paid by the parent. The finding was shared with
the CFTC, which has regulatory authority over the futures
brokerage firm.
   On July 10 the CFTC told Stotler that, with the transfer
unwound, it wasn't meeting industry minimum capital
requirements. The Board of Trade delivered the same message
shortly thereafter.
   Futures industry regulations require firms that clear and
guarantee customer trades to maintain a capital cushion equal
to at least 4% of customer-segregated funds, or be forced out
of the business. Restrictions begin to be put on a company's
activities when its capital falls to 7% of customer funds.
   Stotler disputed the regulatory treatment of its capital
and prepared two reports showing its reading of its capital
position vs. that of the regulators. The reports, dated July
13, show that according to Stotler, it had net capital of
$20.6 million, or $9.5 million more than its minimum
requirements, at the end of May.
   But the report compiled after regulators removed $12.9
million of the $13.4 million funds transfer from Stotler &amp;
Co's readily available capital category showed the firm with
just $7.7 million in capital, or $3.4 million less than its
regulatory minimum.
   After a last-ditch effort to line up a capital infusion of
$10 million from a Taiwanese investor fell through last week,
Stotler Group said it was pulling out of the futures
brokerage business and had defaulted on $750,000 in
short-term commercial paper obligations. The company
indicated it may not be able to make $7.6 million in debt
payments due in 30 days without refinancing the debt or
selling assets.
   No Stotler &amp; Co. customers have lost money as a result of
its financial difficulties, the company said. In a frantic
attempt to shift accounts off its books and thereby reduce
the capital cushion it needed to support those accounts,
Stotler by last week had transferred two-thirds of its
accounts, or nearly $200 million in customer funds, to other
brokerage firms. The effort was too little, too late, and
Stotler said it would have to exit the futures brokerage
business. The rest of the accounts are expected to be
transferred within days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Thorn EMI PLC:
   Results Seen Weak for Half
   But Strong for Fiscal Year
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.THN
</CO>
<LP>
   Thorn EMI PLC of Britain, a music, home-appliance rental
and lighting concern, is being hurt by soft domestic consumer
demand and stiff competition in some product areas world-wide
and expects weak first-half earnings, Colin Southgate,
chairman and chief executive officer, said.
   But Mr. Southgate told shareholders at the annual meeting
that Thorn should show improved earnings for fiscal 1991. For
the year ended March 31, Thorn had pretax profit of #318
million ($576.9 million), up 9.8% from a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thorn has been selling interests that it considers to be
outside its mainstream businesses. Thorn recently said it is
holding talks to sell its Holophane S.A. pressed glass
subsidiary and in May said it was negotiating the sale of its
lighting unit to GTE Corp., Stamford, Conn.
   Both of Thorn's two main businesses, recorded music and
appliance rentals, "are performing well on a world-wide basis
and in line with plan," Mr. Southgate said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   f
 As World Trade Talks Recess, Officials
   Have Yet to Tackle Many Tough Issues
   ----
   By John T. Norman
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Until now, the world trade negotiations
involving 105 nations in Geneva have been uneventful.
   And negotiators, working under a Dec. 3 deadline, haven't
yet tackled the many issues concerning the future shape of
the world's trading system.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Instead, in Geneva and elsewhere, officials of major
trading nations and others have been playing what Arthur
Dunkel, the director-general of the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade calls a game of "hide-and-seek."
   At the conclusion of a meeting of trade negotiators
Thursday, Mr. Dunkel warned that such tactics pose a serious
risk that the Uruguay Round of world trade talks, launched in
Uruguay nearly four years ago, might fail.
   "None of us can afford the disruption in the flow of
goods, services and investment that failure would entail,"
said the former Swiss diplomat, who isn't given to
exaggerated comments on trade issues.
   "We must," he said, "have a radically changed and more
urgent approach to the task before us."
   The reports of negotiating groups in many different
sectors of the trade talks represent a "compendium of
positions, rather than draft agreements," Mr. Dunkel told
high-level representatives of GATT member countries, in
proposing a series of deadlines for resolving differences
over the next four months.
   There are, said Mr. Dunkel, only about 15 "working weeks"
remaining to wrap up agreements on a new set of international
trade rules covering agriculture, services, textiles, GATT
disputes-settlement mechanisms and many other issues.
   By late September or early October, the most ambitious
effort since the end of World War II to write new
international trade rules may have to be scaled back in order
for trade ministers to proclaim the Uruguay Round a "success"
late this year.
   In Geneva last week, there had appeared to be a strong and
growing sense of frustration about the current state of
affairs in the Uruguay Round talks, yet not enough
hand-wringing to upset the traditional August vacations of
government officials in many countries.
   The U.S., the European Community and other participants in
the world trade talks are slated to resume negotiations in
the week of Aug. 27 on the toughest unresolved problem,
agricultural reforms. But a senior U.S. official predicted
the "big fight" on that could come in Geneva during the month
of September.
   Without an agreement on agriculture, involving commitments
by the industrial nations to reduce their farm-export
subsidies and open markets, the prospects are that many other
commodity-exporting countries will conclude that the Uruguay
Round was a failure.
   Some representatives of developing nations had anticipated
that this "big fight" would take place last week in Geneva,
with hard bargaining and "real results." Rubens Ricupero, of
Brazil, complained that last week's meeting in Geneva was
largely a waste of time, with delegates representing Third
World nations having "nothing to do but stand around."
   Despite the uncertain prospects for the world trade talks,
some veterans in the international trade bureaucracy say it
isn't unusual for the situation to look pretty grim several
months before the wind-up of such negotiations.
   Almost everything will fall in place, they predict, in the
last few weeks of the negotiations in Geneva or during the
windup meeting of trade ministers in Brussels in early
December.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Acquisition
   Of Semi-Gas Systems
   Is Approved by Bush
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NSN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush endorsed a plan for Nippon
Sanso K.K. to acquire Semi-Gas Systems Inc., the leading U.S.
producer of high-purity gas systems, with certain conditions
for protecting sensitive, semiconductor research.
   Mr. Bush acted on the recommendation of an eight-agency
panel that examines the national-security implications of
foreign purchases of U.S. firms. The sale has yet to be
cleared by the Justice Department, which investigates
antitrust matters. Nippon Sanso already commands a major
share of the global market for gas distribution systems used
for semiconductor manufacturing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An administration official said Nippon Sanso will be
required to isolate itself from the work being performed by
five Semi-Gas technicians at Sematech, a U.S.-financed
consortium established to help the U.S. industry catch up
with Japanese semiconductor technology. These technicians
will report to a separate corporation governed by a board
made up of U.S. citizens, including one to be nominated by
Sematech.
   A voting trust will be set up to separate Nippon Sanso
from the Sematech operation, and Semi-Gas will be required to
provide a secure area for the protection of Sematech
documents, the U.S. official said. The plan also calls for
sanctions against the Japanese acquirer if it violates these
security precautions.
   Mr. Bush acted in the face of strong objections by House
Majority Leader Richard Gephardt and other House Democrats.
In a letter sent to the president, the lawmakers claimed that
the sale, along with earlier acquisitions, would reduce the
share of U.S.-owned, high-purity gas producers in the U.S.
market to 20% from about 72% in 1988.
   Sematech had appealed to the White House to delay its
decision so that Semi-Gas executives could try to raise
enough money to match Nippon Sanso's bid to buy the firm from
its parent company, Hercules Inc., Wilmington, Del. A
Sematech spokesman said the Semi-Gas group's bid was $5
million less than Nippon Sanso's $23 million offer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook --
   Economic Roadblock:
   Infrastructure Neglect
   ----
   By Alfred L. Malabre Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Infrastructure.
   The word hardly rolls off the tongue or grabs headlines.
It's far more arresting to warn in big black letters of a
budget or trade deficit than of an infrastructure deficit.
Not so very long ago dictionaries that carried the word
infrastructure at all defined it -- to quote from a 1961
edition of Webster's -- as a term for "permanent bases or
supporting installations for military purposes."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   No longer. Nowadays defined as the physical system behind
such basic services as transportation, waste disposal and
water resources, the word is gaining considerable attention,
at least among economists and policy makers concerned about
the nation's lackluster productivity performance. They call
the condition of the infrastructure America's "third"
deficit, after trade and the budget, and they greatly fear
that this deficit can only worsen, placing an increasing
burden on an economy already struggling to expand in healthy
fashion.
   The link between productivity and investment in a nation's
infrastructure is apparent, among other places, in data
compiled by David A. Aschauer, senior economist of the
Chicago Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   In a recent 20-year period, he notes, the annual growth of
productivity in the U.S. was a dismal 0.6%, compared to 1.8%
in Britain, 2.3% in France, 2.4% in West Germany and 3% in
Japan. Meanwhile, he adds, nonmilitary public investment
averaged only 0.3% of national output in the U.S., against
rates of 1.8% in Britain, 2% in France, 2.5% in West Germany
and 5.1% in Japan.
                                                                                                       

   The Fed economist attributes "as much as 60% of the
productivity slump" in the U.S. to "neglect of our core
infrastructure," by which he means streets and highways, mass
transit, airports, water and sewer systems and electrical and
gas facilities.
   Notwithstanding the apparent link between infrastructure
and productivity, President Bush's budget for fiscal 1991
"suggests that infrastructure is not a priority for this
administration," says Peggy L. Cuciti, a researcher at the
University of Colorado's Center for Public-Private Sector
Cooperation.
   She notes that the budget includes $43.8 billion for
nonmilitary physical capital, or about the same amount,
adjusted for inflation, that was spent in 1979, even though
the economy has grown some 40% since then. The 1991
infrastructure outlay comes to 3.6% of all proposed spending,
she adds, sharply below the 1979 rate of 5.3%.
   Since "the first theme of the president's budget is
investing in our future, one might expect that infrastructure
programs would fare well," Ms. Cuciti remarks, "but they
clearly do not."
                                                                                                       

   It's no help that most infrastructure spending is
undertaken at state and local levels where, as Donald H.
Strazheim, chief economist of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., observes,
"governments are increasingly strapped for funds and awash in
red ink." The combined operating deficit for state and local
governments is running at a record annual rate of about $45
billion and "is likely to get worse before it gets better,"
the economist adds.
                                                                                                       

   In the Bush administration's fiscal 1991 budget, grants to
state and local governments for infrastructure projects
amount to 23% less than in 1979, after adjusting for
inflation. Not suprisingly, state and local officials
"express considerable anger and sarcasm about national
policy," says Alan Alshuler, director of Harvard University's
Center for State and Local Government. As many as 18 states
have raised their gasoline taxes so far this year, he adds,
and "some of the increases were by quite large amounts."
   The deteriorating condition of the U.S. infrastructure is
amply documented. After a recent three-year study, the
National Council on Public Works Improvement concluded that
"if our public works were graded on an academic scale, their
recent performance would earn a scant C."
   The Federal Highway Administration has estimated that 23%
of the nation's 575,000 bridges are structurally deficient
and more than 25% of interstate roadway has deteriorated.
Meanwhile, more than a third of the country's solid-waste
landfills are expected to be exhausted by 1993 and due to
airport congestion airplanes are delayed an average of 2,000
hours daily.
                                                                                                       

   Such developments, it should be added, can complicate
gauging with precision the effect of a neglected
infrastructure on the economy. For example, if poor roads
cause traffic jams and overburdened airports cause arriving
aircraft to be delayed, it's likely that more gasoline will
be consumed and more overtime paid. This will tend, at least
in the short run, to increase the gross national product. But
it hardly represents a desirable economic trend.

   With such measurement difficulties, it's no surprise that
economists disagree over the exact relationship between the
state of the infrastructure and productivity gains. Some
analysts maintain, for instance, that Mr. Aschauer's estimate
is too high and that far less than 60% of the nation's
productivity slowdown can be traced to neglect of the
infrastructure.
   There is, however, wide agreement on the larger issue
that, for a healthy economy as the new decade unfolds, the
infrastructure deserves far greater attention than it has
received of late. Unfortunately, with the budget so deep in
red ink, the likelihood is for continuing neglect.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Is U.S. Horse Breeding Losing Its edge?
   ---
   Foreign Money Dominates
   Thoroughbred Market
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5A
</SO>
<LP>
   LEXINGTON, Ky. -- In the cool shade of a maple tree, the
man in blue Nike sneakers eyes the chestnut horse, one of
champion Secretariat's last fillies.
   Nearby, the horse's owner, Tom Gentry, paces nervously.
The horse breeder, who has sought protection from his
creditors through Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law proceedings,
hopes this guy isn't just window-shopping. Much like a
candidate seeking office, Mr. Gentry offers the visitor's
entourage free calculators, yardsticks and watches. A
farmhand mingles, bearing a round of yellow slushy drinks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Southern hospitality counts here -- the visitor is Sheik
Hamdan bin Rashid al Maktoum, Dubai's minister of finance and
industry, whose oil-rich family spends millions for
thoroughbreds. "They control the market," Mr. Gentry says.
"Without them, where would we be?"
   Foreign money now dominates the thoroughbred market, as
seen at Keeneland's July selected yearlings sale, the
premiere thoroughbred auction. On the first two days last
week, foreign buyers purchased 116 horses for about $51
million, more than half the $82.4 million total sold.
   While the beleaguered thoroughbred market welcomes these
buyers, the foreign spending spree sparks concern that the
Bluegrass State could lose its crown as the thoroughbred
capital of the world. "There will be a day when Japanese
horses will be like Japanese cars," predicts Patrick Barbe,
the agent who buys horses for the Yoshida family, prominent
Japanese horse breeders. "There's already a Toyota factory in
Kentucky. There may be Japanese stallions standing here soon,
too."
   Seven groups of Japanese buyers bought horses at
Keeneland, with Tomonori Tsurumaki spending $4.9 million for
two colts. Mr. Tsurumaki, the developer of Autopolis, a
Japanese leisure center built around an auto racetrack,
outbid D. Wayne Lukas, the leading U.S. horse trainer, on
both horses.
   Some U.S. breeders scoff at the notion that the U.S. will
ever lose its edge in this industry, although England and
Ireland both turn out some high-quality thoroughbreds. It
isn't like assembling cars or televisions, they suggest:
There's no place like central Kentucky and its home-grown
stock to produce champions.
   But many aren't so confident, with the industry still
recovering from a serious fall in prices from its peak in
1984. Prices last week were off 41% from six years ago and
11% from last year's sale.
   Keeneland's sales director, W.B. Rogers Beasley Jr.,
misses the U.S. buyers from the Southwest who had money to
spend during the oil boom of the early 1980s. "When that
dried up, we lost a tremendous source of revenue," he says.
Then changes in the tax laws didn't help much either. "The
Americans are here at the sales, but they haven't been
spending," he says.
   New signs of a weakening economy, such as the troubled
real estate market, could prompt even more U.S. buyers to
drop out. "I'm worried about the overall condition of the
economy. It's very soft," says C. Timothy Cone, president of
Fasig-Tipton Co., which hosts New York's Saratoga sale next
week.
   One signal, he says, is an increase in loans outstanding
at Fasig-Tipton's finance company. Buyers choose that
financing route when banks tighten their collateral
requirements and spending on horse loans. "If the banks draw
in further, that will shorten the money supply at the sales,"
Mr. Cone says.
   In addition, the tax law changes of 1986 took away much of
the passive-investment advantage of owning a horse.
   John T.L. Jones Jr., owner of Walmac Farm in Lexington,
says: "Horses are bought with discretionary income. People
just don't have it."
   That's not true, of course, if your family happens to
control a country in the Persian Gulf -- or if you're a
billionaire Japanese industrialist. Eager to woo such buyers,
Fasig-Tipton and Keeneland officials have made numerous trips
to Japan and elsewhere this year to promote and advertise the
summer and fall thoroughbred sales.
   Keeneland this summer translated portions of its sales
catalog, as well as requests for credit or seats in the sales
arena, into Arabic, French and Japanese. Fasig-Tipton next
week will provide chauffeurs and interpreters for Japanese
buyers at the Saratoga sales.
   At the Keeneland select sales, the Maktoums enjoy their
royal status in a private room, cloistered from the common
folk in the sales arena. Keeneland assigns a bid spotter to
the room so they can vie for horses without being seen by
others -- fitting treatment considering they forked over
about $427.4 million between 1980 and 1989 at the summer
horse sales, not to mention the private buying done outside
the auction rings or at other sales.
   In the first two days of the Keeneland sale, the Maktoums
spent about $33.6 million for 63 horses.
   Even though they're not visible, the tote board quickly
shows which horses the Maktoums want. The price on the first
horse in the Keeneland ring, a bay filly by Danzig, a leading
sire, quickly soared to $700,000. The buyer: Sheik Hamdan's
Shadwell Estate Co.
   Japanese buyers are becoming more interested and
aggressive. "The economy in Japan is good, and racing is very
popular," says Teruya Yoshida, who breeds horses with his
father. "If a horse is worth $5 million, we'll pay it."
   Last year, the Yoshidas bought the highest-priced yearling
of 1989 when they paid $2.8 million for a son of Northern
Dancer, a champion stallion. The colt, Northern Park, is in
training and should race in September, Mr. Barbe says.
   On the opening day of the sales, the crowd was silent when
horse No. 136 entered the ring and a bidding war erupted
between the Maktoums and Yoshidas. In the end, the Maktoums
prevailed and paid $1,050,000 for the bay colt.
   Some U.S. buyers say there are plenty of horses to go
around and that they're happy to pick up the leftovers.
Besides, they too eventually sell their stock to foreign
buyers. Allen E. Paulson, chairman and chief executive
officer of Gulfstream Aerospace, is happy to see so many
Japanese buyers at this year's sales. For the first time,
he's a seller rather than just a buyer of yearlings. "Foreign
people are wealthier than Americans, so it's healthy to see
them here," he says.
   Carl Icahn, best known for his spending spree on USX Corp.
stock, is another buyer who's undaunted by the competition.
Mr. Icahn's stables have swelled to 200 horses from just 10
three years ago, says Rob Whiteley, director of Foxfield, Mr.
Icahn's horse operations.
   Foreign buyers "look for the best and pay for the best,"
Mr. Whiteley says. "But there are still a lot a notch below
that." Mr. Icahn sold several yearlings to the Maktoums last
year at Saratoga.
   And some U.S. buyers prove they can keep up with the
Maktoums. Despite their keen interest and bidding for Mr.
Gentry's filly, the Maktoums didn't get her. Mr. Lukas was
the high bidder, paying $2.1 million, the highest price paid
for a filly at the sale.
   He suggests that one day the foreign buyers will stop
showing up for the sales. "The Arabs will feel saturated at
some point," he says. Many of the best bloodlines are now in
Europe and England, where the Maktoums and others have farms.
Eventually, those buyers "won't have to come to our markets
to establish themselves," says Dan Galbreath, owner of Darby
Dan farm in Lexington.
   That would mark a return to the days before World War II,
when the best breeds came from European farms. "I'd hate to
think the world's best horses won't continue to be in the
U.S. But it's possible," says Preston Madden, a Lexington
horse breeder. "At least we're performing our patriotic duty
in Kentucky and creating a more favorable balance of trade."
   ---
                    Off and Running
                                                                                                       

   Foreign expenditures at the Keeneland July selected sale,
in millions of dollars
                                                                                                       

                   GROSS      FOREIGN        % OF
         YEAR      REVENUE    EXPENDITURE    GROSS
                                                                                                       


         1989       101.3       60.7         59.9
         1988        97.8       53.1         54.2
         1987       109.5       56.6         51.7
         1986       104.5       61.0         58.4
         1985       138.6       70.3         50.7
         1984       166.3      103.9         62.5
         1983       148.0       96.0         64.9
         1982        96.4       58.6         60.7
         1981        89.4       39.5         44.2
         1980        57.7       25.3         43.8
                                                                                                       

         TOTALS  $1,191.9     $676.0         56.7%
                                                                                                       

   Source: The Thoroughbred Times.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Live Entertainment Inc.:
   Revolving Credit Agreement
   With Two Banks Is Signed
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   LVE
</CO>
<LP>
   Live Entertainment Inc., an entertainment software
supplier, distributor and retailer based in Van Nuys, Calif.,
said it signed a $100 million revolving credit agreement with
Credit Lyonnais Bank Nederland and Chemical Bank.
   The agreement, which runs through Jan. 2, 1992, is an
amendment to the company's $50 million credit facility with
Credit Lyonnais. Under the increased credit line, Credit
Lyonnais and Chemical will provide $60 million, and $40
million is expected to be provided by a group of U.S. and
overseas banks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The credit line will be used for working capital by Live
Entertainment and its Live Home Video Inc. subsidiary.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Lewis Galoob Toys Inc.:
   Company Reports Net Loss
   For Quarter as Sales Plunge
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   GAL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lewis Galoob Toys Inc. reported a second quarter net loss
of $8.3 million, or 89 cents a share. Sales plunged 49% to
$28.4 million from $56 million a year earlier.
   In the year-earlier quarter, Lewis Galoob had net income
of $4.7 million, or 49 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The loss came on the heels of a $1.4 million first-quarter
loss and reflects general sluggishness in the toy industry
and problems in certain product lines, among other things.
   A federal court three weeks ago issued a preliminary
injunction halting sales of the San Francisco-based company's
new Game Genie video game. The order stemmed from a suit
brought by Nintendo of America Inc., a unit of Japan's
Nintendo Co., charging Lewis Galoob with copyright
infringement.
   For the six months, Lewis Galoob had a net loss of $9.8
million, or $1.05 a share, on sales of $61.6 million. In the
year-ago period, the company had profit of $7.1 million, or
74 cents a share, on sales of $93.6 million.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, Lewis
Galoob closed unchanged at $4.375.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   July Jobs Report Isn't Expected to Budge
   Economic Forecasts Out of the Basement
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The July jobs report -- the first official
reading on the third quarter isn't likely to budge economic
forecasts out of the basement.
   Many economists began knocking down third-quarter growth
estimates to the lowest single digit after Friday's report
that real gross national product limped along at an annual
rate of 1.2% in the second quarter, after adjusting for
inflation. The payroll employment report, scheduled for
release Friday, and the July purchasing managers' index, to
be posted Wednesday, are expected to reflect continued
economic anemia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most of the week's other reports round out June data. The
calendar includes June personal income and personal
consumption, leading economic indicators, construction
spending, manufacturing orders and shipments. Other coming
July statistics include agricultural prices and auto sales.
   The economy "looked like it might be caving in in the
second quarter," Allen Sinai, chief economist at Boston Co.,
said. He expects the employment and purchasers' data "to
collateralize" the weakness. What's more, Mr. Sinai says he
believes inflation is still entrenched, raising the specter
of "stagflation."
   Mr. Sinai expects that about 85,000 new jobs were added to
non-farm payrolls in July, after taking into account the loss
of many temporary census workers. Factory jobs probably
dropped 15,000 to 20,000, he estimated. "That kind of
employment report would suggest real GNP between flat and 1%
growth" for the third quarter, he said.
   The consensus view is somewhat firmer, calling for job
creation of about 120,000 positions after accounting for
census workers, according to MMS International, a unit of
McGraw-Hill Inc., New York. Factory payrolls are thought to
have dropped by about 10,000, for an overall unemployment
rate of 5.3%, compared with 5.2% in June. Overall in June,
about 97,000 jobs were created, while manufacturing payrolls
shrank by 27,000.
   Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Manhattan Bank,
shaded his third-quarter outlook lower after Friday's GNP
report. Now he expects a growth rate between 1% and 1.5%,
compared with the 1.5% he saw earlier. "It's not recession,
but we're skating on thin ice here," he said.
   Economists are keeping a close eye on the manufacturing
sector, which recently began to grow modestly. It seems much
of the factory activity in the second quarter stemmed from
inventory-building. Now the question is whether those
inventoried goods will be purchased, generating further
demand, or whether stockpiled goods will languish.
   The July purchasing agents' index, which gauges
manufacturing demand, is expected to weigh in at 50.8%, down
a bit from 51.1% in June. A reading exceeding 50% suggests a
manufacturing economy that is generally expanding, and a
level below 50% suggests contraction.
   The government's main forecasting gauge, the
leading-indicators index, is expected to be unchanged for
June after a 0.8% gain in May. Stock prices,
sensitive-materials costs, building permits and vendor
performance are expected to contribute positively to the
11-component index. But weak durable-goods orders and
declining consumer sentiment are thought to have offset gains
in other segments.
   June personal income and consumption data, to be released
today, are expected to be firmer than those for May. The
consensus view calls for income to have risen 0.4%, compared
with the 0.3% increase in May. Consumption is expected to
have risen 0.7%, largely because of a pickup in auto sales in
June after a flat May reading.
   The construction industry is expected to show continued
weakness. June construction spending is likely to have
dropped for the third consecutive month, with the consensus
expecting a decline of 0.6%. May construction outlays were
off 4%.
   ---
                Closely Watched Reports
                                                                                                       

      Statistics Released in the Week Ended July 27
                                                                                                       

                                               CHANGE
                                               (from prior
                                TOTAL           period)
                                                                                                       

 Money Supply
                                                                                                       

   M1 -- Week ended
   July 16 (in billions)       $807.9          - $2.6
                                                                                                       

   M2 -- Week ended
   July 16 (in billions)     $3,273.7          - $0.3
                                                                                                       

   M3 -- Week ended
   July 16 (in billions)     $4,051.6          - $6.4
                                                                                                       

   Real GNP

   annual rate
   (in trillions)              $4,163          + 1.2%
                                                                                                       

   Durable goods orders
   June (in billions)         $124.69          - 3.2%
                                                                                                       

   Auto sales
   Mid-July total
   vs. year ago               191,779          -13.3%
                                                                                                       

           Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

   Personal Income (Mon.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   Personal consumption
   (Mon.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   New home sales (Tues.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   Agricultural prices (Tues.)
   July
                                                                                                       

   Leading indicators index
   (Wed.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   Construction spending
   (Wed.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   Purchasing Managers' index
   (Wed.)
   July
                                                                                                       

   Manufacturing orders
   (Thurs.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   Manufacturing shipments
   (Thurs.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   Money supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   Employment, payroll (Fri.)
   July
                                                                                                       

   Unemployment rate (Fri.)
   July
                                                                                                       

   Auto sales (Fri.)
   July
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Banks Cut Commercial Paper Borrowing
   ----
   By Robert Guenther and Tom Herman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI MIDL
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- As investors grow more nervous about the
banking industry's health, many banks are cutting back their
borrowing in the commercial paper market.
   While banks apparently have been able to line up alternate
sources of money without disruption, the fact that the
world's largest market for short-term money is less
hospitable to some banks is another sign of the increasingly
difficult environment banks are facing, analysts say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Commercial paper, which plays a relatively minor role in
bank funding, is basically an unsecured corporate IOU that is
supposed to be repaid within a short period of time,
typically before 90 days. The popularity of commercial paper
issued by corporations to meet short-term borrowing needs
surged in the 1980s; currently, more than $550 billion of
commercial paper from all types of borrowers is outstanding.
   Money market mutual funds are the biggest holders; by some
estimates, money funds hold about 40% of the total amount
outstanding.
   But many banks increasingly are concerned that sales of
commercial paper could dry up on short notice, leaving them
scrambling to raise funds elsewhere. That danger has
increased, analysts say, as credit-rating agencies have
downgraded the ratings on many banks' debt. "Commercial paper
buyers can cut and run at any time," says Joseph Spalluto,
senior vice president for fixed-income sales at Keefe,
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc., a securities firm.
   "Banks are reducing their dependence on commercial paper,
and one reason is a major buyer of commercial paper -- the
money market funds -- are limiting their purchases" to
top-rated paper, says Stephen W. Joynt, executive managing
director at Fitch Investors Service Inc., a rating agency.
Even among top-rated commercial paper, money funds are being
"more selective" about what they buy, he adds.
   Citicorp, which had its debt rating downgraded by Moody's
Investors Service Inc. this spring, cut its average
commercial paper borrowings in the first quarter 30% to about
$6.9 billion from $9.9 billion a year earlier. The U.S.'s
biggest banking company says it has gathered more consumer
deposits, usually a cheaper source of funding, to reduce its
appetite for commercial paper.
   Edison, N.J.-based Midlantic Corp. has sliced its
commercial paper borrowing to $170 million from a peak of
about $225 million. Donald Ebbert, a senior vice president,
says, "We are very clearly trying to reduce our commercial
paper outstandings to zero over the next 60 days."
   Privately, banking regulators, including the Federal
Reserve, have encouraged banks to reduce commercial paper
borrowings, according to individuals close to banks, in favor
of longer-term and less-volatile sources of money like
consumer deposits or the sale of long-term bonds.
   The movement away from commercial paper is part of a
broader trend among banks in favor of longer-term funding
that can't disappear on short notice and of keeping greater
amounts of cash on hand.
   In January 1989, the Federal Reserve quietly stopped
publishing data on banks' commercial paper outstanding.
However, in December 1988, bank commercial paper outstanding
stood at $44.4 billion. According to statistics compiled by
Moody's, commercial paper outstanding among a group of the
U.S.'s largest banks fell to about $22.7 billion at the end
of March from $30.8 billion a year earlier.
   Banks issue commercial paper at the parent holding-company
level, not the bank, usually to fund nonbank subsidiaries.
Bank commercial paper isn't covered by federal deposit
insurance.
   Commercial paper defaults are rare, but when they hit,
they can send shock waves throughout the financial markets.
Many investors still recall vividly the financial wreck in
1970 of Penn Central Transportation Co. The company ran out
of cash and defaulted on its commercial paper borrowings,
frightening many investors away from the market.
   Prices have also been a factor in some banks' retreat from
the commercial paper market. Since March, when banks reported
generally poor results, the differential in commercial paper
rates paid by top-rated banks and lower-rated banks has
widened to 0.30 percentage point. That compares to a 0.15
differential between top-rated and lower-rated industrial
issuers. This is a sign that lower-rated banks are having
more difficulty raising funds cheaply in the paper market.
   Indeed, says Mr. Spalluto of Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods, "The
concerns of the commercial paper market are filtering over to
longer-term debt issues. People are keenly aware of the role
that commercial paper plays in liquidity."
   So far, banks have been able replace their commercial
paper borrowings by several means. Midlantic has agreed to
sell its leasing subsidiary, thereby eliminating its need for
commercial paper. Others, like Baltimore-based MNC Financial
Corp., have bundled portfolios of credit-card loans into
securities that were sold, thereby reducing the amount of
assets that need funding.
   Depositors of beleaguered savings and loan associations
apparently have been a source of replacement funding. Federal
Reserve figures show that in 1989, time deposits of less than
$100,000 at commercial banks grew 17.7%, far faster than
other types of bank liabilities.
   Nevertheless, banks like Citicorp don't intend to drop out
of the commercial paper market entirely. "We like to keep our
options open," said a spokesman. Commercial paper provides
banks with a quick source of relatively inexpensive funds.
Top-rated Banc One Corp. earlier this year sold $700 million
in commercial paper without any snags to fund its acquisition
of a Texas bank. Banc One, based in Columbus, Ohio, has since
replaced the paper with long-term funding through sales of
stock and bonds.
   George R.L. Meiling, Banc One's treasurer, said:
"Commercial paper is an accordion that expands and contracts
with our needs. We use it as filler to tide us over lumps in
funding."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Coast Savings Financial Inc.:
   California Investor Acquires
   6.4% of Stock Outstanding
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   CSA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Theodore H. Kruttschnitt, a Burlingame, Calif., investor,
said he acquired a 6.4% stake in Coast Savings Financial
Inc.'s common stock outstanding.
   In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Mr.
Kruttschnitt said he holds 976,400 Coast Savings common
shares, all bought May 23 to July 20 for $5.38 to $7.38
apiece.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Kruttschnitt said he acquired the stock as an
investment, indicating that he may purchase more shares as an
investment.
   Coast Savings, Los Angeles, is one of several large West
Coast thrifts that has had big losses lately from
deteriorating real estate markets. The company had a loss of
$28.7 million, or $1.89 a share, in the second quarter.
   Neither Coast Savings nor Mr. Kruttschnitt could be
reached to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Scandalous Ads Convert Rejection
   By Networks Into Free Publicity
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   NRCX F.EUC CCB HMC F CARL AEGSY
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   This is the last time you will read about a No Excuses
jeans spokesmodel in this column. We promise.
   No Excuses, of course, is the company that has gotten
massive amounts of publicity by hiring notorious celebrities
to star in commercials. Last week, Donald Trump companion
Marla Maples, the latest spokes-celebrity, made headlines
when two major networks turned down her No Excuses
commercial.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The funny thing is, No Excuses hadn't bought any network
ad time in the first place. It couldn't afford to if it
wanted to. The stunt was a textbook case of advertising
flackery, of media manipulation.
   The Maples ploy is old hat to ad types, but here's the
primer for civilians: No Excuses started with an impossibly
puny ad budget, created a controversial commercial that it
couldn't afford to air with any frequency on the major
networks anyway, then used the shock value of the networks'
rejection to get free publicity.
   And the fact is, the stunt worked. New York's Newsday, a
major metropolitan daily, ran a full-color picture of the ad
on its front page. Almost every TV station in the land,
including some that rejected the ad, aired it on the nightly
news. As George Lois, whose Lois/GGK ad agency created the
commercial, says candidly, "If we don't run one commercial,
it still looks like we spent $50 million. How do you buy this
publicity we're talking about?"
   Neil Cole, president of No Excuses maker New Retail
Concepts, agrees. He says No Excuses spends just $500,000 a
year on broadcast time. That's about enough to buy one and a
half 30-second spots on "The Cosby Show." Without the free
publicity, "I would be lost in a jungle of TV advertising,"
he says.
   Mr. Cole says the Maples ad is actually going to air,
although on some inexpensive local and cable stations rather
than network. Even so, with his tiny budget, it won't air
much -- and depending on how much publicity he can milk out
of the trumpeted "network rejections," it may air even less.
   The reason: No Excuses is waiting to buy air time until
this week, he says, so it can assess how much publicity was
attracted. The more publicity, the less air time it will buy,
Mr. Cole explains pragmatically. "We won't have to spend {as
much} money now, and we can make a little more money this
quarter for the shareholders," he says.
   While he readily concedes to publicity-mongering, Mr. Cole
insists the commercial wasn't created just so the networks
could reject it. He knew full well, though, that "if it gets
rejected, we'll do that much better" in the publicity
department.
   And when the rejections did come in, he didn't leave
anything to chance. No Excuses promptly flooded every major
media outlet with news releases proclaiming that all three
networks had turned down the ad. The commercial was deemed
offensive because it stars Ms. Maples telling the world to
clean up the environment -- and she starts by dumping in the
trash the National Enquirer and the Star, two tabloids that
have given her a particularly hard time about "The Donald."
That kind of name-calling is a no-no on network TV. The media
loved the story; the publicity blitz followed.
   But the news release made some people very angry --
especially at ABC, which, contrary to the news release's
claims, never rejected the ad. It never even reviewed it,
since No Excuses hadn't bought any air time. When ABC pressed
the jeans company about its ad-spending plans, the company
provided the network with a letter saying only that it
"intended" to buy time, says Harvey Dzodin, who heads the
network's standards and practices department.
   "We aren't a charity," Mr. Dzodin sniffs. He adds, "To me,
these guys have no excuses for what they've done, other than
knowing they were getting some cheap publicity."
   Mr. Lois, for his part, says he doesn't consider the stunt
manipulative. After all, he reasons, "the media loves it and
are looking for it." Perhaps he has a point.
   Certainly, in these days of ever-shrinking ad budgets,
creating scandalous commercials that will never air -- or
that appear only occasionally on some obscure cable channel
-- is becoming ever more common. "I invented this kind of
stuff," proclaims Mr. Lois, a man not known in the ad
business for modesty. "There are certain accounts where maybe
the budget is half a million dollars, and you want to get
national exposure. So you take advantage of popular culture,
and you feed the gossip mill and the real need for human
beings for gossip about famous people."
   Several ad agencies have made a living out of creating
scandalous commercials almost purely for their publicity
value. One of the veterans, Della Femina McNamee, a few years
back came up with a Lifestyles condom campaign with the tag
line, "I enjoy sex, but I'm not ready to die for it," largely
with publicity and network-rejection-value in mind. It needed
the publicity boost: the client's ad budget was even punier
than that of No Excuses.
   "Many a time I've asked the local network censor for their
approval of a commercial, and I hold my breath hoping they
say no," says Jerry Della Femina, the agency's chairman.
"What if they said yes? What would I do then? I wouldn't have
the money to run it. The networks don't understand that the
way they can kill us is to give us our way."
   There doesn't seem to be any danger of that any time soon,
though, so the publicity piles up for clients who have almost
no ad budget and even less intention of spending it. After
all, the trick works. Among the scores of newspapers and TV
stations dutifully reporting this past May that No Excuses
signed up Marla Maples was, we must admit, The Wall Street
Journal.
   ---
   Carl's Jr. Stays at DFM
                                                                                                       

   Carl Karcher Enterprises abruptly halted the review of its
$20 million Carl's Jr. ad account and said the account will
continue to be serviced at Della Femina, McNamee's Los
Angeles office.
   A spokeswoman for the agency, a unit of Eurocom S.A., said
Friday that "the review . . . has been postponed
indefinitely." The move followed the departure of two senior
marketing executives, Bob Wisely and Patricia Rowell, who
were instrumental in reviewing the account.
   The review of the big restaurant account, announced in
June, sparked the interest of nearly every major agency in
Los Angeles.
   The spokeswoman said the firm has begun to look for a new
vice president of marketing. In the meantime, Joseph Olin, a
Della Femina executive who works on the account, has been
enlisted to assist with marketing duties at the firm's
headquarters in Anaheim, Calif.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   PGA BOYCOTT: American Honda Motor and Lincoln-Mercury are
the latest to cancel TV ads scheduled to air during
broadcasts of a golf tournament to be held at an all-white
country club in Alabama, according to the Associated Press.
Those advertisers join IBM, Toyota Motor and Anheuser-Busch,
all of which have changed plans to advertise on the ABC and
ESPN telecasts of the Professional Golfers Association
tournament, scheduled to begin Aug. 9. Officials at Shoal
Creek country club in Birmingham have said the club doesn't
have bylaws discriminating against would-be members based on
race.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Citizens First Bancorp Inc.:
   Loss Totaling $34.5 Million
   Is Reported for 2nd Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CFB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Citizens First Bancorp Inc., Glen Rock, N.J., reported a
$34.5 million second-quarter loss and predicted a $15 million
to $17 million deficit for the year because of a large
increase in its reserve for possible losses on bad loans.
   The quarterly loss equals $1.61 a share. It had net income
of $9.2 million, or 43 cents a share, a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For all of 1989, the banking concern earned $37.2 million,
or $1.73 a share. Citizens expects to return to profitability
in 1991, Chairman Richard G. Kelley said.
   The $70 million increase in the loan-loss reserve was
required after a routine examination by the comptroller of
the currency, Mr. Kelley said.
   "The increasingly stringent regulatory banking environment
nationwide is now penetrating our region, requiring banks to
add to loan-loss reserves because of the widespread downturn
in the real estate industry," he said. But Mr. Kelley
described Citizens' loan portfolio and cash flows as "very
strong."
   In American Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Citizens closed at $8.75, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sharon Steel Corp.:
   Accord Is Set on Payment
   With Posner and His Firms
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   SSH DWG PEC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sharon Steel Corp. said it reached agreement in principle
with Victor Posner, a Miami financier, and companies he
controls calling for those companies to pay Sharon $7.5
million.
   Mr. Posner formerly controlled Sharon Steel, which now is
operating under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code.
The agreement is subject to approval by the U.S. Bankruptcy
Court for the western district of Pennsylvania.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreements will settle all of the disputes and claims
between Sharon Steel, based in Sharon, Pa., and DWG Corp.,
NVF Co., Pennsylvania Engineering Corp. and Mr. Posner, said
F.E. Agnew III, trustee of Sharon Steel. Mr. Posner, who
controls DWG, NVF and Pennsylvania Engineering, couldn't be
reached for comment.
   A trustee appointed to manage Sharon in January 1988 and
his successor, Mr. Agnew, filed a number of suits and claims
against Mr. Posner and companies he controls involving
alleged excess compensation paid to Mr. Posner by Sharon,
alleged use of Sharon's funds for personal use and other
matters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Landsing Pacific Fund:
   California Investment Trust
   Adopts Poison-Pill Proposal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   LPF
</CO>
<LP>
   Landsing Pacific Fund said its board adopted a stock
rights offering plan, in part to "prevent abusive takeover
tactics."
   Landsing, a Menlo Park, Calif., real estate investment
trust, said the so-called poison pill plan wasn't in response
to any specific takeover effort, but acknowledged that it
recently received "an unfinanced expression of interest" in a
possibile acquisition.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Landsing didn't elaborate and didn't disclose the
interested party; however, a group including Independent
Holdings Inc. said in June that it raised its stake in
Landsing to 6.25% and that it might seek to enter discussions
with management over the direction of the company. The rights
offering would make any unwanted takeover bid much more
expensive. Independent Holdings couldn't be reached to
comment.
   In American Stock Exchange trading Friday, Landsing closed
at $8.125, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senate Hearings on Souter
   Are Set to Begin Sept. 13
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5B
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Judiciary Committee set Sept. 13
as the start of the hearings on the nomination of Judge David
Souter for the U.S. Supreme Court.
   That makes it unlikely that Judge Souter, if confirmed by
the Senate, would be sworn in before the high court's
closed-door conference the week of Sept. 24, when the
justices vote on whether to hear or reject around 1,000
cases. And it would take a quick timetable for Judge Souter
to be sworn in by Oct. 1, when the court term opens with two
weeks of oral arguments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In announcing the date, Sen. Joseph Biden (D., Del.), the
committee chairman, said he doesn't know how long the
confirmation process will take.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                       U.S TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $18.4 billion in three-month and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                        CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Allied Clinical Laboratories Co. -- initial 1.7 million
common shares, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc.
   Altera Corp. -- 2.5 million common shares, via Lehman
Brothers.
   Banco Central S.A. -- six million American depository
receipts, via Prudential-Bache Capital Funding.
   Bird Medical Technologies Inc. -- initial two million
common shares, via Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co.
   Cherokee Inc. -- initial four million common shares, via
PaineWebber Inc.
   Crescent Jewelers Inc. -- initial 2.2 million common
shares, via Alex. Brown.
   Danaher Corp. -- 1.35 million common shares, via Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets.
   Easel Corp. -- initial 1.85 million common shares, via
Robertson Stephens &amp; Co.
   Failure Group Inc. -- 3.95 million common shares, via
Prudential-Bache Capital Funding.
   Keppel Corp. -- 6.5 million American depository receipts,
via Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Lunar Corp. -- initial 1.475 million common shares, via
Smith Barney.
   Major's Jewelers Inc. -- initial 1.65 million common
shares, via Lehman Brothers.
   Marine Holding Co. -- three million common shares, via
Salomon Brothers.
   Mesa Airlines Inc. -- two million common shares, via
Josephthal &amp; Co. Inc.
   National Health Laboratories Inc. -- 13 million common
shares, via Lehman Brothers.
   USX Corp. -- $250 million zero-coupon convertible senior
debentures, via First Boston Corp.
   Venture Stores Inc. -- initial 2.32 million common shares,
via Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   Vintage Petroleum Inc. -- initial six million common
shares, via Dillon Read &amp; Co.
   Vishay Intertechnology Inc. -- two million common shares,
via Bear Stearns &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                         Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   Maryland Department Of Transportation -- $100 million of
consolidated transportation revenue bonds, 1990 Series, via
competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                      One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Huntsville, Ala., Solid Waste Disposal Authority -- $86.2
million of solid waste disposal and resource recovery revenue
bonds, 1990 Series, FGIC-insured, via a Merrill Lynch group.
   New York City Industrial Development Authority -- $85
million of special facilities revenue bonds on behalf of
American Airlines (Alternative Minimum Tax), via a Bear
Stearns group.
   Oklahoma Industries Authority -- $50 million of hopsital
revenue bonds, Baptist Medical Center of Oklahoma issue, 1990
Series A, via a Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Dow Chemical Co.:
   Concern Plans to Sell Stake
   In Destec Energy Subsidiary
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   DOW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Dow Chemical Co. said it plans to sell as much as 27.7% of
its Destec Energy Inc. subsidiary in an initial public
offering for as much as $327.8 million.
   Dow Chemical, which intends to keep the remaining shares
of Destec, said the offering will provide a valuation for
Destec and give it access to capital markets as it seeks
opportunities in the independent power generation industry,
which sells power to large utilities. The Midland, Mich.,
company has estimated that Destec's sales will reach $500
million this year and $1 billion by 1995.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Destec said it will issue as many as 17,250,000 shares at a
proposed maximum price of $19 a share. Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
is leading the underwriting group.
   Dow Chemical formed Destec, based in Houston, in May 1989
by consolidating some of the parent's energy-related assets,
including power-generating facilities not dedicated to Dow's
own factories. Destec expanded last October through the $115
million acquisition of PSE Inc., a Houston-based designer and
operator of energy-cogeneration facilities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   OPEC APPROVED an increase in its minimum reference price
to $21 from $18 a barrel, the first rise in four years. The
figure isn't a set selling price, but rather a goal OPEC
hopes to achieve through production controls. It may be
months before OPEC starts getting the price it wants.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chemical Banking withdrew as one of five lead banks for
the proposed $4.38 billion buy-out of UAL Corp., according to
people familiar with the plan. Although described as subject
to change, the move is a potentially serious blow to the
buy-out group.
   ---
   Economic growth slowed to a slim 1.2% in the second
quarter, one of the weakest performances in the past 7 1/2
years. Only rising business inventories and higher government
spending kept the economy from contracting.
   ---
   The Senate adopted a $54 billion farm bill, agreeing to
halt the steady decline in farm-income supports. The measure
also gives farmers a freer hand to grow crops they want
without losing their subsidy eligibility.
   ---
   Many banks are cutting back borrowing in the commercial
paper market, as investors grow more nervous about the
banking industry's health.
   ---
   Hong Kong businessman Li Kashing agreed to buy 50% of the
Canadian partnership that bought the huge junk-bond portfolio
of troubled Columbia Savings &amp; Loan Association.
   ---
   The Big Board is set to name William H. Donaldson, a
founder of Donaldson Lufkin, its next chairman, people close
to the exchange said.
   ---
   Machine tool orders rebounded in June from weak May levels
and were 9.1% above June 1989 levels, as durable goods makers
continued to buy machinery to improve productivity.
   ---
   The Social Security surplus shouldn't be counted toward
meeting current deficit-reduction targets, a federal advisory
panel said. The panel also warned against reducing Social
Security taxes as the surplus grows.
   ---
   A Senate panel subpoenaed Robert Thompson, a former aide
to Bush and Reagan, over his role in the 1988 sale of 15
insolvent Texas thrifts. But Mr. Thompson said he won't
appear.
   ---
   Student-lending program changes are being considered by
the administration, including co-signers on loans and credit
checks on borrowers.
   ---
   Liz Claiborne will raise its standard discount to 10% from
8% on shipments of women's apparel to department stores to
boost market share.
   ---
   Turner Broadcasting's loss from the Goodwill Games is
likely to exceed $40 million, including commercial time
Turner must give advertisers as compensation for reaching a
smaller TV audience than promised.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 149,070,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2898.51, off 22.28; transportation 1134.67, off 7.48;
utilities 203.35, up 0.19.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3461.23, up
23.22.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.41, up 0.15; spot
index 132.24, off 0.57.
   Dollar: 149.15 yen, off 1.22; 1.6120 marks, off 0.0125.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rep. Gonzalez Plans Probe
   On Treasury Use of Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- House Banking Committee Chairman Henry B.
Gonzalez announced plans to investigate the Treasury
Department's use of government funds for intervening in
currency markets and for funding its Third World debt plan.
   The Texas Democrat said he plans a series of hearings
starting Aug. 14.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Gonzalez, in a statement, said, "The American people
have the right to know how their hard-earned tax dollars are
being spent . . . yet the Treasury and the Federal Reserve
apparently believe that Congress and the American taxpayer do
not have the right to question certain aspects of their
international activities." He said this "intolerable attitude
toward accountability to the American people cannot be
justified."
   At issue is the $25 billion exchange stabilization fund
that the Treasury uses to intervene in foreign currency
markets. Mr. Gonzalez called it a "slush fund that lacks
public scrutiny." He said his committee will investigate
whether the Treasury Department should be banned from
manipulating the foreign-exchange value of the dollar and
that power be given exclusively to the Federal Reserve.
   In addition, Mr. Gonzalez plans to look into a Treasury
agreement to sell zero-coupon bonds to Mexico at below-market
prices, in effect subsidizing the bonds with taxpayers'
money.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Ferruzzi Units Will Merge
   Into New Holding Concern
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   MNT I.FAF I.FER
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN -- Montedison S.p.A and Ferruzzi Agricola
Finanziaria S.p.A., two companies controlled by Ferruzzi
Finanziaria S.p.A., announced plans to merge into a holding
company, controlling all the agro-industrial and chemical
interests of Italy's Ferruzzi group.
   The company, to be named Montedison S.p.A., will have
annual sales of about 35 trillion lire ($29.5 million).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a precondition of the merger, Ferruzzi Agricola will
raise the value of its shares to 1,000 lire from 800 lire.
   The company will also arrange a three-for-seven bonus
issue for all categories of its stock. It will then merge and
incorporate Montedison through a share swap, offering seven
shares of Ferruzzi Agricola Finanziaria for every 10 shares
of Montedison.
   Ferruzzi Agricola said that, thanks to the bonus issue,
the effective share-swap ratio is 10 Ferruzzi Agricola shares
for every 10 Montedison shares. No cash is involved in the
transaction.
   The new company, to be based in Milan, should make it
easier for investors to evaluate Ferruzzi's business and help
it raise money on international markets.
   Ferruzzi said that the deal would benefit Ferruzzi
Agricola shareholders because it would strengthen the
company's assets. For Montedison shareholders, the merger
means the agro-industrial company Erizania S.p.A. will become
part of the enlarged group.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   MONTEDISON S.p.A., a proposed holding company that would
control the agro-industrial and chemical interests of Italy's
Ferruzzi Finanziaria S.p.A., will have annual sales of about
35 trillion lire ($29.60 billion). The dollar equivalent was
misstated in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ July 31, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senate Adopts $54 Billion Farm Bill,
   Renewing Thrust of Agriculture Policy
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate adopted a $54 billion farm bill,
renewing the basic thrust of U.S. agricultural policy for
another five years while plowing new ground in environmental
protection.
   The lawmakers agreed to halt the steady decline in
farm-income supports under the expiring 1985 farm bill, and
to give farmers a somewhat freer hand to grow the crops they
want without losing their eligibility for subsidies. But the
Senate made only a stab at frugality, putting off any
significant reductions in farm spending until budget
negotiators can agree on a package of spending cuts and
taxes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bill was approved 70-21 Friday after Senate
Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D., Vt.) and
Sen. Richard Lugar of Indiana, the panel's ranking
Republican, prevailed in seven long days of floor
skirmishing, fending off all but a few attempts to alter the
compromise package that they had fashioned in committee. One
notable amendment they couldn't defeat would phase out honey
subsidies for commercial beekeepers over the next four years.
   The House expects to finish work on its version of the
1990 farm bill this week, and after Congress returns from its
August recess, a conference will begin reconciling
differences between the two measures. Bush administration
officials already have threatened a presidential veto unless
substantial cuts are made. Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas, the
Republican leader, warned that $6 billion to $18 billion may
yet have to be slashed from the agriculture budget over the
five-year life of the bill.
   But for now, most senators were inclined to take an upbeat
view. "This is a good, solid, progressive farm bill," said
Sen. Leahy. "It is an environmentally conscious farm bill."
   The legislation would expand the Conservation Reserve
Program to include environmentally sensitive land, and it
would set up a new program of easements to protect wetlands.
Under another new program, the government would pay farmers
as much as $3,500 a year for changing their farming practices
to curb chemical contamination of wells and watercourses.
   The bill also would revamp the so-called swampbuster
program. Farmers would be allowed to drain small wetlands as
long as they restored former wetlands of equal or larger
size. The bill would make it easier to apprehend farmers who
converted wetlands to crop production, while imposing
graduated fines for inadvertent violations of the swampbuster
provision. Currently, farmers can lose all their subsidies
and farm-program benefits -- otherwise known as the drop-dead
penalty -- for tilling wetlands.
   Sen. Leahy also called the bill "a victory for consumers."
It would break the "circle of poison," banning the exporting
of pesticides barred from use by U.S. farmers and the
importing of fruit tainted with these pesticides. In
addition, the legislation would create a special label for
organically produced fruit, vegetables and other crops that
have been certified to meet minimum federal organic
standards.
   The commodity provisions would, among other things, give
farmers the option to plant a variety of crops on 25% of the
acreage they customarily devote to subsidized crops. But in
taking advantage of this flexibility, they would forgo any
subsidies on that land. The objective is to have farmers make
planting decisions in response to market demand, rather than
incentives created by the subsidy programs.
   The bill would freeze target prices for almost all major
crops for the next five years, and it would create marketing
loans for wheat, feed grains and oil-seed crops, including
soybeans and sunflowers. Marketing loans are designed to
prevent the buildup of government-owned surpluses by
promoting exports. In addition, the bill would impose a dairy
floor price of $10.10 per hundred pounds of milk.
   The milk floor price and marketing loan proposals are
among the innovations in the bill that the administration
strongly opposes from the standpoint of farm policy and cost.
In the light of the budget crisis, the Senate bill has a
"surreal aspect to it," said John Campbell, a senior
Agriculture Department official. "It's business as usual."
   "It's very difficult for the legislative branch to
exercise restraint in an election year," said Agriculture
Secretary Clayton Yeutter. Nine of the Senate Agriculture
Committee's 19 members are up for re-election.
   Sen. Max Baucus (D., Mont.) denounced the bill for not
being generous enough. He predicted that insufficient
farm-income supports would "create ghost towns in rural
America" as 500,000 farmers go out of business in the 1990s.
   The bill doesn't include a food stamp and nutrition
section, but Sen. Leahy has promised to add one during the
House-Senate conference. To the administration's
consternation, the House has proposed a $5.5 billion
expansion in food stamp spending.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chicago Blackout, Looting
   Follow Fire at Utility Site
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   CWE
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- A fire at a Commonwealth Edison Co. generating
plant knocked out power for about 40,000 customers on the
city's west and southwest side late Saturday night, and the
blackout sparked a rash of looting incidents that lasted
until dawn.
   By yesterday evening, a spokesman for the utility said,
power had been restored to "about half" the affected
customers in the area. Returning service to the remaining
customers may take until Wednesday, he said, although the
work could be completed as early as today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Police put extra patrols on the streets and said they
arrested 49 people on looting-related charges after power was
knocked out late Saturday, the Associated Press reported.
According to the AP, three people died in a fire that was
started by candles those people were using to light their
home.
   Commonwealth Edison serves three million customers in
northern Illinois; the spokesman said the problem at the
plant isn't expected to have any significant financial impact
on the company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tanker With Double Hull
   Involved in Oil-Spill Crash
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   GALVESTON, Texas -- A new, double-hulled tanker and two
oil-laden barges collided near here, spilling as much as
50,000 gallons of heavy black oil from the barges into
Galveston Bay.
   One of the barges sank, the other was towed to safety.
Both continued to leak, surrounded by oil-containment booms,
the U.S. Coast Guard said. The Liberian-registered tanker
Shinoussa, outbound with almost 10 million gallons of jet
fuel, sustained hull damage and took on water. But the vessel
was able to anchor safely and wasn't adding to the three-mile
slick spreading from the accident scene, the Coast Guard
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   No one was injured, the Coast Guard said, adding that it
is investigating the incident, which forced the closing of
the busy Houston Ship Channel, scene of numerous oil spills,
for most of the weekend. Late last night the channel remained
closed.
   The ship, built earlier this year in South Korea, has a
design that will be required by such ships in all U.S. waters
under new oil-spill legislation pending in Congress.
Double-hulled tankers are said to be spill-resistant because
they carry oil in an inner steel compartment separated from
the outside hull.
   The damaged barges were among three containing 2.6 million
gallons of oil being moved into the ship channel by the
tugboat Chandy N. The tug and barges are owned by a St.
Louis-based towing company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Union Rejects Latest Offer
   From NBC for 4-Year Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR GE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A union representing producers, news writers,
engineers and technicians at National Broadcasting Co.
overwhelmingly rejected a four-year contract for the second
time since April.
   A spokesman for the union, the National Association of
Broadcast Employees and Technicians, said it hoped to have
further negotiations with NBC, a unit of General Electric Co.
NBC had no immediate comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The vote was 1,290 to 516 to reject NBC's latest offer.
The previous contract expired March 30. No strike vote has
been taken. The union went on a 17-week strike against NBC in
1987. The main issue involves jurisdiction over people hired
by the day rather than on a full-time basis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Peru's President Removes
   Heads of Navy, Air Force
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LIMA, Peru -- President Alberto Fujimori confirmed
yesterday that he had removed the heads of the navy and air
force his first day in office but said he owed no explanation
for the action.
   He also said he would close banks today and tomorrow to
help prepare emergency economic measures but guaranteed
Peruvians' savings accounts wouldn't be touched. In addition,
the president said he wanted to resume payments on the
nation's foreign debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Fujimori, who took office Saturday, said in his first
news conference that economic measures would be announced
Thursday or Friday.
   Turning to the high-level military firings, Mr. Fujimori
said, "I must deny that there exists any discontent in the
armed forces."
   He removed Gen. German Vucetich as head of the air force
and replaced him with Gen. Arnaldo Velarde Ramirez. He also
appointed Adm. Luis Montes Lecaros to head the navy after
removing Admiral Alfonso Panizo.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Michelin Group:
   Uniroyal Goodrich to Raise
   Private Brand Tire Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   X.UGT F.MIC
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Co. said it will increase prices on
private brand tires by 2% to 4.5% effective Sept. 4. Uniroyal
is a unit of Michelin Group of France.
   The move by the Akron, Ohio, company is part of a general
industry increase in list prices of replacement tires. Tire
makers previously announced increases of 2% to 4% on
replacement tires sold under the companies' own brands.
They're following up with an increase in the price of tires
sold to major wholesalers, mass merchandisers and other
concerns that contract with tire makers to produce tires for
them under private brands.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tire prices have been discounted more than usual this
year, mainly because a slowdown in auto and truck production
forced some tire makers to sell in the replacement market
tires they produced for Detroit. Analysts doubt that tire
producers will collect the full amount of their recently
announced increases, but they do expect some increase in
realized prices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Arix Corp.:
   Minicomputer Firm Expects
   To Report 4th-Quarter Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ARIX
</CO>
<LP>
   Arix Corp. said it expects to report a loss of $20 million
to $22 million for its fourth quarter, ended June 30, because
of charges related to shrinking its main unit.
   The San Jose, Calif., minicomputer maker also said its
deteriorating condition will reduce its ability to borrow
under its existing bank line of credit to about $2.9 million.
It said it is seeking alternate financing sources but didn't
elaborate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Arix has been hurt by declining revenue from its biggest
customer, Unisys Corp.
   It said the charges, which will total $12 million to $14
million, relate to employee-termination costs, to costs of
terminating leases and to write-downs.
   Arix also said it expects to report that fourth-quarter
revenue plunged 65% to $7 million from $20 million. For the
first nine months, the company had a net loss of $11.2
million, or $1.46 a share, on revenue of $49.6 million.
   In over-the-counter trading Friday, Arix closed at
$1.9375, down 6.25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Qintex Entertainment Inc.:
   Firm's Officers, Directors,
   Insurers, Holders Settle Suit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   QNTXQ A.QNT A.QAL
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Qintex Entertainment Inc. said it reached a $4 million
settlement involving the film company's officers and
directors, their insurer and shareholders in a class-action
suit brought following Qintex's Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law
filing last October.
   Under terms of the settlement, the insurance company will
deposit $4 million for payment of claims, and plaintiffs will
release all claims against Qintex and its officers and
directors. The Beverly Hills, Calif., company, which said its
officers and directors deny any liability or wrongdoing, said
they reached the agreement to avoid the expense and time of
protracted legal proceedings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The settlement agreement is contingent upon court
approval. Under Chapter 11 bankruptcy, a company is protected
by the court from its creditors while it works out a plan to
pay off its debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Franklin Electronic Publishers Inc.:
   Fiscal First-Quarter Loss
   Widened to $2.8 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5A
</SO>
<CO>
   FPUB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Franklin Electronic Publishers Inc., Mount Holly, N.J.,
said its net loss in its first quarter, ended June 30, more
than doubled because of a "sluggish retail environment for
electronics" and high inventories.
   The deficit at the maker of hand-held electronic reference
products widened to $2.8 million, or 42 cents a share, from a
year-earlier loss of $1.2 million, or 21 cents a share. Sales
rose 12% to $12 million from $10.8 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chairman Morton E. David said the company has reduced
inventories by almost 40% to $17.6 million, compared with a
year earlier. He also said the fiscal first quarter is the
company's slowest period. "Inventories should be in line by
the end of the September quarter," he said, and the company
expects to return to profitability in its second half.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OPEC Votes
   Plan to Boost
   World Oil Price
   ---
   `Minimum' Quote Is Lifted
   By $3 a Barrel to $21;
   Pressure by Iraq Is Cited
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   GENEVA -- The Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, in an unusual display of resolve, reached an
agreement intended to push up world oil prices about 20% this
year.
   Under pressure from their heads of state -- including
President Saddam Hussein of Iraq, who wanted a 40% jump --
the oil ministers approved a $3 increase to $21 a barrel in
OPEC's "minimum reference price" for a basket of seven
crudes. Iraq was pushing for a $7 rise.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Effective immediately, the increase is the first in almost
four years from an $18 reference price. The figure isn't a
set selling price; instead, it is a goal OPEC hopes to
achieve in the open market through self-imposed production
controls.
   Right now, the market price of OPEC oil is a bit under the
old reference price, averaging around $17.50 a barrel. It had
fallen as low as $14, or $4 under the old target, earlier
this year.
   Still, said Hisham Nazer, Saudi Arabia's oil minister, "We
do not foresee that the price will not get to the minimum
level." OPEC has seen its average price hit or exceed its
target at times in the past, but has been unable to keep it
there because quota "cheating" by some members created excess
supply.
   This time the ministers believe that price-eroding excess
production won't occur. They agreed here, as expected, to
raise OPEC's production ceiling by 400,000 barrels a day to
22.5 million. While higher, the new ceiling, if realized and
sustained, would represent a cut in the actual amount of OPEC
oil entering the market. The ceiling was raised to allow a
bigger production quota for the United Arab Emirates, which
until now has been a chronic over-producer. In return, the
UAE has said it will honor its new quota as part of the
group's bid to push prices to $21.
   Thus, OPEC hopes to underwrite its reference-price
increase of $3 a barrel by taking as much as 700,000 barrels
a day out of glutted world oil markets.
   The cuts would come from Kuwait, another of OPEC's leading
over-producers, as well as from the UAE. The two were chief
targets of Iraq's President Hussein, who blamed them for this
year's oil-price fall and threatened to use military force to
stop their quota "cheating." Only a week ago, on the eve of
OPEC's meeting, President Hussein moved troops and tanks to
the 100-mile border Iraq shares with Kuwait.
   Formerly known for aggressiveness in OPEC affairs, Kuwait
was noticeably conciliatory at the meeting here and is
understood to be cutting output. The UAE also is arranging to
reduce production to its new quota of 1.5 million barrels a
day from two million barrels.
   Many considered the session here crucial for OPEC and
several suggested OPEC is on a new course. "This is the
turning point," Jibril Aminu, Nigeria's oil minister, said in
an interview during the weekend. "The credibility of OPEC is
on the threshold of being restored." Ministers cited a new
arrangement to monitor quota violations and a mechanism
intended to adjust prices and production in tandem in future
six-month periods.
   This was also OPEC's shortest regular conference in six
years. The 13 ministers took only three days of informal and
formal talks to settle on a new price target, output ceiling
and a formula linking future price and production changes.
The new reference price and output ceiling are in effect
until year end.
   Most delegates maintained that their focus here was on the
economics of oil, not politics. Some privately complained
about Iraq's "gunboat diplomacy" with Kuwait and the UAE, but
the majority seemed convinced that President Hussein had made
an offer they couldn't refuse. "He was the catalyst in this
agreement," said one senior OPEC source.
   While Iraq appears to have succeeded in getting pledges of
quota compliance, it didn't get the much-higher reference
price it wanted. Only Libya openly supported Iraq's bid for
$25 a barrel. A majority, including Saudi Arabia and
Venezuela, considered that unrealistic and favored $20.
Nigeria suggested $22.
   Iraq regards the final $21 figure, "a step forward in
improving the prices," its oil minister, Issam Abdul Raheem
Al-Chalabi, said in an interview. "This was, in fact,
engineered by Saudi Arabia and Iraq with consultation with
others," he said.
   Iran initially proposed a $20 reference price, and for
weeks before this meeting, Gholamreza Aghazadeh, Iran's oil
minister, promoted that idea in visits to other OPEC
countries. "I felt the market would accept" a $2 rise in oil
prices, he said in an interview. From now on, OPEC hopes to
make that judgment process routine by linking any future
increases in its production ceiling with increases in its
reference price. The aim is to assure progressive, gradual
rises in prices. "We don't want price shocks," he said.
   Besides Iran and Iraq, Saudi Arabia played a leading role
in the new agreement. The new output ceiling and some other
matters were worked out as long ago as July 10 at a meeting
in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, attended by Mr. Nazer and the oil
ministers of Kuwait, the UAE, Iraq and Qatar. It was followed
by a telephone call from Saudi King Fahd to the ruler of the
UAE, which then announced it would accept a new OPEC quota.
On Friday, Mr. Nazer listed as among the agreement's "very
important elements" the fact that it is "based on the full
political commitment at the highest level by member
countries."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Royal Dutch/Shell Group:
   Shell Oil Says 2nd Period
   Earnings Declined by 63%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   RD SC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Shell Oil Co. reported that second-quarter earnings fell
63% to $161 million from $440 million a year earlier.
   Revenue declined to $5.17 billion from $5.87 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Shell said a major factor in the profit decline was a
decision to write off some of the investment in certain oil
and gas properties offshore California because of continuing
delays in securing development permits.
   Shell Oil, a subsidiary of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group,
said the write-offs applying to offshore California and the
Beaufort Sea amounted to $76 million. The benefit of a tax
adjustment applicable to prior years partly offset the
write-offs, the company said.
   The company also attributed the earnings decline to lower
production volumes. Crude oil prices were significantly lower
in the second quarter but slightly improved in the first
half.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Six Guilty of Money-Laundering
   In Case Tied to Luxembourg Bank
   ----
   By R. Gustav Niebuhr and Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   GCI
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   After a six-month trial, a federal jury has convicted six
men -- five of them former employees of the Luxembourg-based
Bank of Credit and Commerce International -- of conspiring to
launder $14 million in proceeds from the sale of cocaine.
   The verdict marked the second stage of a two-part
prosecution of the biggest single-bank, drug-money laundering
case in U.S. history. In January, BCCI pleaded guilty to
money-laundering charges and agreed to pay a $15.3 million
fine.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The defendants found guilty in Tampa, Fla. -- Amjad Awan,
41 years old; Syed Aftab Hussain, 30; Akbar A. Bilgrami, 35;
Sibte Hassan, 31; Ian Howard, 39; and Colombian businessman
Rudolph Armbrecht, age unavailable -- were also convicted of
various individual counts of money laundering, from three in
the case of Mr. Hassan, to 20 each in the cases of Messrs.
Hussain and Bilgrami. The jury acquitted Mr. Hassan of three
charges of money laundering. Mr. Armbrecht is the individual
who didn't work for BCCI.
   Conviction on the conspiracy charge carries a maximum
sentence of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine; each of
the money-laundering charges carries a maximum penalty of 20
years imprisonment and a fine of either $500,000 or twice the
value of the property laundered, whichever is greater.
   Judge William T. Hodges said a sentencing date will be set
later this week. In the meantime, he ordered that the six men
be held without bail.
   The convictions come in the wake of an incident last week
that might well have resulted in a mistrial. After the jury
began deliberations July 18, one juror made at least one
phone call to individuals allegedly connected to the Medellin
drug cartel in Colombia, according to courthouse documents.
The juror obtained the phone numbers from an address book
that federal agents had seized from Mr. Armbrecht and that
the prosecution had entered in evidence.
   The incident came to light after the juror mentioned the
call to other members of the jury; the husband of one of the
other jurors later tipped off the Federal Bureau of
Investigation. After a hearing Thursday, Judge Hodges
dismissed the juror and ordered the remaining 11 members of
the jury sequestered to complete their deliberations.
   In a prepared statement, U.S. Attorney Robert W. Genzman
said he was "extremely satisfied" with the verdict. Defense
attorneys couldn't be reached for comment.
   BCCI released a statement expressing "sympathy to the
families" of the six men, and adding that the crimes were
"contrary to the express, written policies of BCCI" and
occurred without the knowledge of the bank's management or
board.
   ---
   SECURITIES INDUSTRY prepares to fight Florida arbitration
law.
   The industry is gearing up to challenge a Florida law that
gives investors the option of bringing their disputes with
brokers to arbitrators not affiliated with the securities
industry.
   Florida is the first state to enact a law that requires
brokers to allow their customers the freedom to take their
disputes to the American Arbitration Association, an
independent forum, or to arbitration panels subsidized by the
industry. AAA president Robert Coulson hailed the law as a
safeguard for the small investor's "right to select."
   But a spokesman for the Securities Industry Association
said the trade organization will file a challenge to the law
in federal court by early August. William Fitzpatrick, the
SIA's general counsel, says the Florida law interferes with
brokers' contractual rights and conflicts with the Federal
Arbitration Act. He cites a recent U.S. Supreme Court
decision that the Federal Arbitration Act prohibits states
from singling out securities arbitration agreements for
tighter controls than other business contracts. In that
ruling, the high court knocked down a Massachusetts
regulation similar to Florida's law.
   "We feel we can block the Florida law on the same grounds
that we successfully blocked the Massachusetts law," Mr.
Fitzpatrick says.
   Mr. Fitzpatrick says the SIA's more than 600 members can
use any arbitration panel to settle disputes. But the
organization is opposed to the government demanding that
brokers write their agreements to provide freedom of choice
for investors, he adds.
   It is standard practice for investors opening brokerage
accounts to sign an agreement promising to arbitrate disputes
rather than file lawsuits.
   In its ruling early this year, the U.S. Supreme Court let
stand a federal appeals court decision that quashed the
Massachusetts regulation that prohibited securities firms
from requiring customers to sign arbitration agreements.
   Increasingly, investors are asking courts or legislators
to give them greater choice in choosing forums for
arbitration with their brokers. Early this month the New York
Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, gave investors
the right to use the American Arbitration Association to
resolve disputes over broker agreements if their contracts
specifically allow for it.
   Mr. Fitzpatrick says that at least nine other states had
contemplated a law similar to Massachusetts but backed off
after the regulation was declared unconstitutional. He says
California is in the early stages of considering a bill
similar to Florida's.
   George Friedman, a lawyer with the American Arbitration
Association, predicts the Florida law will survive court
scrutiny. He says the Massachusetts plan was a regulation,
not a law, and attempted to limit brokers' rights to insist
on arbitration to resolve customer disputes.
   ---
   LAW FIRM GETS $750,000 IN FEES in unusual libel case.
Nixon, Hargrave, Devans &amp; Doyle, a Rochester, N.Y., law firm,
collected the money from the unsuccessful plaintiff in a
libel suit against Gannett Co.
   The case was filed in 1978 by Hammer DeRoburt, then
president of the tiny Pacific Island nation of Nauru. Mr.
DeRoburt, one of Nauru's founding fathers, claimed that a
Gannett paper, the Pacific Daily News, falsely linked him to
a $675,000 loan to a political faction in the Marshall
Islands.
   In 1985 a jury found that the article had been defamatory
but did not constitute actual malice. Mr. DeRoburt was
therefore not entitled to damages. U.S. District Judge Samuel
P. King ruled that Gannett, based in Arlington, Va., was
entitled to legal fees from Mr. DeRoburt. The case was tried
under a combination of English law, which is used by Nauru,
and U.S. law. Under English law a losing party is typically
required to pay the winner's legal fees.
   After Mr. DeRoburt unsuccessfully appealed the verdict and
Judge King's decision on the legal fees, the parties settled
on the $750,000 payment. One of Mr. DeRoburt's lawyers,
Thomas N. Charchut of the Santa Monica, Calif., law firm of
Haight, Brown &amp; Bonesteel, called the settlement "a
compromise both sides could live with."
   John B. McCrory, of Nixon, Hargrave, said fees billed by
his law firm came to over $1 million.
   ---
   Ellen Joan Pollock contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Petrobras:
   Brazil's Oil Company Posts
   $466 Million Profit for Half
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Petrobras, Brazil's government oil company, reported
first-half profit of $466 million, despite a June loss of $49
million.
   Reynaldo Aloy, financial director, said the June deficit
was due in part to government-set fuel prices, which have
been frozen since President Fernando Collor de Mello took
office in March. Petrobras President Luis Octavio da Motta
Veiga said in June that the government needed to raise
domestic fuel prices 10% to 15%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The June deficit also resulted from the creation of a $114
million fund to protect against losses from the privatization
of the Petromisa unit, Mr. Aloy said. Petromisa is one of
several Petrobras units to be sold under a national campaign
to cut government spending. Mr. Motta Veiga has said the
company will lay off 16,000 of 80,000 workers at Petrobras
and its units.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   S&amp;P Downgrades
   BayBanks Debt, Cites
   Nonperforming Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5A
</SO>
<CO>
   BBNK
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it lowered its
rating on BayBanks Inc.'s senior debt to double-B-plus from
triple-B-minus, citing the bank holding company's increase in
nonperforming assets.
   The rating concern also downgraded certificates of deposit
of the BayBank Middlesex unit to triple-B-minus/single-A-3
from triple-B/single-A-2.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The moves affect about $50 million of debt, S&amp;P said.
   BayBanks' recent announcement of an increase in
nonperforming assets in the second quarter "evidences the
continued steep decline in New England real estate sectors,"
S&amp;P said. "Nonperforming asset levels are high relative to
the firm's low reserve levels and to its equity base."
Nonperforming assets include foreclosed loans and loans for
which interest payments are 90 days past due.
   S&amp;P said it expects BayBanks to have "high charge-offs
over the next few quarters" and further provisions for loan
losses, lowering its profitability. But the rating concern
added that BayBanks has good liquidity and less exposure to
commercial real estate loans than many other New England
banks.
   A BayBanks spokesman declined to comment on the S&amp;P
action.
   BayBanks had a second-quarter net loss of $11.5 million,
or 72 cents a share, after a loan-loss provision of $63.5
million, and it cut its dividend by one-third. Loan-loss
reserves as of June 30 were $145 million, or 55% of
nonperforming loans, compared with $57.3 million, or 65.6% of
nonperforming loans a year earlier. Nonperforming loans rose
to $265 million as of June 30, compared with $237 million at
the end of the previous quarter and $87.4 million a year
earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Istanbul Exchange Is Booming and Many Expect
   Market to be World's Hottest Again This Year
   ----
   By Hugh Pope
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   ISTANBUL -- Prices are booming on the Istanbul Stock
Exchange, with the index hitting a record Friday and rising
21% so far this month. Many expect the exchange to become the
world's hottest stock market for the second year in a row.
   Speculators and brokers are delighted with the action on
the trading floor -- and outside in a wide alleyway by the
exchange on a Bosporus quayside, where more than 200
"suitcase traders" do a brisk business from tables piled high
with colorful bearer shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The market is maturing fast," said Henri van't Hoff,
Treasury coordinator at Istanbul's Ottoman Bank, one of many
that has seen an explosive rise in stock exchange business.
"Soon this won't be a big Lisbon but a mini-Milan."
   Turkey's stock market capitalization is still only a
fraction of Italy's, but it has overtaken those of European
Community members Portugal and Greece. With Turkish family
companies flocking in for listings, further exponential
growth seems likely.
   "We want to see Istanbul develop as a regional financial
center," said the exchange's chairman, Yaman Toruner. "We
want to see a rising index, a bullish market . . . but we
don't think the index can rise forever."
   Gunes Taner, the cigar-chomping state minister who
oversees President Turgut Ozal's directives on the economy,
has no such qualms. He has predicted that Turkish stock
prices will quadruple in 1990.
   They have already doubled. The Istanbul Stock Exchange
Index closed at 4986.84 Friday, a gain of 53.84 points on the
day -- and a 13% rise for the week. At the end of 1989 the
index stood at 2217.66, and at the end of June it was
4132.98.
   A survey by the International Finance Corporation, an arm
of the World Bank, found the Istanbul market rose the fastest
of any emerging market both in 1989 and in the 12 months
ended March 30. An IFC dollar-based index showed the market
soared 333% in the 12 months ended March 30, while the
all-share Istanbul index increased sevenfold in the period.
   Renewed foreign buying, stagnant returns in Turkey on
investments in gold, property and bank accounts -- as well as
expectations of high company profits this year -- have stoked
demand for shares, brokers and analysts say. New issues also
have been soaked up by a big widening of share ownership
among Turkey's 56 million people.
   While share certificates are being pinned to Turkish
brides' dresses next to the traditional gold coins and bank
bills, simplicity may have its drawbacks. Last month only a
handful of more than 70,000 new shareholders in the
state-owned petrochemical conglomerate Petkim requested that
the selling bank keep custody of their share certificates and
coupons. "The shares are being stashed under the pillow like
gold and cash before them," said the left-wing Cumhuriyet
newspaper.
   While individuals still dominate the market, institutional
savings funds are slowly raising their profile. The number of
domestic funds has tripled to more than 60 in the past 12
months. Foreign mutual funds have bought up at least $200
million of shares since foreign-exchange controls were lifted
a year ago.
   The government is delighted. After years of promises,
false starts and delays, Turkey's creaking privatization
program is now on track. The state sold more than $400
million of shares to the public in the first six months of
this year. Most of the proceeds will go toward easing
Turkey's chronic budget deficit, officials say. They add that
many more state enterprises will soon go under the hammer.
   Turkish businessmen also have caught the fever, even if
they are usually only selling off a first 15% of their
companies. These days, barely a week goes by without an
offering, with many of the issues selling out in days to
foreign funds and through bank branches all over Turkey.
   Bankers say they are having to turn away some businessmen
wanting to issue shares, mainly because they want
unrealistically high offer prices. Half of the 15 new offers
this year fell below their issue price in initial weeks,
including key issues like Petkim. This has caused some
Istanbul speculators, if not standard investors, to avoid new
issues.
   "I don't buy these new flotations. We want to see their
performance first," said Macit Sekerci, one of the suitcase
traders outside the exchange. Next to his shares on a picnic
table was a notice offering to sell his Mercedes car for
1,250 shares in the popular Eregli Iron &amp; Steel Works.
   Mr. Sekerci rents space on the street for the equivalent
of $11 a month from the city, part of the growing regulation
and sophistication of many aspects of the exchange. A smart
wrought-iron sign over a nearby eatery advertises "Le Buffet
de la Bourse" a far cry from the dingy teahouse that was the
center of unofficial trading only months ago.
   Exchange Chairman Toruner said a new building and
computerized trading soon will bring an end to this colorful
brokering, in which former teachers, shopkeepers and even
tire repairmen keep in touch with the market on the latest
model mobile phones.
   A new capital markets law regulating the market may
finally be passed in the fall, Mr. Toruner added, forcing
independent auditing and a closer watch on rampant insider
dealing at the exchange.
   Manipulation already has become more expensive because of
a big rise in trading volume. Official figures show volume
climbed to the equivalent of $2.4 billion in the year's first
six months, 28 times the volume of the year-earlier period.
   The number of shares listed on the exchange has risen to
more than 90 from 50 at the start of the year, and market
capitalization has reached more than $22 billion, nearly a
third of Turkey's 1989 gross national product.
   Foreign investors have little doubt that there are risks
attached to the Istanbul market, which crashed in August
1987, after which the index steadily fell to lows of around
370 in January 1989 from 1332 at the time of the crash. The
average ratio of current prices to 1989 earnings is 22, well
above the IFC's emerging-markets average of about 17.
Foreigners' trading profits also may be eroded if the Turkish
lira comes under pressure from the country's widening
current-account deficit.
   For the brave investor, as for those behind the burgeoning
direct foreign investment in Turkey, the market's potential
is worth such risks.
   "Turkey is a platform between East and West, Moslems and
Christians, north and south. It will be a "passage
obligatoire," said Philippe Sardet, president of the Agame
group of European analysts, while visiting Istanbul. "Turkey
will be the Hong Kong of Europe for the next five years."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Tokyo's Nikkei Index registered its lowest close since May
2.
   Bond prices crashed to six-year lows from the opening,
sending stock prices tumbling. The Nikkei Index regained some
strength when bond yields topped out, closing down 506.27
points at 30863.48.
   At mid-morning in Tokyo Monday, the Nikkei index had
sagged another 491.36 points to 30372.12.
   Friday's volume on the first section was estimated at 450
million shares, up from 342.4 million Thursday. Losing issues
overwhelmed winning issues 800-179, while 148 remained
unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section fell 31.94, or 1.40%, to 2249.26. The second
section index fell 21.20, or 0.48%, to 4363.10.
   London shares ended lower as participants showed little
interest.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index dropped
14 points to 2330.1. The Financial Times 30 Share Index fell
9.4 points to 1842.1. Volume was a skimpy 344.7 million
shares.
   Elsewhere, shares closed higher in Stockholm, and lower in
Frankfurt, Paris, Madrid, Amsterdam and Zurich. Shares ended
mixed in Brussels and Milan. South African gold stocks closed
lower.
   Stocks ended lower in Sydney, Seoul and Wellington, mixed
in Hong Kong, and higher in Singapore, Taipei and Manila.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                 % This
                             Jul 26    Jul 25      Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ....................  329.6     330.6    + 1.4
   Britain .................  696.5     702.1    - 3.4
   Canada ..................  390.3     391.9    - 9.7
   Japan ................... 1257.8    1275.7    -24.0
   France ..................  553.4     557.7    - 2.4
   Germany .................  311.3     310.5    + 9.1
   Hong Kong ............... 2593.1    2623.0    +23.7
   Switzerland .............  221.4     222.3    + 0.3
   Australia ...............  327.4     327.3    - 1.2
   World index .............  519.8     524.2    - 8.4
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Comair Sets Saab Plane Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   COMR S.SAA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Comair Holdings Inc. said it signed a
purchase option to buy 20 Saab 2000 aircraft valued at more
than $230 million from Saab-Scania AB, a Swedish aircraft
producer, for use by the Comair regional airline subsidiary.
   The company said it expects to sign a formal purchase
agreement in late 1991. The Saab turboprop aircraft, which
each seat 50 passengers, will be delivered to Comair between
1993 and 1997. The carrier already operates Saab-Scania's
33-passenger Saab 340 aircraft.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Turner's Games
   Get Low Ratings
   But High Esteem
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   TBSA
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- A little more than halfway through the Goodwill
Games, Ted Turner's self-styled Olympiad is earning low
television ratings but high marks as a world-class sporting
event.
   Before the games opened here 10 days ago, executives of
Turner Broadcasting System Inc. and some of its directors
said the goal of this year's Goodwill Games was twofold: to
narrow the $26 million loss the first games suffered in 1986,
and to establish the games as an internationally renowned
event between Olympic Games.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Based on results through Friday, the second Goodwill Games
appears to have surpassed organizers' expectations for both
losses and fame. Mr. Turner, chairman and chief executive
officer of Atlanta-based Turner Broadcasting, said last week
that the loss from this year's games would be in the same
range as in 1986. But according to executives close to the
company, his prediction didn't account for so-called
make-goods, the commercial time Turner must give advertisers
to compensate them for reaching a smaller TV audience than
they were promised.
   Including make-goods, these executives say, Turner
Broadcasting's loss from the games is likely to climb to more
than $40 million.
   Through the first week of the 17-day event, the games
scored an average primetime rating of 2.6 -- meaning the
games were watched by 2.6% of the 40 million or so households
that could receive the broadcasts. That's a big improvement
from the games' average ratings four years ago, but it's
still just about half the viewership that Turner Broadcasting
guaranteed to advertisers.
   Executives close to the company said it will cost Turner
Broadcasting about $18 million of air time to make up the
difference.
   A Turner Broadcasting spokeswoman declined to comment
further on the expected loss except to say that the company
won't know the exact amount until the event ends Aug. 5.
   Games organizers do have a lot to crow about in terms of
establishing credibility for the event. The games, especially
the exploits of the U.S. basketball team and track star Carl
Lewis, have received extensive coverage in sports pages
across the U.S., unlike four years ago when the event was
widely ignored.
   Seattle is also swarming with foreign journalists, though
cab drivers here lament that the tourists have stayed away.
Eight sports writers from Italy alone are in town for the
event, dispatching reports home nightly.
   In Thailand, a banner headline in the Bangkok Post
proclaimed the Goodwill Games "off to a grand start."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GOP Tax Targets -- State by State
   ----
   By Paul Merski
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   President Bush and senior Republican congressmen last week
announced they had agreed on a budget proposal to cap the
amount of state and local income taxes taxpayers can deduct
on their federal tax returns. The plan would cap deductions
at $10,000. If passed and implemented, the plan will have
widely different effects. The increased burden caused by
reducing federal deductions for state and local taxes will be
borne unevenly by the states. The result will be a list of
"winning" and "losing" states with respect to their
residents' tax burdens.
   It is widely taken for granted that most tax deductions
benefit only the wealthy. But approximately 70% of all
itemized deductions benefit the middle-income ranges. Of the
numerous exclusions and deductions, those for pension
contributions, mortgage interest on homes, payments from
employers for medical insurance and care, state and local
income and property taxes, and Social Security benefits
account for more than half the amount going to individuals.
These deductions are popular because they benefit millions of
Americans. With the exception of direct Social Security and
Medicare payments, they provide the biggest middle-class
benefit in the federal budget.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Reducing or eliminating the current deductibility of state
and local income taxes will have a great impact on citizens
of states that use these two forms of taxation as their major
source of tax revenue. New York, Massachusetts and Maryland,
which bear the greatest per-capita burden of state and local
income taxes, will naturally be the victims of any reduction
in the deductibility of those taxes. (New Jersey citizens
will approach the top of the list after Gov. James Florio's
new tax increases kick in.) Residents of those same states
are already among those that pay the highest total per-capita
federal taxes. Thus New Yorkers, citizens of Massachusetts,
and Marylanders will all feel more strongly the bite of the
tax burden their states impose on them.
   Conversely, the federal tax liability of residents in
states that have no income tax will not change one cent if
the deductibility of state income tax is eliminated.
Currently, seven states -- Florida, Nevada, South Dakota,
Texas, Washington, Wyoming and Alaska -- impose no individual
income tax. Three states -- Connecticut, New Hampshire, and
Tennessee -- impose no levy on earned income, taxing interest
and dividends only. (Connecticut also taxes capital gains.)
Although residents of such states do not gain absolutely,
they do gain relative to those of high income-tax states. The
new disparity might well cause people to "vote with their
feet" and move from high-tax states to lower-tax states. In
this age of computers and faxes, why choose to live in
high-tax states like New York or New Jersey at all?
   ---
   Mr. Merski is director of fiscal affairs at the Tax
Foundation in Washington, D.C.
   ---
          Per-Capita State and Local Income Taxes
                                                                                                       

                                   PER-CAPITA
   STATE                          INCOME TAXES    RANK
                                                                                                       

   New York                         $876.18         1
   Maryland                          773.59         2
   Massachusetts                     676.64         3
   Minnesota                         609.57         4
   Delaware                          606.27         5
   Hawaii                            569.76         6
   Wisconsin                         477.85         7
   Oregon                            463.91         8
   Maine                             460.76         9
   Virginia                          458.50        10
   Ohio                              455.14        11
   California                        454.34        12
   North Carolina                    429.09        13
   Michigan                          428.58        14
   Rhode Island                      391.20        15
   Utah                              377.23        16
   Georgia                           377.13        17
   Iowa                              375.77        18
   Pennsylvania                      374.44        19
   Vermont                           362.05        20
   Indiana                           352.15        21
   Colorado                          351.39        22
   Kentucky                          345.12        23
   New Jersey                        331.26        24
   Kansas                            331.19        25
   Missouri                          329.42        26
   South Carolina                    328.84        27
   Montana                           302.82        28
   Idaho                             280.15        29
   Illinois                          272.31        30
   Nebraska                          269.68        31
   Oklahoma                          256.87        32
   Arkansas                          249.23        33
   Arizona                           245.83        34

   West Virginia                     210.12        36
   New Mexico                        201.55        37
   North Dakota                      170.94        38
   Mississippi                       134.82        39
   Louisiana                         130.60        40
   Connecticut                       108.89        41
   New Hampshire                      27.51        42
   Tennessee                          16.27        43
   Alaska                                 0        44
   Florida                                0        44
   Nevada                                 0        44
   South Dakota                           0        44
   Texas                                  0        44
   Washington                             0        44
   Wyoming                                0        44
   Average                          $364.00
                                                                                                       

   Note: Seven states tie at rank 44 because they have no
individual income tax.
   Source: Tax Foundation, Fiscal Year 1988
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Entergy Repurchase Program
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   ETR
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW ORLEANS -- Entergy Corp. said it is increasing its
repurchase program on its common by a third, to $200 million
a year from the $150 million level set last November.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mapco to Buy Back Common
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   MDA
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TULSA, Okla. -- Mapco Inc., an energy concern, said it
will buy as many as 2.5 million of its common shares in
open-market purchases from time to time and will use these
shares mainly to replace stock issued periodically in
connection with various company stock benefit plans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   It's No Use Telling These Jumpy
   Lovers to Look Before You Leap
   ----
   By Sue-Sun Yom
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   BASTROP, Texas -- When the Frog went a-courtin', he didn't
risk being squashed flat. But that's what his kissin' cousin,
Bufo Houstonensis, faces here when he feels amorous.
   Now safe sex may be only a hop, skip and a jump away for
this rare and endangered species, otherwise known as Houston
Toads. And it's all because of a bunch of humans who set out
to save some trees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But we're leaping ahead of our story.
   It seems that at mating time, these lovesick toads seek
the seductive surroundings of local ponds; and that, sadly,
can mean having to cross State Highway 21.
   For a long time, few people here cared about the toads'
risky love life. But last fall, after a rash of accidents
involving cars and trees, the state highway department
proposed cutting down 700 to 1,000 loblolly pines along a
stretch of Highway 21. Soon 50 or 60 angry Bastrop County
residents were hopping on buses to Austin, the state capital,
to protest.
   Although they got the highway department to ax its plan,
the protesters were still suspicious. "Finally we just had to
use this toad thing on them, otherwise they would have done
whatever they wanted," claims Don A. Fries, organizer of
Bastrop's Save the Pines Committee.
   The "toad thing" led to an $18,500 Texas Parks and
Wildlife Department study that turned up six hopping and 12
squashed toads on the highway and concluded that the state
had to do something for the federally protected species.
   The answer: Along with an auto guardrail, the state should
install 28,000 feet of concave, 16-inch-high plastic
"toadrail" to keep the creatures off the roadway, and provide
underground "toad tunnels" to ensure alternate access to
breeding grounds. (Such tunnels can be found in England, but
these just might become America's first toad-tunnels of
love.)
   Now the state is awaiting federal approval of one of two
plans, both of which call for the felling of only 105 trees.
   Andrew H. Price, the state zoologist who wrote the toad
rescue plan, is happy. "There are a number of people who like
toads, including myself," he says. Bastrop residents are
glad, too, because their beloved trees are out of the woods.
   But even now, few here seem sure what a Houston Toad looks
like. "I don't know how they can tell one squashed toad from
another. I've never talked to anybody who's ever seen a
Houston Toad live," confesses Bastrop Mayor David Lock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   New Ms. Magazine
   Makes Its Debut,
   Minus Advertising
   ---
   Price Rises but Experts Doubt
   Its Chances of Survival;
   Adding a Literary Flavor
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5A
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Defying the skeptics, Ms. magazine -- sans
advertising -- has returned from the dead, but its longevity
is anything but assured.
   The new Ms. emerges today on newsstands and at Waldenbooks
and B. Dalton bookstores nationwide. The premier issue starts
with a bang: a long essay entitled "Sex, Lies &amp; Advertising,"
by Ms. founder Gloria Steinem exploring how women's magazines
shamelessly cater to advertisers. Lang Communications Inc.,
publisher of the feminist magazine, suspended publishing Ms.
in December 1989, after large declines in advertising and
costly attempts by past owners to increase subscribers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To compensate for its lack of advertising, the new Ms.
must now survive purely on circulation revenue from newsstand
sales and subscribers. On newsstands, its cover price is now
$4.50 -- up from $2.25. Ms.'s annual subscription rate of $40
a year makes it one of the industry's most expensive
magazines. But readers who act immediately can take an
introductory "founding subscriber" rate of $30. Old Ms.
subscribers will be able to pay $25 a year.
   Foregoing advertising allows Chairman Dale Lang to operate
Ms. on a much smaller budget, since the magazine can do
without expensive direct mail campaigns and has no need for a
salaried sales staff. But industry experts continue to
question whether Ms. will find enough readers at the
expensive subscription rate to survive. Only a handful of
successful magazines, such as Consumer Reports, don't accept
advertising.
   Mr. Lang, an entrepreneur who dabbles in television as
well as publishing, last year promised to relaunch the
magazine without advertising and to let the magazine resume
its more vigorous feminist stance, which it had softened in
recent years. Ms., which was founded in 1972, floundered in
the late 1980s as the feminist movement waned and much of the
editorial content of Ms. was imitated by other women's
magazines. The new Ms. boasts a decidedly more literary air:
Its contents include poems, long essays and photojournalism.
   Helped by heavily discounted subscriptions, Ms. had
reached a circulation of 550,000 by its last issue. A Lang
spokeswoman said the magazine can still cover its costs with
fewer than 100,000 subscribers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Trump Card Played
   On Banks, Taxpayers
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   X.TMP
</CO>
<IN>
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   In your June 27 news article you mention that the banks
agreed on the amounts Mr. Trump could spend on charitable
contributions and personal/household expenses. The figure
published by other papers was about $450,000 a month, to be
reduced to $350,000 a month within a number of years.
   I consider it completely amoral, not to say repugnant, to
grant a man $5.4 million for his pocket money, a man who
built castles on air bragging that he never used his own
money, who has misused these borrowed funds to the detriment
of the people involved. Banks will suffer large losses, these
losses will be deductible from their taxes, so that
ultimately it will be the taxpayer who pays for it all.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Savings-and-loan directors are being tried for fraud; Mr.
Trump gets $5.4 million a year instead.
   Peter Manasse
   Monte Carlo
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board Is Said to Be Set to Select
   William Donaldson as Next Chairman
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange is set to tap
William H. Donaldson, a founder of the securities firm
Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Inc., as its next chairman,
according to people familiar with the exchange.
   The selection of Mr. Donaldson to succeed John J. Phelan
Jr. would cap the exchange's six-month search for a new
chief. Mr. Phelan, for six years the Big Board's chairman and
chief executive officer, will retire at year end. The move
would indicate that the Big Board -- which has been slowly
losing market share to regional and electronic exchanges --
wants a high-profile outsider to lead it through tougher
times.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Donaldson's expected appointment would be a blow for
Richard A. Grasso, the exchange's president and chief
operating officer. Mr. Grasso, who has been actively lobbying
to succeed Mr. Phelan, indicated to exchange members recently
that a choice for the chairmanship will be announced soon.
   The selection of Mr. Donaldson could be derailed, of
course. A final decision by the exchange's board is expected
to be made within two weeks. But Big Board insiders say Mr.
Donaldson has emerged as the clear leader, and they would be
stunned if he weren't appointed.
   A spokesman for the Big Board declined to confirm or deny
Mr. Donaldson's expected appointment. He said only that
members of the Big Board's eight-member search committee
"have been diligently and thoughtfully talking to people
throughout the securities industry, as well as key corporate
leaders for their input," and that their work has been
presented to the exchange's board for review.
   The 59-year-old Mr. Donaldson, who now heads Donaldson
Enterprises Inc., a merchant banking and money management
firm, couldn't be reached to comment.
   One of the three founders of the securities firm that
bears his name, Mr. Donaldson left Donaldson Lufkin in 1973
to become U.S. undersecretary of state to Henry Kissinger.
Later, Mr. Donaldson was founder and first dean of Yale
University's School of Organization and Management.
   Mr. Donaldson still has strong ties to top Washington
officials, associates say, including President Bush. He also
serves as a board member of several corporations, including
Honeywell Inc. This broad-based background, Big Board
insiders say, makes Mr. Donaldson a logical choice for
chairman.
   Big Board officials say the exchange needs a strong leader
to fill the shoes of Mr. Phelan, who is widely credited with
helping reassure investors during the October 1987 stock
market crash. The Big Board's search committee is known to
have brought up such names as famed investor Warren Buffett,
chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.; Frank T. Cary, former
chairman of International Business Machines Corp.; and
investment banker James D. Wolfensohn. But some of them
didn't appear interested in the job.
   One individual considered early for exchange chief was
Richard H. Jenrette, another of Donaldson Lufkin's founders
and currently chairman of Donaldson Lufkin's parent,
Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S.
   And John S. Chalsty, Donaldson Lufkin's president and
chief executive officer, was named in June as a Big Board
vice chairman. Mr. Chalsty is the highest-ranking officer of
the exchange from a large Wall Street firm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Inverse Correlation
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The less we know of a problem,
   The more apt we are to shout it;
   Those who have the right answers are apt
   To be more restrained about it.
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   ---
   Keeping It Simple
                                                                                                       

   The secret of what life's all about
   Was answered by the sages.
   Life's about one day at a time,
   Regardless of what your age is.
   -- Robert Half.
   ---
   Fend for Yourself
                                                                                                       

   They say we live in a service economy. If so, it's mostly
self-service.
   -- Gil Stern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Take 20,000 tsp flour...
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   In your June 28 article you note that Austin, Texas, holds
the Guinness World Record for the largest cake ever created
(90,000 pounds). Yes, Texas did hold the record. But that
record was broken on Oct. 18, 1989, in a small town in
northeast Alabama. Fort Payne, Ala. (population 15,000) is
the current record-holder, with a cake weighing 128,238
pounds. The record was certified by Guinness in March.
   We're proud of our accomplishment, and our small-town
"can-do" spirit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gary Gengozian
   Fort Payne, Ala.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing Gets KLM Order
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   BA KLM EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Boeing Co. said KLM Royal Dutch Airlines
ordered two Boeing 747-400 freighter aircraft and took
options on two.
   The firm order for the two aircraft is valued at $325
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   The Pleasure Principle
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   In reply to Prof. Donald A. Coffin's interesting
mathematical dissertation (Letters, June 22) on the sale of
Renoir's "Au Moulin de la Galette" (Leisure &amp; Arts article,
May 24), no consideration was given to the value of the
pleasure the owner enjoyed for the many years of ownership of
this great painting.
   While this cannot be expressed monetarily, it is obvious
to many collectors that the sheer joy of living with this
great work would be a reward in itself.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Herbert Gussman
   Tulsa, Okla.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   MAD in the Mideast
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Thank you for the interview with Saddam Hussein, president
of Iraq ("Dictator Speaks," page one, June 28). It provided
Arab insights into the Middle East situation that are usually
not carried by other major American newspapers. You are to be
commended for providing readers with the other side of the
story.
   President Hussein's suggestion that the U.S. lend atomic
weapons to Iraq is of interest. Mutually assured destruction
may be the only effective way to prevent aggression in that
part of the world.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   George W. Polhemus
   Pembroke, N.C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New York Panel Asks
   For Special Inquiry
   Into Nynex Subsidiary
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   NYN
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   The New York state Consumer Protection Board is asking
state regulators to conduct a special probe into whether
phone customers were hurt by alleged improprieties at Nynex
Corp.'s purchasing unit.
   The board plans to file a petition today requesting the
state Public Service Commission cut New York Telephone rates
by $31 million in addition to the $290 million rate reduction
and $164 million refund it proposed two weeks ago. New York
Telephone has asked the PSC for a $1.4 billion rate increase
over three years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Richard Kessel, executive director of the Consumer
Protection Board, said the $31 million was not a final
number, but rather a "marker" in the current rate case. The
final rollback, he said, could amount to much more. Mr.
Kessel said there wasn't enough time in the nine-month rate
case to fully investigate Materiel Enterprises Co. "If we
leave it in the rate case, we won't be able to give it the
attention it needs," he said.
   New York Telephone had no immediate reaction to the
Consumer Protection Board proposal, but a spokesman said the
company has been trying to keep the focus on the "critical
financial issues." The orderly process initially set up by
the PSC, he said, "has become sidetracked so much by what is
going on outside the hearing room." Hearings in the rate case
begin today.
   The rate case has unearthed alleged misconduct at annual
conventions for suppliers. Women allegedly were hired for
entertainment and sex at the conventions, which were
organized by a top executive in the purchasing unit who was
fired by the company in 1988. Nynex, which investigated the
matter in 1988 and dismissed two employees and disciplined
seven others, has said that employees who attended did so at
their own expense and on their own time. However, rate-case
documents indicate some Nynex attendees did not take vacation
time and that suppliers may have picked up hotel room tabs.
   The New York attorney general's office, a party to the New
York rate case, said it "completely supports" the idea of
separating the Materiel Enterprises investigation from the
rate case, but said the initial $31 million rate cut was far
too little. Charlie Donaldson, a lawyer in the attorney
general's office, said that the only full operations audit to
date -- examining contracts for equipment removals from
telephone central offices -- found $20.9 million in over
payments on $22.4 million of charges.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   Comic Electroshock for Young and Old
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   The pleasures of the rerun season are not many, but they
exist. For example, if you missed "The Simpsons" the first
time, you now have a chance to see what all the talk is
about, and also to ponder the singular crisis such a success
can produce.
   The creators of "The Simpsons" and the folks at Fox, you
see, have let it be known that they are in a gut-wrenching
dilemma because stores are selling Bart Simpson T-shirts by
the drove along with numerous other forms of Simpsoniana. The
producers say they fear the show's image will be cheapened,
its fans offended by this terrible commerce. Indeed, all over
Los Angeles TV executives are bewailing the threat of crass
commercialism -- a fact so inherently droll in itself that it
could be the premise for a successful sitcom.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For anyone who hasn't yet made acquaintance with "The
Simpsons," it purports to be about an animated children's
cartoon family, but two minutes into any episode and it also
is wholly adult satire. Five-year-olds love it as a cartoon,
while 50-year-olds love it for its bite and wit.
   The Simpson brood consists of father Homer, his
long-suffering wife, Marge, their heroically cynical son
Bart, one regular-size female child and one baby daughter.
Week after week this clan gets caught in a mess, usually the
fault of Homer, a braggart and a lout, but an often
sympathetic braggart and lout. Every new stew of troubles
sends the Simpsons off on a wild ride, hurling coldly precise
barbs at the absurdities of the age.
   In one segment, Homer decides the family should seek the
counsel of a therapist, one Dr. Marvin Monroe, the sort of
professional luminary who advertises on late-night TV. During
the visit, the Simpsons are connected to electric generators,
and told to commence expressing themselves by giving each
other small shocks. They set about trying to fry one another,
while the therapy industry comes under assault by a barrage
of one-liners. That is the cartoon part, but there is, as
always, a larger point animating events -- in this case, such
dubious cures as electric shock "aversion therapy." One
recalls, in particular, the obedience experiments of the late
Stanley Milgram, who years ago made news with a scientific
study showing how astonishingly easy it was to get his
subjects to zap unseen victims with what they believed were
higher and higher voltages, whenever the experimenter ordered
them to throw the switch.
   The range of political, cultural and social allusions per
"Simpsons" episode can be breathtaking. In one segment, Homer
gives Marge a bowling ball for her birthday, it being his
habit to buy gifts that only he will be able to use. The
non-athletic Marge, in revenge, rushes off to the nearest
lanes, ball in hand, attracting on the way a tall, dark and
gallant French rake who has somewhat improbably dedicated his
life to the art of bowling. The solemnity and dialogue of his
lessons, their mimicry of every Hollywood portrayal of
ferocious ballet teachers and other mad maestros who live
only for their art, are hilarious.
   The same episode yields a full-scale dream sequence with a
facsimile Fred and Ginger, whirling around a room to "Night
And Day" -- Marge's fantasy of her assignation with the
bowling maestro. In the end, Marge must choose between
romance with the kegling Frenchman and fidelity to dreadful
Homer. Marge drives toward the Frenchman's lair, changes her
mind, and rushes off to reclaim Homer at his factory. And
now, with every detail in place, "The Simpsons" unreels its
version of the triumphal last scene of "An Officer and a
Gentleman" -- in which Richard Gere rushes into the factory
to claim Debra Winger from the assembly line.
   Some aspects of "The Simpsons" have upset those who worry
that the rascally and cynical Bart Simpson may not be the
best role model for his younger fans. Better Bart than
Madonna, I say.
   In one sequence, the show's creators find themselves in a
quandary, because Bart has to learn to defend himself against
the violent school bully. No half measures for a Simpson.
Bart studies total war strategies from a military expert,
enlists schoolmates in a large army, and arms them for
merciless combat against the bully. You can see the problems
this posed for sensitive producers: scenes involving military
training, strategy, weapons, militance, revenge, joy in
taking that revenge -- in short everything young people are
supposed to be taught to disapprove of, everything that is
anathema to progressive, enlightened thinkers.
   Not only did the whole thing look like a lot of fun, the
military strategy was shown to work, as such things do in
life. The show's creators dealt handily with their exposure
to attack from non-violence crusaders by tagging on a
postscript explaining that "The Simpsons" did not mean to
glorify war. Before this message could become oppressive in
the normal way of such moralizing, the voiceover rushed on
with the sprightly observation that there were no good wars
except the Revolutionary War, World War II and "Star Wars."
   "The Simpsons," in short, is one of the best things to
have come around in a long time. All the handwringing by its
producers and others worrying about commercialism and
overkill, of course, says something about the atmosphere in
which television's creative minds work. In that atmosphere,
all success is perceived as a phenomenon, the product of some
blip or fragile fashion nobody can explain and that some new
breeze can blow away as easily as it came. Best not to offend
viewers by vulgar sales of cups imprinted with the name of
their favorite show.
   Does this make any sense? The truth is that every
long-term television success has always been wholly
understandable, the roots of that success obvious. Viewers
tastes hang on altogether graspable matters such as a good
story, the appeal of a character, even -- dare one say it? --
good writing. So enduring are viewers tastes for such things,
they still would be watching new episodes of the "The Mary
Tyler Moore Show" if they were available, as they will
continue to watch "Murphy Brown" and, from the way things
look, "The Simpsons."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Visa Gets Aggressive
   In Battle for Users
   Of American Express
   ---
   Advertising Campaign Hopes
   To Convince Merchants
   That Bank Card Is Better
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP SLH
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Visa International is going after American Express Co.
again -- and this time it's more aggressive than ever.
   Visa will unveil an ad campaign today, its first-ever
directed to merchants, to convince them that American
Express's higher fee to merchants is exorbitant. Visa also
charges the so-called discount rate -- the fee merchants pay
for each sale made with a card. But Visa's fees are about 2%
for charges made with its card, while American Express's fee
schedule calls for payments of 3.5% of each sale made with an
American Express card.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the latest campaign to woo customers from American
Express, a unit of Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc., Visa
is planning a direct-mail package to 250,000 merchants. The
mailing will ask the merchants to remove all American Express
signs, putting Visa signs on doors and cash registers
instead. Visa also urges merchants to ask its customers,
"Would you like to put this on your Visa?" when ringing up a
sale.
   The move on American Express comes as Visa's card ranks
are steadily increasing. But the company has been trying to
burnish its image by attracting more of the heavy-charging
consumers that make up the bulk of American Express's
franchise.
   "We feel the merchant community doesn't have the real
facts on how the two brands compare," said Brad Morgan,
executive vice president at Visa. Mr. Morgan said Visa is
escalating its effort to overcome "the myth that merchants
have no choice but to accept American Express if they want to
go after the upscale consumer."
   The ad campaign, which makes its debut in many
publications this week, pitches a toll-free number that
merchants can call to get a "Profit Improvement Calculator."
This product shows merchants how much money they would keep
if they converted American Express sales to Visa sales.
   Experts who watch the credit card industry predicted it
isn't likely many merchants will offer Visa cards exclusively
as a result of the campaign. But some said Visa's strategy is
sound: "This is the first time that anybody has ever
presented a real strong case for the merchant to look at the
bottom line," said Spencer Nilson, publisher of the Nilson
Report, a newsletter. "Most merchants really make more money
honoring bank cards."
   American Express indicated it will retaliate, but wouldn't
provide specifics. "This gives new meaning to the expression
`frustration marketing,'" a spokesman said. He said that
while the company charges higher fees, it "also delivers a
customer that spends nearly three times as much as the
customer who comes in and uses a bank card." American Express
said average annual spending on its card is $3,000, compared
with $1,050 for a bank credit card.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LAB NOTES
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   Taking the First Snips
   At Alzheimer's Deposits
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   CHEMICAL "SCISSORS" in the brain may hold the key for
future Alzheimer's disease therapy.
   Researchers increasingly believe that Alzheimer's disease
is caused by deposits in the brain of a hard, insoluble
protein that kills nerve cells. The substance, beta amyloid,
is sprinkled in rope-shaped plaques in the brains of people
with Alzheimer's, a degenerative brain disorder responsible
for about 100,000 deaths a year in the U.S. Biotechnology
labs and universities currently are racing to learn how brain
cells assemble and lay down these plaques.
   Since this spring, several labs have identified natural
enzymes that snip damaging shards of the beta amyloid from a
larger "precursor" protein normally produced by cells
throughout the body. Scientists now think some defect in
enzymes that control the brain's normal handling of this
precursor protein causes the disease. Chemicals that suppress
activity of these "scissors" -- or promote other enzymes --
might serve as prototypes for new drugs.
   Scientists at Cephalon Inc., West Chester, Pa., recently
identified an enzyme dubbed "clipsin" that's found in higher
amounts in brain samples from deceased Alzheimer's patients.
A new drug might inhibit clipsin. Researchers at Athena Inc.,
San Francisco, have found another enzyme, called secretase,
that naturally chops up the beta amyloid. Another drug might
mimic the action of secretase.
                                                                                                       

   Vitamin A May Assist
   Fight Against Measles
                                                                                                       

   HELP may be on the way for the recent surge in U.S.
measles cases.
   The Centers for Disease Control says 17,850 measles cases
were reported in the U.S. through May, a 40% increase from a
year earlier. The disease caused 41 deaths in 1989, up from
35 a year earlier in the U.S., where some children in urban
areas aren't being vaccinated.
   The highly contagious disease, which isn't serious for
most children, is normally treated with bed rest. But severe
complications, such as pneumonia, ear infections and
diarrhea, are on the rise. The problems are even more common
outside the U.S., where about two million children die from
the virus each year, making measles one of the world's major
killers.
   Now doctors in South Africa are reporting that measles can
be treated with injectable doses of vitamin A, which cut the
risk of death and complications in a study of 189 sick
children. The doctors, at the University of Cape Town, found
that among a group of children given 120 milligrams of
vitamin A, there were two deaths, while a similar group
administered a placebo had 10 deaths. The treated group also
recovered more quickly from pneumonia and diarrhea and spent
less time in the hospital.
   "The results . . . indicate a remarkable protective effect
of vitamin A," the researchers write in the New England
Journal of Medicine. Scientists suggested 50 years ago that
vitamin A might be useful against measles, but the first
clinical test came only two years ago. The new and larger
test provides the confirming proof expected to change
treatment world-wide, the researchers say.
                                                                                                       

   Another Site in Search
   For Mental-Illness Gene
                                                                                                       

   THE QUEST for genes that cause mental illnesses has turned
up a tantalizing clue.
   Scottish researchers believe they've found the approximate
location of a gene that, when damaged, may make some people
prone to depression and schizophrenia. The finding is
expected to spur scientists engaged in a frustrating hunt for
genes. Their efforts have been dogged in the past three years
by claims that have been questioned by subsequent findings.
   In their report, researchers at Royal Edinburgh Hospital
and Western General Hospital in Edinburgh say they've found a
large family in which inheritance of a damaged bit of genetic
material may be responsible for an unusually high prevalence
of psychiatric disorders. The scientists discovered a strange
mutation in the genetic material of 34 of 77 family members,
suggesting it was passed from generation to generation.
Sixteen of the 34 people with the mutation had psychiatric
problems; only five of the 43 without it had a diagnosable
illness.
   The scientists, led by David St Claire, wrote in the
British journal Lancet that the mutation occurred at a spot
where a gene might be located on chromosome 11, one of the 23
matching pairs of chromosomes in every cell. The chromosome
11 site is intriguing, because it's near a gene that produces
dopamine, a chemical that helps nerve signals travel about
the brain.
   Three years ago, researchers found evidence of a
manic-depression gene on chromosome 11 in studies of a large
Amish family in Pennsylvania. But re-analysis of the data
overturned that finding last year. The gene tracked by the
Scottish researchers is on a different side of chromosome 11.
                                                                                                       

   Odds &amp; Ends
                                                                                                       

   TEXAS A&amp;M University researchers say they have produced a
better polio vaccine by modifying the polio virus. Colin
Young says he blocked the germ's tendency to mutate by
tinkering with its DNA. A vaccine based on the more stable
virus won't vary from batch to batch and is less likely to
cause complications sometimes tied to current vaccines, he
says. . . . U.S. Agriculture Department researchers in
Peoria, Ill., say they have invented a low-cholesterol,
whipped-cream topping by replacing butterfat with vegetable
oils. The dessert product would come as a frozen fat-free
milk concentrate that can be thawed, flavored and whipped.
Tests show it can stay foamy for 24 hours.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chyron Corp. Shipments
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CHY
</CO>
<LP>
   MELVILLE, N.Y. -- Chyron Corp., a maker of electronic
graphics equipment, said its fourth-quarter shipments totaled
about $10 million, compared with a projected $14 million.
   The company blamed the shortfall, in part, on production
problems due to "working capital pressures," as well as soft
market conditions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also said it is continuing to discuss its
financial situation with European American Bank and
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. to arrange a restructuring of
bank loans. The company has been in technical default on
certain loans since mid-1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Souter's Rulings Show a Reluctance
   To Support Suits Against Business
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5B
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- On issues affecting business and consumers,
Judge David Souter's court decisions have been classically
conservative -- reluctant to expand business liability and
deferential to state regulatory officials.
   But in his nearly seven years on the New Hampshire Supreme
Court, Judge Souter -- President Bush's U.S. Supreme Court
nominee -- had little or no experience with some of the major
business issues being raised at the state level: regulation
of securities, antitrust enforcement, and limits on punitive
damage awards.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many of the business-related rulings among Judge Souter's
221 New Hampshire Supreme Court decisions involve disputes of
a type that are rarely if ever decided by the U.S. Supreme
Court. Many involve disputes over contracts, local tax
assessments and zoning. A handful of his rulings written for
the five-member court, however, shed some light on his
approach.
   One apparent theme is an unwillingness to create theories
of liability for businesses or to recognize new rights to sue
for damages.
   In a 1986 decision written by Judge Souter, the court
refused to impose the toughest standard of liability on a
local developer in Grantham, N.H., for contaminating the land
and groundwater of a homeowner with gasoline and grease that
leaked from a storage tank. The homeowner argued that the
developer's action was so hazardous that the developer should
be liable even if there wasn't any evidence of negligence.
But Judge Souter rejected the argument as imposing too tough
a standard.
   And in a medical malpractice decision in 1987, Judge
Souter threw out a lawsuit against a hospital in Dover, N.H.
The lawsuit, filed by a woman who suffered nerve damage in
her arm when a blood sample was taken, charged that the
hospital failed to train the technician properly or to
provide a proper chair for the patient. Judge Souter said the
patient didn't prove any fault by the hospital.
   Bruce Fein, a Washington lawyer and conservative
columnist, says these and other cases show a reluctance by
Judge Souter to impose liability based on what Mr. Fein calls
"some avant-garde, or stretching, theory of law." But, Mr.
Fein says, Judge Souter's record is too thin "to reach any
conclusions about a pronounced approach in the area of
business law."
   Robert Viles, dean of Franklin Pierce Law Center in
Concord, N.H., agrees there isn't much evidence from which to
evaluate the record. But on business cases, he says, Judge
Souter "has his own mind and sometimes applies it to come up
with a rather unusual analysis of the law."
   Judge Souter doesn't shy away from finding violations of
the constitution -- the state constitution, that is -- but he
is loathe to find new constitutional rights. In 1985, he
ruled that the state's meal tax was unconstitutional because
operators of vending machines that sold candy and soda were
required to pay the tax, while proprietors of supermarkets
who sold the same items on their shelves were exempt.
   But in a 1986 case, Judge Souter ruled that a group of
homeowners in Conway, N.H., didn't have the right to sue for
damages over alleged discrimination in violation of the state
constitution. The homeowners alleged that local officials
refused to build roads for them, in part because they were
only seasonal residents. Allowing the lawsuit, Judge Souter
wrote, "would inevitably lead to the conversion of every road
dispute into a constitutional . . . action."
   The 50-year-old Judge Souter's business decisions
occasionally display a bit of a conservative judicial
philosophy -- one that sees a limited role for the courts.
When the court in 1985 struck down a contract that Laconia,
N.H., had awarded after receiving bids, Judge Souter wrote a
lone dissent. The court, he noted, concluded that the ruling
might benefit the city by improving the bidding system. "I
can only say that the public has the power to obtain that
benefit by statute or city ordinance," he wrote.
   In numerous decisions, Judge Souter's opinions called for
deference to state regulatory agencies or government
officials responsible for making decisions. One example was a
1985 ruling upholding the state utility commission's setting
of tolls for a privately owned bridge across the Connecticut
River between Charlestown, N.H., and Springfield, Vt.
   And his decisions contain some discussion of the role of
precedent. In a 1987 dissent, he chastised the court for
abandoning a state banking law precedent in a 3-2 vote in
which one lower court judge temporarily took the place of one
of the justices who had been disqualified from the case. He
disagreed with the ruling and questioned its value as a
precedent because it had the support of only two justices.
   As with other aspects of Judge Souter's record, however,
there may be more uncertainties than answers. Alan Slobodin
of the Washington Legal Foundation, a conservative
public-interest firm, says he viewed retiring Justice William
Brennan as an ally in ruling that the First Amendment
protects advertising and other "commercial" speech and in
expressing concerns about too much jury discretion in
awarding punitive damages. "Brennan was a very important vote
for us on those issues, and we don't know about Souter," he
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eastern Enterprises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EFU X.BOS
</CO>
<IN>
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WESTON, Mass. -- Eastern Enterprises said the
Massachusetts attorney general proposed a settlement with the
company's Boston Gas Co. unit granting the unit about
two-thirds of a requested rate increase.
   The proposed settlement, submitted to the state's
Department of Public Utilities, includes an annual revenue
increase of $19.3 million, Eastern said. The Eastern unit
requested a rate increase of $29.6 million a year in a filing
on March 15.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If approved by the state, it would take effect Oct. 1, the
company said. Eastern operates barges, owns a natural gas
utility and sells water system components.
   Separately, Eastern said it agreed in principle to buy E&amp;H
Utility Sales Inc., Carol Stream, Ill. Terms weren't
disclosed. E&amp;H, which sells parts for municipal water
systems, has annual sales of about $17 million, Eastern said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Medicorp Inc. Offering
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   UMCI
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- United Medicorp Inc. said it sold two million
common shares -- 1,850,000 held by the medical insurance
claims processing company and 150,000 by stockholders -- for
$5 each in a public offering.
   Proceeds will be used to repay short-term debt, provide
funding for advance funding services, buy certain shares from
a holder and provide working capital.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   United Medicorp initially filed on June 4 to sell 2.5
million shares but later amended this filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Eppler, Guerin &amp; Turner
Inc. was the underwriter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   MIPS's Boesenberg
   Is Named President
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   MIPS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SUNNYVALE, Calif. -- MIPS Computer Systems Inc., a
computer concern, said it named Charles M. Boesenberg
president.
   Mr. Boesenberg, 42 years old, had been executive vice
president, marketing, and succeeds Robert C. Miller, 46, who
remains chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Boesenberg
joined MIPS from Apple Computer Inc., where he had been the
top sales executive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MIPS makes microprocessers based on a semiconductor
technology known as reduced instruction set computing, or
RISC, which allows for fast and powerful computing. The
company has been growing rapidly for several years and went
public last fall. In the first six months of 1990, it earned
$7.5 million, or 30 cents a share, on revenue of $71.8
million.
   Mr. Miller said Mr. Boesenberg's appointment will
strengthen and broaden MIPS's management structure, which he
said is necessary for MIPS to deal with anticipated growth.
"This new structure should better position MIPS to become a
$1 billion corporation in the 1990s," Mr. Miller said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   Hunting That Elusive Creature, the Big Deal
   ----
   By Bryan Jamison
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   My brother and I run a small manufacturing company. Last
year we started looking for another small company to acquire
to complement our product line. It sounded easy enough. And
as we entered the world of corporate takeovers, exciting
imagery beckoned.
   There would surely be streams of phone calls from
impeccably credentialed professionals giving us first crack
at the very best deals, all with a decade or more of
carefully audited financial statements. We would soon find
the perfect company at an attractive price. And, after a few
hours of cordial negotiations, there would be boatloads of
cash for us to divide up through the cigar smoke when the
deal was done. We also envisioned getting great mileage at
cocktail parties by mentioning, "Well, right now we're
working on a deal to acquire another company." That's more
impressive than "Well, right now we're repaving the parking
lot."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But as we reluctantly suspected, reality doesn't quite
jibe with expectations when one tries to find a small company
to buy. What follows is a travelogue of some of the fun we've
had along the way.
   So-called business brokers are an unavoidable pothole in
the road to buying a small business. Many of these characters
have apparently gone through a rigorous training program
comparable in scope to a notary public. Put a silk tie on a
used car salesman, and you have a business broker. My
favorite sales pitch from a broker is the "you can easily
double sales" routine. It goes something like this:
   The owner was happy with the level of business he had, and
could have expanded the business with very little effort but
he simply didn't want to. Therefore, a buyer can come in and
easily double sales. Naturally, the lazy owner fully expects
you to compensate him for the work he didn't do, so the
asking price reflects the doubling of sales.
   These deals get a quick, "No, thanks." If I want to easily
double my investment, I go to the stock market. Or the
commodities market, where I can easily triple my investment.
   Some business brokers require a potential buyer to put up
a cash "deposit" before he is permitted to dig through
financial statements. The broker keeps the money in escrow
and if anything is later found to reduce the value of the
business below the asking price (perish the thought), the
buyer theoretically will get some money back. This is
probably a screening method so brokers can be assured of
dealing with buyers who are more stupid than they are.
   Imagine if this were done in other industries. Looking at
houses? Hand the realtor a cashier's check before you walk
through that door. A car? Cash up front before the test
drive. Don't worry, we'll keep your money in a real safe
place.
   Business brokers have also taught us a curious definition
of "net cash flow." This usually turns out to be earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and all of the owner's
and family members' salary and benefits. Not much of anything
is netted out, actually. This means that if you work for
free, pay no taxes and secure an acquisition loan at 0%
interest, you will pocket 100 grand. But in the real world,
darn it, inconveniences like salaries, taxes and interest
expenses tend to occur. One broker told me that ideally we
would buy a company with money we already had so we could
save the interest costs of a loan. Hey, why didn't I think of
that?
   Frequently one gets to deal directly with the owner of a
small business, which can be even worse than working with a
broker. With these opportunities (and the term is used
loosely) about the most one can hope for in a financial
statement is that the balance sheet addition is correct.
Sometimes for the buyer's edification there is also an income
statement in the form of a one- or two-year-old handwritten
tax return. CPAs? Forget it. These statements are usually
cranked out by a "preparer," outside bookkeeper or owner's
spouse who's good at ciphering.
   Small business owners often like to use the "MMM" method
of business valuation. MMM, or Make Me a Millionaire,
determines the asking price of a business by multiplying the
number of owners by $1 million. Some astute sellers use the
more complex COMBAT method (Clear One Million Bucks After
Tax), in which the asking price is grossed up by capital
gains taxes, commissions and whatnot so the lucky seller will
indeed pocket a million big ones after the sale. Any
correlation between the MMM and COMBAT methods and actual
value is purely coincidental.
   Sometimes a seller will try to justify an exorbitant
asking price by the more-than-meets-the-eye approach. With a
sincere look, the owner will confide that the business really
makes a lot more money than what is shown on the statements,
but he or she wants to keep taxes down so not everything gets
reported. "You see, I lie to the IRS, but you're my friend
and I'm telling you the truth," says the person you just met
30 minutes ago.
   The two-other-people negotiating ploy is another whopper
used by business owner/sellers. Without fail, every time we
look at a company we are informed that two other people are
also looking at the deal. In other words, we'd better hurry
up and buy it because one of those two people might snap it
up first. I'm getting the suspicion that those two other
people we keep hearing about are actually the same two people
each time -- professional window shoppers whose very presence
makes buyers across the land whip out their checkbooks.
   We haven't found the right deal yet. Still, we continue to
look, like the proverbial optimistic boy who digs in the pile
of manure convinced that there's a pony in there somewhere.
So for now, it's back to work. At least we still get to tell
people "Well, right now we're working on this acquisition
deal . . ."
   ---
   Mr. Jamison alternates with his brother as president of
Burkhead Manufacturing Co. in Houston, Texas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Valero Completes Offering
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   VLO
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN ANTONIO, Texas -- Valero Energy Corp., an energy
concern, said it completed an offering of 4,750,000 common
shares at $15.25 each and that net proceeds of about $69
million will be used to help finance capital projects.
   Managing underwriters for the offering, which included one
million shares in Europe, were Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
and Salomon Brothers Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   USX Agrees to Pay
   $34 Million in Fines,
   Cleanup Costs at Plant
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   X
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- USX Corp. will pay about $34 million in
penalties and cleanup costs for dumping waste water from its
Gary, Ind., steel mill, under an agreement announced Friday
by federal officials.
   "We believe this consent decree is a major victory for the
much-abused Grand Calumet River," said Ralph R. Bauer, deputy
regional administrator for the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency. "We expect this decree to provide a framework for
improvement and cleanup at the USX plant."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The out-of-court settlement resolves a 1988 lawsuit filed
by the federal government alleging that the Gary mill
exceeded waste-water discharge limits in the river. The
lawsuit also alleged that the company violated the federal
Clean Water Act in other ways between 1983 and 1988.
   "This is a consent decree," said a spokesman for USX's
Gary mill. "There are no admissions to any allegations. The
evidence that we are committed to the environment can be seen
by agreeing to this decree, which calls for spending beyond
what is statutorily required."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, July 27, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8% high, 7 15/16% low, 8% near closing bid,
8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for
overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.85% 5 to 44 days; 7.825% 45 to 59 days;
7.75% 60 to 89 days; 7.725% 90 to 119 days; 7.675% 120 to 149
days; 7.625% 150 to 179 days; 7.525% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 7.95%
30 days; 7.92% 60 days; 7.85% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.67% one month; 7.69% two
months; 7.71% three months; 7.88% six months; 8.06% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 7.95% one month; 7.95% three months;
7.95% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.85% 30 days; 7.77% 60 days; 7.72%
90 days; 7.65% 120 days; 7.60% 150 days; 7.57% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/16% - 7 15/16% one month; 8
1/16% - 7 15/16% two months; 8 1/16% - 7 15/16% three months;
8 1/16% - 7 15/16% four months; 8 1/16% - 7 15/16% five
months; 8 1/16% - 7 15/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/16% one month;
8 1/8% three months; 8 1/8% six months; 8 1/4% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 11.25%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, July 23, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.49% 13 weeks; 7.40% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 9.86%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.375% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.80%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.45%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.75%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   TRINIDAD'S LEADER OFFERED to resign if rebels agree to
free him.
   Prime Minister Robinson, taken captive Friday in a coup
attempt, promised to step down and call early elections if
his Moslem captors release him and about 30 other hostages.
At least 27 people reportedly have died in the violence that
erupted after several hundred insurgents with automatic
weapons seized control of broadcast buildings and the
Parliament. Robinson apparently made his offer as he and
other officials remained wired to what the rebels said were
explosives. Coup leader Abu Bakr, a former policeman in his
mid-40s, said the coup was intended to stop "poverty and the
destruction" of Trinidad and Tobago, a Caribbean nation with
high unemployment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A journalist who was inside the Parliament building when
it was stormed said Robinson and his interior minister had
both been shot in the leg.
   ---
   Anti-apartheid leader Mandela declared his African
National Congress "is not a communist party," but said his
organization will continue to fight for the South African
Communist Party's right to exist. He addressed a rally in
Soweto celebrating the re-emergence of the Communists after
40 years of being banned.
   ---
   A tanker and two barges collided in the Houston Ship
Channel on Saturday, sinking one of the oil-laden barges,
damaging the other, and spilling up to 50,000 gallons of
heavy oil into Galveston Bay, the Coast Guard said. The ship
channel was closed indefinitely following the accident.
   ---
   Armenia's Parliament voted to defy Gorbachev by suspending
the Soviet president's decree demanding that armed groups
turn in their weapons and disband within 15 days, according
to a representative of the Armenian National Movement, an
activist group. He said Parliament would take a second vote
today on confirming the suspension.
   ---
   New doubts were raised by a congressional panel and the
Justice Department about the reliability of Northrop
navigational units for Air Force nuclear cruise missiles.
Meanwhile, documents indicate the missile's main contractor,
Boeing, had been told about deficiencies the parts might have
at low temperatures.
   ---
   Looters swarmed through Chicago's west and southwest side
after a fire at a Commonwealth Edison generating plant
knocked out power for about 40,000 customers Saturday night.
Police reported 49 arrests on looting-related charges. The
utility said that power had been restored to about half the
affected customers by last night.
   ---
   Philippine volunteers in Baguio pulled an earthquake
survivor from the ruins of a hotel, where the 27-year-old man
had been trapped for 14 days, according to radio reports. Two
other Baguio survivors, rescued Friday, were reported in good
condition.
   ---
   A federal jury convicted six men -- five of them former
employees of the Luxembourg-based Bank of Credit and Commerce
International -- of conspiring to launder $14 million in
proceeds from the sale of cocaine. In January, BCCI pleaded
guilty to money-laundering charges and agreed to pay a $15.3
million fine.
   ---
   A California judge declared a mistrial in the second
McMartin child-molestation trial after jurors became
deadlocked. The Los Angeles district attorney said he
wouldn't try former preschool teacher Raymond Buckey a third
time. Jurors said they leaned toward acquittal on six of
eight counts against Buckey.
   ---
   Louisiana lawmakers maneuvered in a bid to override Gov.
Roemer's second veto in a month of tough anti-abortion
legislation. The bill Roemer vetoed Friday would have banned
abortions except to save the life of the mother and in cases
of aggravated rape and incest reported to police and a
physician no more than a week after they occurred.
   ---
   An aide to Palestinian leader Arafat said an official of
Israel's ruling Likud bloc had held talks with the Palestine
Liberation Organization and put forward a new proposal for
peace in the Middle East. But a senior adviser to Israel's
Prime Minister Shamir dismissed the claim as nonsense.
   ---
   Iraq and Kuwait will meet in Saudi Arabia tomorrow for
talks aimed at resolving their dispute over oil and
territory, officials said. Kuwait said it welcomed the
meeting, but said both nations should have a chance to air
their grievances.
   ---
   Died: Bruno Kreisky, 79, former chancellor of Austria who
forged a policy of neutrality during his 13-year tenure, in
Vienna, of a heart ailment...Albert Bowers, 60, chairman and
former chief executive officer of Syntex Corp., Thursday, in
Palo Alto, Calif., of complications from heart disease.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters -- Credit Markets:
   Bond Bears
   May Signal
   Time to Buy
   ---
   Analysts' Negativity,
   In Contrarian Style,
   Could Be Bullish Sign
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JNJ
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Lots of professional money managers are bearish on bonds
these days -- and that could be a signal for individual
investors to think about buying bonds next month at the
Treasury's big quarterly sale.
   Bearish sentiment has grown over the past month, mainly
because of inflation fears. Some investment advisers are
especially apprehensive because of the government's huge
borrowing needs to pay its bills. Another wave of borrowing
will be announced Wednesday afternoon, when the Treasury
discloses details of its multibillion-dollar August
refunding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A survey of some 50 fixed-income investment managers by
C.J. Lawrence, Morgan Grenfell Inc. last week found that 13%
considered themselves bearish, up sharply from just 4%
earlier in the month. Only 35% of those surveyed by the New
York investment firm were bullish, down from 53%.
   A separate survey of about 70 analysts and market advisers
by Hadady Corp., Pasadena, Calif., produced a similar
finding: Hadady's Bullish Consensus fell to 56 from its
recent high of 61 only two weeks before.
   But gloom can be a bullish cue. Going against the herd is
a strategy that's well known in the stock market. Over the
past year or two, it has proved to be a remarkably successful
bond-market strategy.
   Last Christmas, for instance, several surveys showed an
unusually large increase in bullish sentiment among
bond-market professionals. Shortly thereafter, bond prices
tumbled and yields rose. Even more striking was the high
level of bearishness in March 1989, just before bond prices
took off and yields declined.
   Now, if the bond-market "sentiment indicator" is right
this time, prices are again set to rise and yields to ease.
That could make the coming Treasury auction a great
opportunity for individual investors to lock in attractive
yields.
   Treasury notes and bonds, which pay interest free from all
state and local income taxes, currently offer yields from 8%
to just over 8.5%, depending on maturity. That's well above
the 7.80% national average yield on two-year bank
certificates of deposit and the 7.88% average seven-day
compound yield on money-market mutual funds.
   The yields available on risk-free Treasurys aren't that
much lower than the stock market's long-term return of 10%.
With stock prices near their all-time highs, several
market-watchers say stocks are probably headed for several
years of sub-par returns -- especially if the long-feared
recession finally arrives.
   Also, Treasury yields typically rise a bit in the days
before the quarterly refundings.
   Using surveys to gauge the sentiment of market pros and
then doing the opposite can be a risky strategy for
investors. Several finance professors who have studied
stock-market sentiment surveys contend these polls are
largely useless as contrary market indicators because they
emit too many wrong signals.
   Critics also say it's often difficult to gauge precisely
when investor sentiment has reached an extreme stage that
justifies taking action. "You often can't know until it's too
late," says Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase
Manhattan Bank.
   Nonetheless, the C.J. Lawrence survey, which began in
mid-1988, is beginning to look like a promising contrary
indicator of bond prices. "It's too early to say for sure,
but it seems to be building a nice track record, and it may
be a good contrary indicator," says Nancy Lazar, a senior
vice president at C.J. Lawrence.
   Richard Ishida, vice president, research, at Hadady's,
thinks the message from his firm's survey is clear: "It's
saying we are getting close to a good time to buy."
   The bond bears' big concern is inflation. The bears fear
the Federal Reserve isn't being tough enough in fighting
inflation, and they worry about pressure from the White House
and Congress to reflate the economy.
   Some bears bolster their argument by pointing to the
"yield curve," which measures the difference between
short-term and long-term interest rates. Lately, the yield
curve has "steepened," as short-term rates have fallen more
than long-term yields, widening the gap between short-term
and long-term rates.
   This steeper yield curve "has signaled the market's
displeasure" with the Fed's move, according to Gary
Schlossberg, economist at Wells Fargo Bank in San Francisco.
The steepening yield curve also could mean trouble for bonds
in the near future, several analysts say.
   But others think such fears are unfounded. Ms. Lazar and
colleague Edward S. Hyman at C.J. Lawrence say that although
the yield curve has steepened, it is still considerably
flatter than it has been historically. They also note that
the curve is actually flatter than it was at the beginning of
the 1984 bond rally, and thus represents another signal that
bonds are a good buy.
   Several investment advisers argue that anemic money-supply
growth and sluggish economic performance should spell lower
inflation over the next six months. "I expect inflation to
moderate," allowing the Fed to cut interest rates further,
says Chase's Mr. Fine.
   To be on the safe side, he suggests that investors stick
with three-year Treasury notes, rather than locking up their
money for longer periods, in 10-year notes or 30-year bonds.
The prices of shorter-term securities are also less volatile
in the "secondary," or resale market.
   Buying Treasury securities at the quarterly refundings
allows investors to deal directly with the government, rather
than going through a brokerage firm or other intermediary.
That saves money, because there aren't any commissions or
fees.
   The next refunding is tentatively slated for next week.
But the exact timing will depend on when Congress finally
gets around to raising the nation's debt ceiling, and that's
still anybody's guess.
   As usual, the sale is expected to include three-year notes
(which were yielding about 8.1% on Friday), 10-year notes
(yielding about 8.4% Friday) and 30-year bonds (yielding
nearly 8.5% Friday).
   Investors who want to buy at the refunding should contact
the nearest office of the Federal Reserve and ask for
information on the "Treasury Direct" system. Three-year
Treasury notes are sold in multiples of $5,000, while
longer-term Treasurys require investors to put up as little
as $1,000.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Bonds posted moderate gains after the government reported
weak economic data and a top Federal Reserve official
suggested that the nation's central bank will keep credit
policy steady.
   The bond market started to climb as soon as the market
opened, on news that inflation-adjusted gross national
product advanced at an anemic 1.2% annual rate in second
quarter. The gain was weaker than many economists had
projected.
   Market participants were also heartened by news that the
GNP price deflator, a broad measure of inflation, posted a
modest decline.
   "The GNP figures clearly washed out any lingering
expectations of economic strength," said Elliott Platt, a
senior vice president at Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette
Securities Corp. "The inflation figures clearly lessened
fears in the marketplace about runaway inflation."
   Bond prices climbed further following reports that Federal
Reserve Board Governor David Mullins suggested that current
monetary policy was sufficient to sustain moderate economic
growth.
   When trading ended, the Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond
had risen nearly 5/8 point, or about $6.25 for a bond with a
$1,000 face amount. The issue's yield, which moves in the
opposite direction from its price, eased to 8.48%.
   Yields on two-year notes ended at 7.98%, the first time
that yields on the securities ended below 8% in several
months.
   The decline in rates produced a flurry of corporate bond
offerings as corporate treasurers jumped at the chance to
refinance commercial paper with short-term and medium-term
debt.
   The biggest such deal on Friday was $250 million of
five-year notes issued by Johnson &amp; Johnson. The 8.5%
noncallable notes were priced at par to yield 8.50%.
   Tax-exempt municipal bonds finished the week unchanged to
1/8 point higher in moderate trading. Ahead on the municipal
calendar, only $321 million of bonds are expected to be
priced this week, down from $1.6 billion priced last week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Two EC Commissioners Are at Odds
   In Dispute Centered on Sara Lee Unit
   ----
   By Martin du Bois
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP SLE N.DEG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Sir Leon Brittan, the European Community's
commissioner in charge of competition, is embroiled in a
bitter battle with External Relations Commissioner Frans
Andriessen over the role the commission should play in
policing mergers and acquisitions.
   The dispute is centered on the fate of the Dutch coffee
maker Douwe Egberts N.V. But it has broader implications for
competition policy in the EC single market planned for 1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two commissioners disagree about whether Douwe
Egberts's acquisition of a rival coffee maker in February
1989 gave the company an unfair market position and whether
the company should be forced to divest itself of all or part
of the acquisition. Douwe Egberts is a subsidiary of Sara Lee
Corp., a Chicago-based food and consumer-products company.
   Mr. Andriessen argues that Douwe Egberts's market share of
about 67% in the Dutch, Belgian and Luxembourg coffee markets
doesn't endanger competition in the EC and that the
commission shouldn't bother with intervening in such a small
part of the overall EC market.
   On Sir Leon's side, however, officials say that by
acquiring Van Nelle Holdings N.V., Douwe Egberts "created a
position which is virtually unassailable." Douwe Egberts's
near-monopoly makes it almost impossible for another company
based elsewhere in the EC to grab a substantial share of the
Benelux market, they argue.
   Mr. Andriessen, a Dutchman, has received support from
several other commissioners who also come from the EC's
smaller countries. They argue that companies in the smaller
nations should be allowed to build up sufficient size and
local market share to compete on a communitywide basis.
Commission President Jacques Delors, who currently is siding
with Sir Leon, wants the debate resolved before any decision
is taken on Douwe Egberts.
   Some EC officials suggest Mr. Andriessen is taking sides
because of his Dutch nationality, though others dismiss that
suggestion. "He has been taking a very nationalistic stance
on this issue," says one official.
   The dispute comes at an awkward time for Sir Leon, less
than two months before the commission's new merger-control
powers come into force. On Sept. 21, the commission will for
the first time have the power to block large anticompetitive
mergers before they happen.
   "We're all a bit in a state of confusion now," says a
commission spokesman.
   Some lawyers and officials are surprised that Mr.
Andriessen is challenging Sir Leon on the Douwe Egberts
issue. They say that Sir Leon had appeared to have a
clear-cut case.
   "I don't think there should be any controversy here," says
Frank Fine, a lawyer with the British firm of Frere
Cholmeley. "It would be a mistake {for the commission} to
drop a case like this where the market share is so strong."
   In any case, the dispute sets a bad precedent, lawyers and
EC officials say, because the new merger-control system won't
function if the commission can't stay free of the kind of
political infighting that is happening with Douwe Egberts.
Under the new merger-control rules, the commission will have
to make decisions within tight deadlines.
   "It's a rather bad signal at a time when one might expect
that the commissioners would defend a common position in an
area as important" as merger control, says Alain Vanderelst,
a lawyer with the Brussels firm Van Bael &amp; Bellis.
   The commission's investigation of Douwe Egberts for "abuse
of dominant position" was officially launched more than a
year ago, in May 1989. Commission officials have been trying
to negotiate an amicable solution with the company, but talks
have broken down. The current dispute means that a decision
probably won't be reached until after the commission's August
holidays, but Sir Leon is expected to press on with the case.
   "Brittan is doing his job, showing himself as an enforcer
{of EC competition law} that has to be reckoned with," Mr.
Fine says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Peugeot Vehicle Production
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.PEU
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Peugeot S.A. auto group said it produced
1,245,280 vehicles in the first six months of this year, an
increase of 55,000 vehicles, or 4.6%, from the same period of
1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   McMartin Trial
   Ends in Deadlock,
   Case Is Now Dead
   ----
   By Ann Hagedorn
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   A California judge declared a mistrial in the second
McMartin Preschool child-molestation trial when jurors became
deadlocked after deliberating three weeks in the case of
former teacher Raymond Buckey.
   Shortly after Judge Stanley Weisberg's decision, Ira
Reiner, Los Angeles district attorney, said he would not try
Mr. Buckey a third time. Jurors later said they were leaning
toward acquittal on six of the eight counts against him.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The McMartin case is over," said Deputy District Attorney
Joseph Martinez at a news conference.
   It was the end of a controversial case that began in
Manhattan Beach, Calif., in August 1983 and resulted in the
longest and costliest criminal trial in U.S. history. Mr.
Buckey spent nearly five years in prison.
   "No one has won in the McMartin case," Mr. Buckey told
reporters. "Now I would like to be just left alone. . . .
This is not the kind of life I would have planned out."
   Hours before Judge Weisberg stopped the trial, the jury
asked him to allow them to review the only two verdicts they
had so far submitted. The two verdicts had not been made
public. The judge granted their request and only minutes
later jurors announced their impasse.
   In interviews with reporters the jurors said the two
sealed verdicts had initially been unanimous votes for
acquittal. On only one count was there a majority vote for a
guilty verdict.
   Mr. Buckey's ordeal began seven years ago when a woman,
now deceased, told local police she believed her son had been
molested at the Virginia McMartin Preschool.
   In January, after a 28-month trial and three months of
deliberations, another jury acquitted Mr. Buckey, 32, and his
mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, on 52 out of 65 counts of
child molestation.
   The acquittals provoked a wave of protest among parents of
the allegedly molested children and victims rights groups. In
February, Mr. Reiner, at the time a Democratic candidate for
state attorney general, announced he would retry Mr. Buckey
on eight of the deadlocked counts.
   Those charges involved three girls, now teen-agers, who
attended the preschool between 1979 and 1983. Defense
attorney Danny Davis called the move for a retrial "banal
stupidity" and accused the district attorney of using the
case for political purposes.
   According to the Los Angeles County auditor, from August
1983 through May 1990, the case cost California taxpayers
almost $14 million.
   Mr. Buckey has never deviated from his claims of
innocence.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Intervoice Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS INTV
</CO>
<LP>
   INTERVOICE Inc. (Dallas) -- David Brandenburg, former
president of Brandenburg Inc., a Dallas computer company, was
named to the new position of chief operating officer and a
member of the executive committee of this maker of voice
automation systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Here's Some Money to Pay for the S&amp;L Bailout
   ----
   By Reid Nagle
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   William Seidman, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., tells us the Resolution Trust Corp. will run out of
money sometime this fall, leaving another 600 to 1,000 failed
or failing thrifts still to be resolved. If even the lowest
of the General Accounting Office's estimates of the cost of
the thrift bailout is correct, another $60 billion must be
raised to finish the job.
   Where will the money come from? A portion was originally
budgeted to come from higher insurance premiums paid by
thrifts, as well as the seizure of the capital surplus of the
Federal Home Loan Banks. But as the public knows all too
well, the bulk of the funding will take the form of higher
taxes on current and future generations. Little known to the
public or policy makers, however, there does exist an
alternative funding source within the savings and loan system
itself, a $10 billion treasure trove that belongs to no one
and could be used to reduce the taxpayer burden.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To understand the source of this potential taxpayer
windfall requires a brief introduction to the arcane origins
and evolution of the savings and loan industry. Building and
loan societies, as they were originally known, originated in
Britain and were copied in the U.S. in the 19th century.
These institutions were created by communities to foster
savings and home ownership at a time when no other source of
home financing was available. Ownership of these "mutual"
institutions rested in the hands of "members," defined in law
as each institution's depositors and borrowers.
   The development of liquid secondary markets in mortgages
and the entry of new players in the mortgage markets over the
past 20 years effectively rendered mutual savings
institutions a relic of the past. Banks, federal credit
agencies and mortgage brokers now provide the vast majority
of mortgage finance to the nation's homeowners.
   To accommodate this new financial reality, Congress and
the thrift regulatory agencies adopted regulations in the
mid-1970s to allow mutual institutions to convert to stock
form. Rather than simply giving the stock to depositors, as
true ownership would require, the conversion regulations
obliged depositors to pay the same fair market value for
stock as the investing public, effectively stripping
depositors of the bulk of their ownership interest. In return
for forfeiture of their ownership rights, depositors were
given the first right to buy stock, followed in line by
community investors and ultimately the general public.
   The regulators probably made the right decision. Giving
stock in coverted S&amp;Ls to depositors would have proven
unworkable. Today's depositors, including a cottage industry
of professional depositors eager to invest in selective
mutual-to-stock conversions, are not responsible for the
accumulation of equity that took place over generations. The
prospect of a stock giveaway would have brought in an even
larger stream of new depositors salivating at the thought of
participating in the windfall.
   The courts have agreed with this conclusion. The New
Hampshire Supreme Court dismissed the ownership rights of
depositors as "only a technical fiction" in 1973; the U.S.
Supreme Court held in 1985 that the interests of depositors
in mutual S&amp;Ls were analogous to those of secured
bondholders, not owners.
   Today, some 2,000 mutual savings institutions, with
aggregate assets of $450 billion, remain. Roughly half are
economically solvent and have value as going concerns. These
survivors are concentrated in the Midwest and Northeast. The
other half succumbed to the same fiasco as the rest of the
nation's S&amp;L industry and are now candidates for seizure by
the deposit insurance regulators at some unknown cost to
taxpayers.
   And here's where the potential windfall lies: Because the
value residing in solvent mutuals does not belong to their
depositors, it accrues by default to the benefit of the
institutions' managements.
   Mutual managers are free to enjoy their good fortune in
any number of ways. They can keep their institutions in their
current form, which keeps the managers well compensated and
insulated from the scrutiny of stockholders; they can convert
to stock form, selling stock to the public and in return
receiving long-term employment contracts and bountiful stock
options; or they can even give away the value of their
franchise to other shareholder-owned institutions at no cost.
   In perhaps the most extreme example of management
prerogatives, the managers of Manhattan Savings Bank elected
this spring to "donate" their institution and its $270
million of equity to Republic New York Corp. in exchange for
management contracts and benefits valued at less than $15
million.
   BB&amp;T Financial Corp., a highly profitable bank holding
company based in North Carolina, has also discovered this pot
of gold. In the past month it has made deals to acquire two
mutual savings and loan associations at no cost at all to
BB&amp;T.
   By the old doctrine of escheat, states and municipalities
may capture unclaimed and dormant bank deposits. Similarly,
policy makers should consider whether this unclaimed value in
the depository sector might be used to reduce the taxpayer
cost of the bailout of the S&amp;L industry. To do so would
require the government to put healthy mutuals up for sale to
the highest bidder, perhaps setting aside a portion of the
proceeds to compensate managers who might be displaced.
   Based on a conservative sales price equal to 75% of
tangible book value for only the healthiest mutuals, I
estimate the total potential proceeds of these sales to be
approximately $10 billion. Further, the elimination of 2,000
savings institutions would reduce the burden of regulatory
oversight and potentially the exposure of the deposit
insurance funds to future problems.
   The losers in the process would be those who heretofore
have benefited from the absence of assignable ownership
interests in mutual savings institutions. Mutual managers
would surely and understandably protest; up until now, they
effectively controlled the accumulated value within the
mutuals they managed, and frequently passed that value on
from generation to generation. Speculators and investors,
including current depositors and a large cadre of
professional depositors, would lose the opportunity to invest
at fair market value in mutuals converting to stock form.
Acquirors that previously paid nothing -- like Republic New
York Corp. -- would now have to pay fair market value.
   In the end, the absence of true ownership interest in
mutual institutions limits the pain of seizure. The
government defrays a substantial portion of the bailout cost,
the burden on the taxpayers is reduced, depositors remain
fully insured, displaced managers are compensated for their
troubles and acquirors have an opportunity to pay a market
value for attractive franchises.
   ---
   Mr. Nagle is president of SNL securities in
Charlottesville, Va. Kevin Stiroh provided research
assistance for this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   NASA's Still Reaching for the Stars
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   In "NASA's Flyboys Have Grown Old and Fat" (Potomac Watch,
July 13), Paul A. Gigot calls NASA an "arthritic bureaucracy"
that should be reformed, and argues that "space is too
important to leave to NASA." I say that NASA is too important
to our country's enterprise in space to be dismissed with
such glibness and airy distortion of the facts.
   Mr. Gigot slings many arrows, but aims them badly.
Consider the following:
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He says Vice President Dan Quayle and White House Chief of
Staff John Sununu convened a caucus of "space
non-conformists" who allegedly spoke of the need for "new
thinking" at NASA. Who were those nonconformists? Former NASA
officials all: Thomas Paine, a former administrator; Hans
Mark, a former deputy administrator; Bruce Murray, a former
director of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory; Gene Cernan, a
former astronaut. All except Mr. Cernan had considerable
influence on NASA's policy and institutional evolution. Mr.
Paine headed a presidential commission that laid out the
course NASA is taking now on the Space Exploration Initiative
to return to the moon permanently and send humans to explore
Mars. For the first time, with President Bush's blessing,
NASA is planning for events 30 years into the future, when
people will land on Mars. If that's not new thinking, what
is?
   He criticizes NASA's "gold-plated giantism," an echo of
the criticism being leveled at big science projects. In the
early days of the space program, there was so little we knew
and so much to be learned about space that we could send up
small, simple satellites and reap a bounty of knowledge. But
after more than three decades, we've pretty much solved the
easy problems. The difficult ones remain. And they require
more weight, more time and more money.
   Mature science requires expertise. Mr. Gigot discusses
NASA's aging work force, but fails to mention that NASA is
taking steps to infuse younger people into middle management
and above. Is he suggesting it scrap the experience and skill
of many who not only got us to the Moon, but also designed
and guided our spacecraft through the solar system and
beyond?
   The article states that NASA designed the space shuttle to
"have its own space-launch monopoly . . . and won't even
consider space-launch alternatives." Not true. NASA never
conceived of the shuttle as its space-launch monopoly. The
truth is, NASA would have a mixed fleet of shuttles and
expendable rockets today had not President Reagan taken NASA
out of the expendable-launch business to encourage a
commercial space-launch industry. What's more, NASA is now
working to develop an Advanced Launch System to provide a
heavy-lift capability for the Space Exploration Initiative
and other projects.
   Mr. Gigot implies that if the Bush administration doesn't
reform NASA (he fails to state how) or kill it, the nation
will be faced with no future in space. This is balderdash.
Rather than throwing the baby out with the bathwater, we need
to provide nourishment in the form of a stable and
predictable budget so that growth and maturation can
continue.
   Vera Hirschberg
   Senior Public Affairs Officer
   National Aeronautics and Space Administration
   Washington
   ---
   There are too many NASA-bashers jumping in for their share
of self-gratification at the expense of a very competent
agency suffering a few setbacks. NASA has accomplished 10
consecutive near-perfect Space Shuttle missions since
September 1989, including the deployment and retrieval of
complex payloads such as Galileo, the Long Duration Exposure
Facility, numerous national security payloads and other
scientific and technical experiments. The Voyager spacecraft
gave us up-close views of other planets.
   The Hubble Telescope and the shuttle problems are
solvable. NASA has mechanisms in place to fix the problems.
One of its hallmarks is that it rises to any challenge and
overcomes it. And by the way, those "old and fat" engineers
could be making three times their salaries in private
industry; instead, they've dedicated themselves to federal
service. That dedication has continued to push the U.S. to
the forefront of aerospace technology and world leadership in
space.
   If NASA is becoming too bureaucratic, it is because
Congress, the Office of Management and Budget and the media
have scrutinized, criticized and threatened the agency at
every turn. NASA officials have taken the initiative to keep
Congress, the OMB and the public informed about its current
problems. They should be applauded, not chastised for it.
They are willing to admit publicly when there is a problem,
and they dig in to solve it. The people of NASA do not
deserve the cheap shots Mr. Gigot aimed at them.
   Lorraine K. Walton
   Stafford, Va.
   ---
   Mr. Gigot's conclusions about the fundamental problem
underlying the huge cost overruns and bungled projects at
NASA are right on the mark. Socialism, especially on a
national scale, works no better in the U.S. than it does in
Eastern Europe. However, it's not true that "Congress can't
see much beyond {NASA's} budget" to true reform. In June
1989, Rep. Ron Packard of California introduced the Space
Transportation Services Purchase Act, which now has more than
40 House co-sponsors of widely varying ideological
persuasion. A version of this bill recently was attached to
this year's NASA authorization bill. The intent of the bill
is to break up NASA's space-transportation monopoly, creating
a true space-transportation industry that will have the
incentive and freedom to lower costs. Lower launch costs are
essential to the creation of an economically viable space
industry and a real space frontier.
   Bruce Murray is correct in pointing out that NASA's
charter does not include the operation and ownership of a
space-launch monopoly. It is rather to conduct space-science
research and exploration, analogous to the activities of
explorers such as Lewis and Clark and the mission of the U.S.
Geological Survey. Space is as important to the future of
America as the Western frontier was a century ago.
   If Sen. Albert Gore is anything but "putty in NASA's
hands" he should take the first step toward really reforming
NASA by introducing a Senate version of the Packard bill.
   Mark A. Voelker
   President
   Tucson Space Society
   Tucson, Ariz.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ford Taps Officers
   In North American
   Car Lines Revamping
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   F WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   DEARBORN, Mich. -- Ford Motor Co. is shuffling its North
American auto operations to realign a variety of engine
development, vehicle engineering and manufacturing operations
into three units.
   The moves, which take effect Sept. 1, are aimed at
streamlining Ford's North American automotive operations with
the company investing heavily in a campaign to develop new
vehicles, engines and transmissions, company spokesmen said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ford said Max L. Jurosek, 60-year-old vice president, car
product development, will become vice president and general
manager of powertrain operations. Mr. Jurosek will oversee
nearly all Ford's North American engine and transmission
operations, including engine and transmission engineering and
casting operations. Ford is making a major push to develop
new engines and transmissions and bolster one of the weak
spots in the auto maker's product lineup.
   Mr. Jurosek will be succeeded as vice president, car
product development, by Kenneth K. Kohrs, 51, vice president,
car programs management and powertrain planning and
engineering. In his new role, Mr. Kohrs will oversee planning
for products as well as a new vehicle engineering operation.
In effect, he will oversee the process of taking a car from a
concept to a working product design.
   Ford also is creating a vehicle operations unit that will
combine engineers who design car bodies for manufacture and
the people who design and manage the North American factories
that build the vehicles. The general manager of this new unit
will be Henry A. Nickol, 58, general manager of Ford's
powertrain operations.
   Messrs. Jurosek, Kohrs and Nickol will report to Alexander
J. Trotman, executive vice president, North American
automotive operations, Ford said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Asean Members See Long-Term Benefits
   In Greater U.S. Involvement in Region
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN FORGN
</CO>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   JAKARTA, Indonesia -- America's Southeast Asian allies
were publicly critical when the U.S. decided to begin talks
with Vietnam on Cambodia, but privately most favor the
dialogue and hope it will be expanded.
   As they watch the sweeping changes taking place across the
world, the six members of the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations, or Asean, ending their annual meeting here, believe
that their long-term stability will be served best by a
permanent U.S. diplomatic and security presence in the
region. This consensus view emerged in a series of interviews
with Asean delegates, who spoke on the condition that they
not be identified. They see the talks as a test of the Bush
administration's willingness to become actively engaged in
solving Southeast Asia's problems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although Asean members were angered by the shift in U.S.
policy, announced earlier this month, they recognize that a
U.S.-Vietnamese dialogue is a necessary element for ending
the conflict in Cambodia. And if the dialogue were widened,
it also could help resolve the equally nettlesome problem of
the refugees streaming into Asean states from Vietnam and
Cambodia.
   This sentiment was underscored by Indonesia's foreign
minister, Ali Alatas. Mr. Alatas was asked by reporters
whether he favored the expansion of U.S.-Vietnamese talks on
Cambodia into a more comprehensive dialogue. He replied,
"That would be fine. If it is positive, why not?"
   The U.S. opposes the involuntary return of the boat people
who have fled Vietnam; the Asean states want to return the
increasing numbers who left to seek better economic
opportunities and therefore aren't political refugees fleeing
persecution. The Asean ministers, in a joint statement, said
that they "deeply regretted" that both the U.S. and Vietnam
oppose involuntary repatriation without providing
satisfactory alternatives.
   But beyond solving these two immediate problems, which
dominated last week's meeting, most Asean members were
encouraged by the U.S. policy shift because they believe the
U.S. ultimately must normalize its relations with Vietnam if
it is to help reduce regional tensions that have existed
since the end of the Vietnam War.
   Secretary of State James Baker, at Asean's closing news
conference, said normalization of U.S. relations with Vietnam
won't happen soon. But he assured Asean that the U.S. "has
been, and we certainly intend to remain, fully engaged as a
partner in the Pacific working with our friends and allies to
expand our common interests here."
   By working collectively, the 23-year-old Asean
association, made up of the "dominoes" that the U.S. once
feared would fall to communist aggression, has succeeded in
getting the world's attention on such problems as Cambodia
and the Vietnamese boat people. Now, however, Asean is
concerned that it is being overshadowed by the transformation
under way in Eastern Europe that has preoccupied Washington
and the West. The Asean nations -- Thailand, Indonesia,
Malaysia, Singapore, Brunei and the Philippines -- want the
West's continuing attention both for economic and security
reasons.
   In remarks welcoming the U.S. and other industrialized
nations to a meeting that customarily follows the Asean
members' session, Mr. Alatas, the Indonesian foreign
minister, voiced the association's "genuine and justified
apprehension that financial, investment and trade flows of
considerable magnitude from the developed West might now be
rechanneled to Eastern Europe."
   And although the superpower confrontation is diminishing,
Asean nations still have deep concerns about regional
rivalries. According to a delegate from one of the
industrialized nations attending the session, in an unusual
outburst during a closed meeting on security issues,
Malaysia's foreign minister expressed fear that Japan would
replace the Soviet Union as a major threat to the region. A
senior Asean official separately said that the group's
members are worried that a preoccupied America might make
Japan its "proxy" in the area.
   In meetings here, according to an Indonesian Asean
delegate, Mr. Baker gave Asean members the impression that if
Hanoi cooperates, the U.S.-Vietnam dialogue would be
"irreversible." A senior State Department official added that
the Asean representatives recognized that "the overture to
Vietnam, if the Vietnamese respond positively, creates some
interesting possibilities for dealing with the larger
problems in Indochina."
   But Asean members still aren't sure about a long-term U.S.
commitment. One delegate expressed concern that U.S. policy
is "fickle," often reflecting short-term U.S. domestic
considerations. They say the decision to begin talking to
Hanoi and to drop support at the United Nations for an
Asean-backed coalition that includes the Khmer Rouge, which
slaughtered one million people when it ruled Cambodia, was
driven largely by mounting congressional opposition.
   Secretary Baker appeared to assuage much of the anger here
about the Cambodia decision by emphasizing that the U.S. and
Asean share the same goals. But he was less successful in
winning support for the U.S. refugee policy.
   Mr. Baker noted during the meeting here that the U.S.
underwrites a substantial part of the cost of maintaining the
refugees and is pledged to allow half the refugees into the
U.S. He warned that "critical finger-pointing" would only
jeopardize these cooperative arrangements.
   Mr. Baker also announced that the U.S. would accept a
U.N.-proposed, somewhat vague, new category of returnees. But
a State Department aide conceded that, despite lengthy
discussions during several days of meetings here, the problem
"remains a very difficult issue."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   France Plans Complex Moves to Boost
   Capital of Public-Sector Banks, Insurers
   ----
   By Charles Fleming
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F.BNP F.AGF F.UAP F.TCF RP.C F.PEH
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
INSURANCE (INS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France's Socialist government, its hands tied by
President Francois Mitterrand's 1988 election promise not to
privatize any state-owned companies, is planning complex
financial maneuvers to boost the capital of its public-sector
banks and insurers.
   The moves would help gird state-owned groups like Banque
Nationale de Paris and Assurances Generales de France for the
tough competition ahead when Europe drops all internal
barriers to create a single market by the end of 1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But analysts, rival bankers and insurers are wary of the
plans, which they say involve a lot of shuffling of paper and
little in the way of fresh money for the companies.
   Two separate plans are currently under review, government
and industry sources said, although nothing is likely to be
formally announced before the end of the summer holidays.
   The first plan would allow BNP, one of France's Big Three
retail banks, to improve its capital adequacy ratios by
giving it control, but not ownership, of a 20% stake in Union
des Assurances de Paris, France's biggest insurer and also a
state-owned company.
   To achieve this, the state would pool 10% of UAP's shares
in a new holding company alongside BNP's existing 10% in UAP.
BNP would probably take a 51% stake in the new company,
allowing it to consolidate the holdings' earnings and assets
within BNP group accounts.
   This would help increase the bank's capital to the levels
required under the internationally agreed Cooke Committee
capital adequacy ratio, without actually giving BNP any new
funds. The Cooke Committee ruling calls for banks' capital to
equal at least 8% of assets by 1993.
   Under the plan, UAP also would take control of a 20% stake
in BNP. The two groups agreed to an initial 10% share swap
last year.
   French Finance Minister Pierre Beregovoy on Thursday
applauded plans for a BNP/UAP share swap. "It's a good idea,"
he told his weekly press conference.
   But criticism was not slow in coming from other quarters.
   Jean-Yves Haberer, chairman of BNP's main rival Credit
Lyonnais, itself a state-owned bank, described the proposed
plan as artificial. "It would be something of a caricature if
10 {percent in UAP} could be counted as 20 by an accounting
trick of mirrors," he said earlier last week.
   Foreign investors also questioned the moves. Keith Baird,
European banking analyst with Kleinwort Benson Securities in
London, said, "It's certainly clever and the rules do allow
it, but this will definitely be seen by international
investors as a maneuver designed to shore up BNP's capital
adequacy without injecting new capital."
   A separate plan is designed to open the way for insurer
AGF to raise new capital from private investors without
diluting the state's current 75% stake.
   Under a law passed this year, the state cannot drop its
stake in any of the public sector insurers below this level.
   But AGF will need new capital to finance foreign
acquisitions if it is to meet the ambitious growth targets
set last year by AGF Chairman Michel Albert.
   The government plans to transfer to AGF minority holdings
in several state-owned industrial companies -- oil group
Total, chemicals group Rhone-Poulenc and metals group
Pechiney -- in exchange for new AGF shares.
   This will raise the state's holding in AGF to around 80%
from 75%, giving AGF room to go to market, issuing new shares
to private investors.
   An AGF official said last week that the group had to raise
new cash to fund its development plans. "AGF wants to double
its {revenue} by the end of 1993 and raise its foreign
business to about 40% of the total from 27% today. That means
growing internally and by acquisition."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Isomedix Expects
   To Post 30% Rise
   In Quarterly Net
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ISMX
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   WHIPPANY, N.J. -- Isomedix Inc. expects to report
second-quarter net income about in line with analyst
estimates, indicating a 30% earnings rise on 28% higher
revenue.
   John Masefield, chairman, president and chief executive
officer, said the sterilization-services company's net was
close to estimates of $1.2 million, or 18 cents a share,
compared with $919,303, or 18 cents a share, in the
year-earlier period. Isomedix completed a public offering of
1.3 million shares at $8.75 each last September. Revenue was
around $6.6 million, compared with $5.1 million, the
executive said in an interview.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the six months, earnings were near estimates of $2.2
million, or 32 cents a share, up 33% from $1.6 million, or 31
cents a share. Revenue grew about 24% to $12.4 million from
$10 million, Isomedix indicated.
   "Earnings are about as predicted. Gamma (radiation
services) in medical devices are a little softer than we'd
hoped for," Mr. Masefield said. The company sterilizes a
variety of products using gamma rays and is building its
ability to sterilize using ethylene oxide gas.
   He said medical-supply companies have been importing
already-sterilized gloves and saline solutions, hurting
Isomedix's revenue. As a result, "I'm not so sanguine about
the second half that we'll be right on target" with earnings
estimates, Mr. Masefield said. Analysts put Isomedix's
earnings for 1990 around 74 cents a share, compared with 62
cents a share in 1989.
   To counter the softness, the company is spreading its
service base, increasingly emphasizing consumer products and
food packaging, Mr. Masefield said. Consumerproduct
sterilization now accounts for 15% to 20% of revenue,
compared with 10% a year ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Council Says Social Security Surplus
   Shouldn't Be Included in Budget Target
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon and David Wessel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- To highlight the true size of the budget
deficit, the government shouldn't count the growing Social
Security surplus in deficit-reduction targets, a federal
advisory panel said.
   The panel, the Advisory Council on Social Security, also
warned against reducing Social Security taxes as the surplus
builds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Social Security surplus is expected to be about $63
billion in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30. Excluding this
surplus from budget calculations would increase this year's
deficit to about $224 billion from the current estimate of
$161.3 billion and intensify the difficulty of balancing the
budget.
   "The council believes that the growing Social Security
reserves shouldn't routinely be used simply to offset large
operating deficits in the rest of the federal budget," the
panel said in an interim report. The secretary of Health and
Human Services appoints such a council every four years to
review the soundness of the Social Security and Medicare
trust funds.
   The panel said it's appropriate for the Social Security
trust fund to be building a surplus in anticipation of the
retirement of the large baby-boom generation starting around
2010. It cautioned against reducing the current payroll tax
rate of 6.2%, which is paid both by workers and employers on
income of up to $51,300 this year, as suggested by Sen.
Daniel Patrick Moynihan (D., N.Y.).
   The council said the long-term health of the Social
Security system depends on boosting the nation's
productivity, or output per hour worked. The nation should
strive to eliminate the budget deficit -- and ultimately to
run a budget surplus -- to boost savings and investment, the
foundation of higher productivity, the advisory council
recommended.
   This long-term goal is widely shared, although successive
Congresses and presidents haven't yet shown the political
will to achieve it. However, the current budget summit is
likely to take the Social Security surplus out of the deficit
calculations.
   Negotiators at the budget summit talks, meanwhile,
continued to be more preoccupied with partisan maneuvering
and tactics than with reaching a deficit-reduction
compromise. Republicans -- stung by publicity and criticism
surrounding a draft deficit-reduction plan they haven't
offered to Democrats yet -- are now threatening to block the
start of the congressional recess unless Democrats put
forward a proposal next week, congressional aides said.
   Democrats haven't decided how to respond yet. But
negotiators said any plan they put forward at this stage is
likely to rely more on deep cuts in defense spending than on
cuts in benefit programs and also will call for increasing
taxes on upper-income taxpayers. One possibility being
considered by Democrats is to impose a new tax on luxury
items.
   As previously reported, the draft Republican plan would
raise taxes on beer, wine and liquor and limit the deduction
for state and local income taxes to $10,000; it also would
cut defense spending about $7 billion and reduce spending on
government benefits programs $16 billion. Republican aides
cautioned that the plan may change before it is formally
offered.
   President Bush is expected to meet again today with top
congressional leaders. The timetable for the budget talks is
likely be the main item on the agenda. Democrats last week
proposed to call the summit negotiators back early from the
August recess to try to complete a package, but the White
House rejected that. One possibility that both Republicans
and Democrats are discussing is for the entire Congress to
vote on firm deadlines for the budget negotiators before
leaving town -- perhaps in the resolution that begins the
recess.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Power Play:
   Under Allen Neuharth,
   Gannett Foundation
   Seeks Greater Clout
   ---
   It Wants to Dump Its Stock
   In Gannett Co. to Increase
   Income and Size of Grants
   ---
   Controversy Suits an `S.O.B.'
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   GCI
</CO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ARLINGTON, Va. -- Allen H. Neuharth, self-proclaimed
"S.O.B.," founder of USA Today and builder of Gannett Co., is
out to establish a new power base as chairman of the Gannett
Foundation. In the process, he is shaking up both the media
giant and the philanthropic foundation.
   In April, Mr. Neuharth stunned his former colleagues by
putting the foundation's 10% interest in Gannett up for sale.
The move by the foundation, long Gannett's largest
shareholder, startled Wall Street and the newspaper industry
by appearing to leave the company wide open to a potential
raider. It also seemed to portend a growing rift between the
flamboyant, outspoken Mr. Neuharth and his frugal and
restrained successor as Gannett Co.'s chief executive
officer, John Curley.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although Mr. Neuharth likes to twit his successors and
stir up controversy, he may have brewed more than he
bargained for this time. In his determination to extend the
power and reach of the foundation -- whose sole asset is the
15.9 million Gannett shares, valued at about $562 million,
that he wants to sell -- Mr. Neuharth has come under attack.
   Detractors say he has squandered charitable money on fancy
new offices, paintings, automobiles and unnecessary staff. A
trustee, Carrie Rozelle, has resigned, asserting that she was
"terribly uninformed" about the costs of its new offices.
Gannett executive trustees, among them CEO Curley, also have
resigned, in order to avoid conflicts of interest in the
foundation's sale of Gannett stock.
   Meanwhile, negotiations to sell the stock have temporarily
frozen or slowed the authorization of funds from the
55-year-old institution to programs in communities where
Gannett properties do business.
   There are also indications the foundation may be drifting
away from the causes that relate most directly to the
company's business, a course that others, including the Ford,
W.K. Kellogg and Hearst Foundations, have followed. But as
the Gannett Foundation moves from a company-dominated
institution to an independent one, critics wonder whether Mr.
Neuharth is focusing too much on his own social and political
ambitions and on the fortunes of a small group of cronies who
followed him from Gannett Co. to the foundation.
   Mr. Neuharth dismisses such talk and says his fiduciary
duty to the foundation required his decision to sell the
Gannett stock. While the Internal Revenue Service requires
foundations to pay out money equal to at least 5% of their
assets each year, the foundation's income from Gannett stock
dividends last year amounted to only about 3% of its asset
value -- foretelling an invasion of capital. "Unless we
convert our assets into higher-yield investments, the
foundation corpus will become a corpse," Mr. Neuharth says.
   Whether the foundation's sale will actually put Gannett
Co. into play is a subject of debate. Large blocks of Gannett
stock recently traded the week after it was reported that
Gannett Co. expected to show its first quarterly drop in
earnings in its 22-year history as a publicly held company.
Securities analyst Mary Ann Winter of Brown Brothers Harriman
&amp; Co. says the company is "the most vulnerable" that it has
ever been to takeover or merger. "They've never been in this
position before."
   Other analysts aren't so sure. Under John Curley, they
say, Gannett has become even better run and more
cost-conscious than it was before, under Mr. Neuharth. And in
May, the company adopted takeover defenses that effectively
give shareholders the right to buy a passel of new shares at
half-price if a takeover try occurs. That would work to keep
control out of a raider's grasp.
   Mr. Neuharth says the foundation would like to put the
block of stock in the hands of the company. "I feel a strong,
sentimental tie to the company," he says. "But now is the
time to maximize the value of our assets, so we will talk to
all interested parties."
   Mr. Neuharth says that when he retired he told Mr. Curley,
"I'm leaving you a helluva great company, if you can keep
it." At a May meeting with Gannett Co. executives, Mr.
Neuharth told Mr. Curley, "We at the foundation want you to
keep the company. We think we are offering you the best
insurance policy you could buy for keeping the company
intact. This stock is an even better insurance policy than
any poison pill."
   Says Mr. Curley: "We are continuing to talk to the
foundation, but they are talking to anybody. We are a
potential buyer {of the stock} at any point. We don't know
how long negotiations could go on." Mr. Curley says the
foundation has 2 1/2 years to meet IRS requirements. "It's in
their court and their call," he says of the foundation.
   This isn't the best time to sell newspaper shares. Prices
have slumped. Gannett shares traded as high as $55.25 in 1987
and were at $35.50 when the foundation announced the planned
sale on April 25. The stock closed Friday at $35.25 in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Analysts
expect earnings to remain weak in a tough climate for retail
and classified advertising.
   Mr. Neuharth and Charles Overby, a former Gannett editor
and public-relations official whom Mr. Neuharth has installed
as chief executive of the foundation, have big plans. They
say they want to use proceeds from the sale of the stock to
build a big-league, billion-dollar foundation that makes
"high impact" grants. "We want to increase our income so we
do more good, not less," Mr. Neuharth says.
   Created in 1935 by company founder Frank Gannett, the
foundation has championed such causes as a free press,
journalism education and adult literacy -- but without the
global prestige of the Ford or Rockefeller foundations. Its
good works have won it the scorn of conservative watchdog
groups such as Media Research Center, which lambasted it for
donating "heavily to minority activists who lobbied for
liberal policies" in the 1980s.
   In 1986, shortly after Gannett Co. moved its headquarters
from Rochester, N.Y., to the banks of the Potomac, Mr.
Neuharth -- then chairman of both the foundation and the
company -- began pushing to move the foundation as well. By
1989, it was ensconced in a new building nestled in a group
of skyscrapers right across the street from the USA Today
building and Gannett Co. headquarters.
   The nation's capital across the river offers a spectacular
view. Inside the new foundation's office, the view is just as
impressive. The offices' soothing colors -- taupe walls and
fabrics and blond wood -- convey a hint of Miami Beach. The
three floors display art deco figurines by Erte, a beaded
Asian tapestry, "faux" leopard-skin chairs and hammered brass
sinks in marble bathrooms. There is an in-house kitchen for
catered dinners. Mounted in the wall above Mr. Neuharth's
desk are five Sony Trinitrons continuously airing Cable News
and other networks.
   Mr. Neuharth commissioned Barbara Whitney, whom he has
called his "frequent companion," to direct the purchases of
about $1 million worth of art for the foundation. Ms.
Whitney, a Cocoa Beach, Fla., designer and decorator, had
redone the corporate offices a few years ago. The
foundation's outlays for headquarters offices, art, cars and
leased space for the Gannett Center for Media Studies at
Columbia University reached $19.3 million in 1989, up from
only $5.9 million in 1988.
   Mrs. Rozelle, wife of Pete Rozelle, former commissioner of
the National Football League, couldn't stomach the spending.
When she resigned as a trustee in January, she wrote a letter
to Mr. Neuharth protesting that "charitable funds are in your
hands in trust from the public, and they should go directly
to the clients you're trying to serve. Those clients are
generally people in need."
   The approximately $15 million spent on interior design,
decorating and furnishing of the Washington offices,
according to a former Gannett executive, could have been cut
in half if it weren't for Mr. Neuharth's expensive tastes.
But foundation executives defend his style. "These
headquarters in location and design are meant to attract the
best, most creative minds in the country," Mr. Overby says.
He adds, "The visibility of Al is one of our great assets,"
although he acknowledges that Mr. Neuharth "has his share of
critics."
   With all the perquisites and comforts Mr. Neuharth enjoys
at the foundation, they are less than he was accustomed to as
a media mogul. Gone is his $360,000-a-year suite at the
Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York, and the limousines he had
available in cities around the land.
   Now, he meets visitors in New York in a modest suite in
the Park Lane Hotel on Central Park South, reserved only for
the nights he is there. He still has limousines, but only in
New York and Washington, and he shares them with other
trustees and guests. When he hits the road this fall to
promote the paperback edition of his "Confessions of an
S.O.B.," his publisher, not the foundation, will pay the
bill.
   The trustees voted Mr. Neuharth a pay increase in 1989 to
$71,467 a year from $48,696. Mr. Overby says Mr. Neuharth is
spending more time on the foundation, although its IRS
information return still lists him as "part-time."
   Mr. Neuharth, at 63, seems comfortable with the
controversy. "I don't like to make trouble, but I'm not the
kind of guy who will stand in line and say please," he says.
Pacing his Park Lane suite in New York, he defends the fancy
digs in Washington. "Are foundation offices supposed to be a
drab place?" he asks, responding in his trademarked sentence
fragments: "No apologies. Proud of it."
   So are some others. Mr. Neuharth doesn't do things
half-way, says Carl T. Rowan, the syndicated political
columnist and former foundation trustee who recently joined
the Gannett Co. board. "The foundation has made grants with
wisdom and passion, which pale, in comparison, to a little
argument over whether the sign on the building is too large
or the chairs are too plush."
   The foundation, a legal entity separate from Gannett Co.,
has worked with the company to direct a steady stream of
money to places where Gannett does business. In 1989 the
foundation spent about half its $30 million in grants for
projects in Gannett Co. communities. But the decision to sell
Gannett stock has put some community grants in limbo. In late
June, the foundation's Mr. Overby told Gannett executives the
foundation was delaying authorization of 1990 grants for its
"Community Priorities Program," grants that have been payable
in Gannett stock.
   These and other community grants create good will for
local Gannett executives and the businesses they run. Grants
last year helped AIDS services and attacks on homelessness,
child abuse and teen-age substance abuse. Gannett's
publishers hope such grants won't be forgotten.
   Mary Parks Stier, president and publisher of Gannett Co.'s
Press-Citizen in Iowa City, Iowa, says the grants "help
people understand the newspaper wants to fix problems in the
community, not just write editorials." In Shreveport, La.,
Leslie Hurst, marketing director at Gannett Co.'s Shreveport
Times, says, "It would hurt badly to lose any foundation
money."
   Says Mr. Neuharth: "Publishers have asked, `Are you
abandoning us?' I tell them no, but add if we don't make this
move {selling the stock} now, we won't be doing anything in
those communities in the future." Mr. Overby says that when
the stock sale is completed, the foundation will make fewer
but larger grants. "A little doesn't go a long way anymore,"
he says. The "$2,500 grants won't be part of the future,
especially if they are designed just to give someone a warm
glow."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Appraising What the RTC Should Do
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   So you think you've got problems? Compare yourself with
the unfortunate folks at the Resolution Trust Corp., and
you're bound to feel better. Their task, which might have
made even Mr. Phelps of "Mission Impossible" flinch, is to
dispose of the $15 billion (rising eventually to about $100
billion) of properties that have fallen into the government's
hands from failed savings and loans.
   The RTC finds itself walking a tightrope. It would like to
move quickly to shrink the huge number of unsold properties
hanging over the real-estate market and feeding an atmosphere
of uncertainty -- especially in areas such as Texas where its
holdings are concentrated. At the same time, however, the
agency is trying to avoid selling so fast and cheap as to
trigger a real-estate recession.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Wall Street Journal sought the advice of real-estate
specialists, marketers and other interested parties around
the country on how the RTC should approach its dilemma. Their
suggestions follow.
                                                                                                       

   MOVE THE GOODS FAST
                                                                                                       

   "The only answer" is for the government to sell the real
estate as quickly as possible, says Minneapolis investor
Irwin Jacobs. "The problem is there, and we've got to get rid
of it. It won't get better with age."
   Mr. Jacobs suggests a sealed auction, with uniform bidding
rules throughout the country. "They have got quality pieces
of property out there, and they have got to create a basic
format for selling." At present, he says, prospective buyers
face a plethora of confusing rules and requirements.
   The government's concern that some buyers will profit too
heavily is "just foolishness," he says. Even if a buyer isn't
willing to pay what the government wants, it is still wiser
to get the real estate "in stronger hands" than to let it sit
idle. Then, he says, the government can at least begin to
collect taxes on the property, and real-estate prices in
depressed areas "will begin to level off."
                                                                                                       

   PROCEED WITH CAUTION
                                                                                                       

   The government would save billions of dollars by
consolidating all the properties and hiring professional
managers to operate them and sell them off over time, says
Gerald Barton, president, chairman and chief executive of
Landmark Land Co., a Carmel, Calif., savings and loan holding
company that has managed 21 failed thrifts for the government
over the past several years.
   "What they {should} do is put it all together, cut it up
into manageable pieces, and hire the best person to manage
and sell them in an orderly fashion. I would take all the
{government-owned} apartments in Houston and hire the best
apartment manager in Houston to manage and sell them. You're
looking at an enormous increase in loss in liquidating over
managing the thing out.
   "You can't treat government real estate any differently
from how you treat personal real estate. What does a well-run
bank do when it forecloses? Does it immediately put it up for
sale? No, they hold on. You want to shine the apple before
you sell it."
                                                                                                       

   `CREATE A MYSTIQUE'
                                                                                                       

   "The RTC has two basic problems -- they want to sell as
quickly as they can, and they haven't created an image of
desirability," says David Liederman, founder of David's
Cookies. "The feds are going 180 degrees in the wrong
direction. This reeks of a fire sale."
   Mr. Liederman cites an apartment building in Manhattan
where he says units are going for about one-fifth of their
original asking price. "If I controlled the sale, I'd
definitely hold the properties and have an orderly sale," he
says. He would price units at perhaps 80% of their original
price "and tell people what a bargain they were getting in
such a fine building.
   "I'd try to create an aura of once-in-a-lifetime bargains.
I'd create a mystique of desirability for these properties."
                                                                                                       

   PUBLICIZE APPRAISALS
                                                                                                       

   "They've got a real dilemma," says George Mitchell,
chairman and president of Mitchell Energy &amp; Development
Corp., which handles oil, gas and real estate. "If they push
too hard, they could jeopardize the recovery in some parts of
the country.
   "They ought to screen through the private investors first,
then package what's left and {quickly sell} it. I would
publicize various sites and what they think they have as
appraisals. A lot of people would step up to pay 80% or 90%
of appraised value if they knew exactly what they were. . . .
They should let people pick {the properties} over, get some
really good deals, then increase the velocity gradually." At
Mitchell Energy, "we've already bought property" from the
RTC.

   DEVELOP COMPUTER PROFILES
                                                                                                       

   "The government has to identify all of the property it
owns and develop profiles to be placed in a computer data
base," says entrepreneur H. Ross Perot. "A real-estate agent
or investor sitting down at a computer terminal would be
limited only by his own creativity. The government should
also go into these markets with brochures and booklets and
say, `OK, fellows, here's what we have, here's the price and
here it is on a map.'
   "Congress should change the tax laws just for these
properties so buyers can go back to the old depreciation
schedules and the old rules for deducting losses. There
should be a clear understanding that the rules change as soon
as we clear out the backlog. This way, we create an incentive
to act now. Finally, the government should create an
environment that allows banks to lend money for the
acquisition of real estate. These must be prudent loans
requiring the buyer to put in significant capital."
                                                                                                       

   TARGET FOREIGN BUYERS
                                                                                                       

   "I think we need to show some real creative marketing,"
says Michael L. McNair, the top salesman for nine of the past
10 years at Hi-Fi Buys, his Atlanta home-electronics chain.
"We can advertise in foreign newspapers and get some foreign
investors in here. Tell them: `You can take advantage of this
and invest in the U.S.A.' We could possibly turn this to our
advantage, and take some of those dollars that are flowing
out of the U.S. and bring them back."
                                                                                                       

   GIVE TAXPAYERS A BREAK
                                                                                                       

   "This is a case in which there is a clear implication that
the taxpayers' money has been wasted in scandalous fashion,"
says Carl Spielvogel, chairman and chief executive officer of
advertising agency Backer Spielvogel Bates Worldwide Inc. "My
approach would be that this property should be put up for
public auction to be available to those people -- taxpayers
in this country -- who suffered because of the unbusinesslike
practices of the people who got this country into this mess.
   "I would advertise these properties in a way that the
information becomes readily available to people. I would
suggest using a media like C-Span for that purpose and say
that at 8 at night in a given region we will show you
property that is going to be available in this dispersal
program."
                                                                                                       

   CALL ON INSTITUTIONAL BUYERS
                                                                                                       

   "They aren't marketing the properties to substantial
buyers," Eli Broad, chairman and chief executive of Broad
Inc., a Los Angeles-based financial services firm with assets
of $10 billion, and founder and chairman of Kaufman &amp; Broad
Home Corp. "They treat everyone the same. They came out with
these huge lists and big books they're very proud of. If I
were running it, I would go out and call on the senior
management of institutions that have the ability to write
checks. They aren't doing that.
   "The people who have the real resources to buy the
properties, like we do and others, don't want the hassle of
dealing with the bureaucracy and the red tape. I would make
sure I had people that were dealing with the largest, most
substantial buyers on a service-oriented, quick-answer
basis."
                                                                                                       

   TAKE TIME TO DO GOOD DEALS
                                                                                                       

   "One thing I would not do is panic and sell it all in an
auction overnight," says Douglas Danforth, chairman of the
Pittsburgh Pirates and retired chairman of Westinghouse
Electric Corp. Doing so, he says, would mean not getting the
best value for the property. An auction "is an instant sale
and not the best sale. If you take the time to work out
selling the property, often you get good value for it."
                                                                                                       

   `BUY OF A LIFETIME'
                                                                                                       

   "If I were in charge of all that real estate," says
comedian Phyllis Diller, "I would check into a sanitarium."
   Assuming she had to take the job, Ms. Diller says, "I
would advertise in all the major Japanese newspapers. That
way they could siphon off some of the money into
out-of-the-way places instead of buying any more landmarks."
   Her ads would say, "Buy of a lifetime] Take advantage of
America's goof] This is a great advantage for you] We goofed
and we're caught]" Of course, she adds, "they might see
through that."
   Johnny Carson, longtime host of "The Tonight Show," says,
"I would put them up for sale on the Home Shopping Network.
That audience will buy anything."
                                                                                                       

   `STOP TIPTOEING AROUND'
                                                                                                       

   "I think I'd probably sell {the properties} two-for-one,
sell them fast, get the money, and go on down the road," says
Jim McIngvale, owner of Gallery Furniture in Houston. "When
you've got a loser, the best thing you can do is to get rid
of it as fast as possible. Otherwise, all it does is continue
the mess. I'd just have a giant auction and sell them off.
   "We should put an end to all this regulation and these
thousands of people. The whole thing is a mess; they ought to
admit it and stop tiptoeing around."
   There's nothing wrong with selling for low prices, Mr.
McIngvale says. "They're losing money every month keeping
those things. If I've got a bad piece of furniture, I sell it
at a fire-sale price and get something I can make some money
on. How can they say {a property is} worth something when all
it's ever done is hemorrhage money? A piece of property may
be worth $1 million in the year 2000, but it's worth $100
now, so lose it."
                                                                                                       

   ENSURE MARKET PRICES

   "We would get the property into the hands of
private-sector real-estate professionals who have the
experience necessary to assemble packages of properties . . .
by product type, by geographical market, and in $10 million
to $50 million blocks {to} be sold at public auction," says
Gerald D. Hines, chairman of Hines Holdings Inc., a big
developer based in Houston. "Only by selling at auction will
the public be assured that actual market price was obtained.
The bidding process circumvents the fiction of appraised
value.
   "Once it becomes public that the government will be
putting the property in the hands of private-sector
professionals, Wall Street will package blocks for smaller
investors, and larger investors will bid against Wall
Street."
   Mr. Hines adds that it ought to be done quickly. "The
effect of having this much inventory is already being felt."
                                                                                                       

   LEND THE POOR A HAND
                                                                                                       

   "They ought to be making a lot of that housing available
for low-income people," says James Rouse, chairman of
Enterprise Development Co. and the Enterprise Foundation,
which raises funds and provides consulting for affordable
housing. Under the act that established the RTC, he says, "a
preference was to be given to nonprofit corporations working
with low-income people. They were authorized to finance the
sale of that property by taking back mortgages and to give a
discount on their appraisals in order to facilitate housing
for low-income people.
   "It was evident to Congress and the country to use this
disastrous situation to help house low-income people, not by
slashing prices, but in an orderly way. There are a lot of
nonprofits ready to buy the properties and, if necessary,
establish an organization to do the marketing. But I don't
think that will be necessary."
   Overall, he says, the RTC must sell the properties "in a
responsible and orderly fashion that respects the fact that
they have within their hands the possibility of causing
tremendous damage to the financial strength of banks,
insurance companies and other financial institutions."
                                                                                                       

   SHRINK THE RTC'S ROLE
                                                                                                       

   "It's just like used cars," says Tony Meredith, a salesman
at Gene Evans Ford Inc. and one of the top three Ford
salespeople in Atlanta. "You shouldn't try to sell {all the
real estate} at once -- you just flood the market. It might
take you longer to recoup your money, but at least the
property is there to help you {recoup}. Anything will sell if
you give it time.
   "I'd give all the property to real-estate companies and
let them try to sell it. That would probably bring in more
money. Anytime the government gets involved, you end up
losing money."
                                                                                                       

   LEAVE IT TO THE PROS
                                                                                                       

   "The government should catalog the properties, do whatever
cosmetic upgrading is necessary to prepare them for market
and supervise the sale, but should leave the actual marketing
and sale in the hands of professional real-estate people,"
says Sheldon Good, chairman of Sheldon Good &amp; Co., one of the
nation's largest real-estate auction firms. If the government
insists on administering the sales itself, as it is doing
now, "it will take 35 years to get all these properties
sold," he says.
   Mr. Good scoffs at the provision allowing community groups
working with low-income people first crack at acquiring some
properties. "These properties could sit there for five years
while they decide who gets them. In the meantime, who will be
paying taxes on them? That's the kind of thing you get when
the government gets into the real-estate business."
   The government seems to be worried that investors might
get too good of a buy. "Congress seems to have the attitude
that if you buy one of these properties for a certain price
and sell it for a $50,000 profit two years later, there's
something wrong with that. But nobody is going to buy real
estate unless they think it's a good buy."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   House Panel
   Blasts Northrop
   On Missile Parts
   ---
   Documents Indicate Boeing
   Was Alerted Long Ago
   To Possible Deficiencies
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor and Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   NOC BA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Members of a Congressional subcommittee and
Justice Department officials raised new doubts about the
reliability of navigational units Northrop Corp. supplied for
the Air Force's fleet of nuclear cruise missiles.
   Meanwhile, documents obtained by The Wall Street Journal
indicate that the missile's prime contractor, Boeing Co., was
alerted long ago about deficiencies the parts might have at
extremely low temperatures, raising questions about that
company's role in the controversy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Members of the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee
strongly disputed claims by the Air Force and the two
contractors that the navigational units don't pose any safety
hazards in real-world conditions.
   The navigational units are supposed to operate at
temperatures as low as 65 degrees below zero Fahrenheit, a
standard applied throughout the military for more than three
decades. But since the early 1980s, laboratory tests
consistently have shown that a silicone fluid called DC-200
inside the Northrop units freezes long before the 65-below
benchmark is reached.
   During an emotion-charged hearing -- punctuated by
personal attacks against Pentagon acquisition chief John
Betti -- lawmakers also ripped into the Defense Department,
accusing it of looking the other way and of moving to resume
business as usual with the Northrop division that made the
suspect components. As a result of the dispute, the division
has been suspended from receiving new federal contracts for
the past year.
   "It's 65 degrees below sometimes in Minnesota on the
ground in winter," fumed Rep. Gerry Sikorski, adding that the
nuclear missiles are supposed to be carried by B-52 bombers
flying at 50,000 feet or higher. "We're talking about
extreme, sensitive nuclear crisis situations . . . where this
thing needs to work," said the Minnesota Democrat.
   Chairman John Dingell (D., Mich.) said that Northrop's
falsification of laboratory tests -- a charge to which the
big contractor pleaded guilty earlier this year -- "is so
serious that . . . neither Justice Department nor Air Force
internal documents offer any hope that the missile will work
in combat." The performance of the cruise missile in sub-zero
temperatures was the focus of a front-page story in The Wall
Street Journal on Friday.
   Northrop Chairman Thomas V. Jones and President Kent Kresa
declined to testify, prompting angry outbursts from lawmakers
who pointed to $35 billion in defense contracts the company
has received since the early 1980s. Such lack of cooperation
"is an incredible outrage," shouted Rep. Jim Slattery (D.,
Kan.).
   Northrop has maintained that it always has acted
responsibly in dealing with the cruise-missile parts, and a
spokesman said over the weekend that "we went in and did what
we could do" to straighten out any improprieties at the
factory where the navigational units were manufactured.
   But Mark Richard, a senior Justice Department prosecutor,
told the committee that "failure of the units is of critical
proportions." Moreover, in a March 13 letter to Pentagon
officials who are leaning toward lifting the suspension
against the Northrop division, federal prosecutor William
Fahey asserted: "Unless the Air Force is able to properly
test these {components} under the `worst case' scenario, it
can never have the degree of confidence necessary in the
weapon's operational capability."
   Mr. Fahey, an assistant U.S. attorney in Los Angeles, is
pressing the Air Force to require Northrop to retest each
navigational unit in the lab at 65 below zero for at least
two hours, and to "pay for a program to correct" any defects
that are found.
   Northrop, company documents show, knew by 1983 that its
navigational unit did not meet the temperature requirement.
   But the latest Northrop document suggests that fully seven
years earlier, when the cruise missile was still under
engineering development, Boeing itself became aware of
low-temperature restrictions on the navigational units. In a
sworn statement that was made in February but wasn't made
public, former Northrop executive Harold Johnson asserted
that Boeing knew as early as 1976 that the units were
sensitive to sub-zero temperatures and would require a brief
"warm-up period following non-operational storage" at 65
below zero.
   Mr. Johnson, who says in the statement that he negotiated
the original deal with Boeing to supply the parts, went on to
note: "I further informed Boeing that the reason . . . was
that the fluid used in the {unit} becomes slushy after
exposure to cold temperatures."
   As part of its plea agreement in February, Northrop
forfeited $17 million in penalties, one of the largest fines
ever imposed upon a defense contractor. But the government
dropped all of the charges related to supplying navigational
units that allegedly couldn't meet the 65-below-zero
requirement as part of a settlement package. Those
allegations had been the heart of the prosecutors' case.
   Mr. Richard of the Justice Department testified that a
major reason for abandoning the low-temperature charges was
"the last-minute disclosure of a witness" who claimed that
the two companies had a "side agreement" to warm up the
components prior to launch.
   A spokesman for Seattle-based Boeing insisted yesterday
that the company had no knowledge that the navigational
equipment "did not meet specifications" until the criminal
investigation of Northrop's activities came to light in 1987.
He added that Boeing never has been the subject of a criminal
investigation related to the cruise missile, and doesn't face
the threat of administrative scrutiny either.
   Upset that the Air Force loosened low-temperature testing
requirements on other Northrop weapons -- which the Justice
Department says dealt a "severe blow" to its prosecution of
the cruise-missile case -- lawmakers blasted Mr. Betti for
failing to keep close enough track of the company's
activities. "You don't know what your managers are doing,
{and} your managers don't know what Northrop is doing," Rep.
Dingell snapped. "I am worried that no one knows what is
going on."
   Rep. John Bryant (D., Texas) flatly asserted: "I have some
doubts about whether you're the right man" to run Pentagon
acquisitions.
   Mr. Betti, acknowledging that he has paid hardly any
attention to the wide-ranging criminal probes, allegations
and convictions involving Northrop, nevertheless told angry
lawmakers that, "I have no reason to . . . recommend" barring
the entire company from new Pentagon contracts.
   Yet the Justice Department, along with senior members of
the subcommittee, said debarment is required, given what Rep.
Dingell called "over a dozen ongoing" grand jury
investigations focusing on Northrop. A company spokesman,
however, discounted such talk, saying "those are
investigations" and nothing more.
   Citing a letter earlier this month from the U.S.
attorney's office in Los Angeles to Northrop, the spokesman
added that the company is not "either a subject or a target"
of an investigation connected with a recent, highly
publicized raid of the factory where it makes a section of
the F/A18 fighter. Rather, that inquiry is apparently limited
to one employee, the spokesman said. "The Justice Department
had ample opportunity to clarify that issue at the hearing,
but never did. You have to wonder why."
   The spokesman also said that Mr. Kresa was given only six
working days to prepare for the hearing and that one of Mr.
Jones's attorneys was out of the country and a family member
had to be hospitalized for a medical emergency last week.
Both executives, he added, have expressed a desire to
testify.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   CUE CTCO WHR BA NSP BDK DAL MDW GM DGN TER SVGI MTSC EOG
OCAS WTI MYL F KLAC SNT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Quantum Chemical      $ .27  $ .01  (4) $ .54 (12) 2600.00
  Cross &amp; Trecker        (.10)  (.20) (3)  (.11) (6)    ...
  Whirlpool               .54    .44  (3)   .51  (6)   22.73
  Boeing                 1.12    .93  (5)   .98 (19)   20.43
  Northern States Pwr     .70    ...        .54  (4)   29.63
  Black &amp; Decker          .26    ...        .22  (9)   18.18
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Delta Air Lines       $1.47  $2.14  (4) $2.15 (15)   31.31
  Midway Airlines       (1.24)  (.97) (3)  (.92) (7)    ...
  General Motors         1.32   1.40  (6)  1.44 (14)    5.71
  Data General           (.71)   ...       (.24)(10)    ...
  Teradyne               (.23)   ...       (.16) (6)    ...
  Silicon Valley          .04    ...        .06  (7)   33.33
  MTS Systems             .31    ...        .46  (3)   32.61
  Enron Oil &amp; Gas         .07    ...        .10  (4)   30.00
  Ohio Casualty          1.14    ...       1.30  (9)   12.31
  Wheelabrator Tech       .45    ...        .50  (6)   10.00
  Mylan Laboratories      .21    ...        .24  (4)    8.70
  Ford Motor             1.67    ...       1.81 (15)    7.73
  KLA Instruments         .12    ...        .13  (5)    7.69
  Sonat                   .37    ...        .40  (8)    7.50

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900730-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900730-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook:
   Midwest States
   Show Surprising Pep
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The economic party's over on the East Coast
and much of the West. But look at the wallflower Midwestern
states. They haven't wilted yet.
   As the nation's long economic expansion in the 1980s
stretched into a bicoastal boom, America's heartland missed
out on some of the greatest merrymaking -- real estate
appreciating at more than 25% a year, government dollars
gushing for big defense contracts. But while the East and
West coasts raked in most of the party favors, the Midwestern
industrial states quietly picked themselves up from the
devastation of the last recession, evolving into more
diverse, resilient economies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now comes the test for the new Rust Belt.
   As the nation edgily eyes the likelihood of a prolonged
economic slowdown or even downturn, will the big industrial
states finally defy economic tradition? Will they escape the
hard fall that prior recessions have guaranteed?
                                                                                                       

   The latest evidence suggests that this time things could
be different indeed. While the U.S. economy has slowed
markedly over the past year and while national manufacturing
employment has declined month after month, the unemployment
rates of Ohio, Indiana and Illinois remain around the
national average -- near full employment by many economists'
standards.
                                                                                                       

   In May the jobless rate in Indiana, which has a big
auto-parts industry, was 5.2% of the civilian work force
while the nation's was 5.3%. Illinois's was 5.4% and Ohio's
5.6%. Only Michigan, center of the battered auto industry,
had a worrisomely high level of unemployment, 7.1% of the
work force, the third worst in the nation.
   By contrast, in the early 1980s state unemployment rates
in the region shot past the nation's by a nearly two
percentage points. Ohio's jobless rate was more than 12.5% in
1982, while the U.S.'s was at 9.7%. Illinois' was 11.3% and
Indiana's 11.9%.
   Or take housing -- widely believed to be in a recession
nationwide but still growing in the Midwest. New residential
construction, measured by square foot of floor space, is down
about 5% in the U.S. from last year, but it's up by about 5%
in the district served by the Chicago Federal Reserve:
   Northern Illinois, Iowa, the lower peninsula of Michigan,
most of Indiana and southern Wisconsin. Nonresidential square
footage is down about 7% nationwide but is up about 14% in
the region.
                                                                                                       

   Even manufacturing, though clearly softer than a few years
ago, isn't as bad off as it could be in the current economic
climate. Booming exports are keeping factories churning.
                                                                                                       

   "We are competing in an international manufacturing
marketplace that we couldn't have competed in successfully a
decade ago," says Michael Bryan, an economist at the
Cleveland Federal Reserve Bank. "Ten years ago it was all
manufacturers could have done to get some government relief
from foreign competition; now they seem to be seeking it
out."
   The Midwest's relative health in the face of softness in
the national economy, particularly its manufacturing sector,
in part reflects its new diversity. No matter what happens to
manufacturing, fewer people in the region are tied to it.
   An increasing portion of the population works in health
care, financial services, legal services, data processing and
other service jobs. In the Detroit metropolitan area, the
portion of people working in manufacturing has fallen to 23%
from nearly 35% in 1978, though many of the services are
still dependent on the auto industry.
   In Ohio, the portion of the nonagricultural work force
employed in manufacturing, for example, has dropped from
36.3% in 1970 to 22.8% in 1990. In Youngstown, a heavy
manufacturing center whose closed steel factories and long
unemployment lines were the emblem of devastation in the last
recession, nonmanufacturing employment grew 3.5% in the year
ended in April, which was higher than the gain nationwide.
                                                                                                       

   "It's a lot more diversified, more viable economy than
before," says Theodore Tung, chief economist at Cleveland
National Bank. "That doesn't mean Ohio isn't going to be
affected by national trends, but I would say it's much less
vulnerable to a cyclical downturn than before."
                                                                                                       

   But while the real estate and defense booms largely
bypassed the Midwest, so too may the busts. "For a long time
we complained about not getting our fair share of defense
contracts, but now it's starting to look like it's not that
bad a thing," says David Allardice, an economist at the
Chicago Federal Reserve.
   Mr. Allardice adds: "We're no boom, no bust -- just kind
of Midwestern blase, business as usual. Business is slowing,
without major concern."
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   THEODORE H. TUNG is chief economist of National City Corp.
in Cleveland. He was incorrectly identified in last Monday's
edition.
   (WSJ July 30, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
