<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Stevens Graphics Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SVGA
</CO>
<LP>
   STEVENS GRAPHICS Corp. (Fort Worth, Texas) -- Edmund H.
Damon, former chief executive officer of Pantasote Inc., was
elected a director of this maker of printing equipment,
increasing board membership to eight.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   USAir Group Names
   Schofield President
   Of Namesake Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   U WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ARLINGTON, Va. -- Seth E. Schofield is being promoted to
the post of president of the namesake airline unit of USAir
Group Inc., making him the top contender to succeed Chairman
Edwin I. Colodny.
   Industry analysts said the promotion, to take effect June
1, moves Mr. Schofield above his top rival for the chairman's
job, Randall Malin, who is executive vice president,
marketing, at the airline unit, USAir, and the holding
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Schofield, 50 years old, is being promoted from his
position as executive vice president, operations, for the
unit. He will keep that title at the holding company.
   A company spokesman confirmed that Mr. Malin, 53, will
report to Mr. Schofield at the unit. Both executives are on
equal footing at the holding company.
   The question of who will succeed Mr. Colodny has been the
subject of much speculation, largely fueled by the fact that
Mr. Colodny, 63, will reach the company's retirement age in
about 13 months.
   As late as two weeks ago, Mr. Colodny stayed quiet on the
subject. At the company's annual shareholders meeting, Mr.
Colodny wouldn't say whether or not he plans to continue
running the company after he turns 65. He said such a move
would depend on board approval. "The board is well aware" of
its options, he said.
   He declined to comment on whether he had pegged someone as
a successor. Industry experts said Mr. Colodny might look
outside the company for a candidate.
   As president of the unit, Mr. Schofield will be succeeding
Mr. Colodny, who will retain his posts as chairman and chief
executive officer at the airline unit. Mr. Colodny also
remains chairman and president of USAir Group.
   Messrs. Malin and Schofield are vice chairmen of USAir
Group. The two men and Mr. Colodny will continue to make up
the office of the chairman at the holding company. The
triumvirate was created a year ago in preparation for the
merger of USAir and Piedmont Airlines. The merger was
completed in August but has been hamstrung by operational and
customer service problems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford Extends Rebate
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DEARBORN, Mich. -- Ford Motor Co. said it increased the
rebate on the Ford LTD Crown Victoria to $1,000 from $750.
The No. 2 auto maker also extended its other car and truck
incentive offers through July 9.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Swiss Jobless Rate Eases to 0.5%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BERN -- Switzerland's unemployment rate eased to 0.5% in
April from 0.6% in March, the government said. Persons out of
work numbered 16,634 in April, while 18,701 jobs went
unfilled.
   In April 1989, the jobless rates was 0.6%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong Orders Fall 2%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7D
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Orders on hand at Hong Kong's 200 largest
manufacturers fell 2% in March from a year earlier and was
unchanged compared with the previous month, the government
reported.
   The backlog of orders in the clothing sector, Hong Kong's
largest export industry, was also off 2% from the previous
year and unchanged from February.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hush] Noise Cops
   In San Antonio Are
   Armed, Dangerous
   ---
   They Stalk Boom Boxes, Bars
   And an Elusive Crooner;
   A Loud, Nefarious Laugh
   ----
   By David D. Medina
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   SAN ANTONIO, Texas -- It's Friday night at the La
Cucaracha Lounge. Inside the smoky, cavernous bar, a blaring
Mexican-Western band has the joint jumping.
   But outside, Rudy Davila and Horace Neaves are about to
give the bar the silent treatment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two hulking figures in gray and white uniforms ease
their white pickup truck to the curb and aim a black
apple-sized microphone toward the din spilling into the
street. A dial on the attached box swings to the figure 78.
   "Burn 'em," orders the 6-foot-4 Mr. Davila, as he and Mr.
Neaves pile out, and like lawmen from some old Western, part
a wake through the revelers. They slap a ticket on the club's
owner that will mean $98 in fines and court costs.
   Forget the Alamo. San Antonio has a new, and some think
equally lost cause: enforcing a six-month-old city ordinance
making it illegal to be too loud. Noise abatement is nothing
new, of course. Make too much of a racket anywhere, and you
can earn a disturbing-the-peace citation. Many cities also
have specific limits for everything from car mufflers to jet
airplanes. But most enforce their rules case-by-case, in
response to complaints, often using off-duty police officers.
   San Antonio has tiptoed one step beyond: In the duo of Mr.
Davila, 29, and Mr. Neaves, 57, it has a new, full-time team
of official noise-busters. The two beat cops are empowered
not only to answer complaints but also to sample ambient
sounds and write citations at will. To get the job done, they
have been outfitted with a $7,600 portable sound analyzer,
badges and guns. "To my knowledge . . . that's unique," says
Joseph Soporowski, director of the Noise Technical Assistance
Center at New Jersey's Rutgers University.
   So far, the silence sentries have brought to justice
several raucous saloons and, alas, a hapless bride and groom
whose wedding reception band was a bit too enthusiastic.
They've also stalked a cantankerous parrot, some obnoxious
roosters and a man who, clad only in underwear, periodically
serenades his next-door neighbor.
   They've even busted God. Sort of. They forced the South
Zarzamora Baptist Church to tone down its bell tower chimes.
The chimes, programmed to play hymns only during the day,
developed a nasty habit of malfunctioning in the wee hours,
waking neighbors to strains of "How Great Thou Art."
   Some see San Antonio as leaping into a quiet cause
abandoned by the federal government. Around the country,
"there are a lot of regulations, but they aren't being
enforced," maintains Mr. Soporowski. He says that federal
noise control efforts have all but ended with deep budget
cuts at the Environmental Protection Agency.
   Moreover, he says, people underestimate the harmful
effects of noise. At 65 decibels -- the average level of
noise in Manhattan, the country's loudest urban center -- it
interferes with normal conversation.
   Constant noise above 85 decibels -- such as eight hours of
a screaming child -- can deaden hearing, adds Joseph J.
Rizzo, executive director of Better Hearing Institute. Others
say loud noise can cause blood vessel contractions that
produce headaches, fatigue, higher blood pressure and even
heart attacks. It also can disrupt concentration, cause
stress and lead to a mental breakdown.
   For folks in San Antonio, however, relief is on the way.
The city has set a legal limit for "vexing, hazardous" sound
at 74 decibels in most instances, when measured from the
sidewalk property line. "We're here to protect their health,"
declares Mr. Davila.
   What started as a simple effort to hush up some loud bars
produced the sweeping city ordinance that makes sounds above
the prescribed limits cause for a summons. Fines can range
from $35 to $1,000, more after a second offense. After a
third, the officers can seek a search warrant and remove the
source of the noise. So far, more than 50 citations have been
issued.
   Mr. Davila and Mr. Neaves work lousy hours -- 7:30 p.m. to
4:30 a.m. -- but that's when noise carries most easily and is
most disruptive.
   Their main target most nights is a strip of bars and
restaurants along St. Mary's Street, which divides a
residential neighborhood. As word spreads that the two are
heading down St. Mary's, armed with handcuffs, .357 Magnums
and the sound analyzer swung over one of their shoulders, bar
employees scramble to warn their bosses. The manager of
Wacky's, a popular live-music spot, rushes inside after being
told his music is too loud. He returns and obsequiously asks,
"Is that better?"
   Mr. Davila complains that he and Mr. Neaves are becoming
too well known. "Eventually, we may have to go undercover,"
he jokes. At times the two park their truck blocks away and
slip through back alleys to nail an unsuspecting decibel
deviator.
   Mr. Neaves, a former police sergeant and a cop for 36
years before taking this job, admits that some of his former
colleagues poke fun at him, turning conspicuously quiet when
he's around.
   "I can't believe how quiet it is," says Mr. Davila,
standing in a crowd of young bar-hoppers on St. Mary's
Street. "Before, you couldn't hold a conversation out here."
   Most residents -- especially those over 40 -- praise the
effort. "I'm in favor of it. I hate noise," says Larry Ronald
White, 43. That's noteworthy, for Mr. White recently was
ticketed because a rock-n-roll band playing on his patio for
his daughter's wedding reception was making too much racket.
   Understandably, the 24-year-old bride was a little less
charitable about the citation. She "thought it was terrible,"
Mr. White admits. The fine was dropped after Mr. White wrote
to a judge pointing out that he was a first-offender and that
his house was really "not a big noise center."
   Owners of some local night spots are less enthusiastic.
"If I had known the noise ordinance was going into effect I
wouldn't have gotten into this business," contends bar owner
Marty Bane. "It restricts you so much; you can't do
anything."
   Mr. Bane has taken precautions, though. After being fined
$35 for having a too-loud band, he spent another $35 on his
own Radio Shack decibel reader and then hired someone at $5
an hour to use it, as well as to warn him when the noise-cops
are around.
   Claude Morgan, an employee of the Maui Waui T-shirt store,
previously forced to lower the volume of a "boom-box" tape
player out front, has launched a more obnoxious
counterattack. When Mr. Davila and Mr. Neaves show up, he
bursts into a wild laugh, then asks if that's a violation.
Sometimes he puts "Noise-Cops" on the tape player, an
original song that he and a friend composed that repeats the
title -- loudly -- ad nauseam.
   Despite the grumbling, most business owners are caving in.
The real trouble comes from rowdy patrons who openly defy the
enforcers, says Mr. Davila. The towering 268-pound officer
got into a scuffle with one drunken man who claimed to be
defending a constitutional right to make noise. The encounter
was no contest.
   The dynamic duo's brushes with the animal kingdom have
been less successful. A loudmouthed parrot flew the coop as
they arrived. "We could see a perch where they kept it
outside, but it wasn't there," Mr. Neaves recalls. Four
German shepherds kept behind a chain-link fence gave the
officers the silent treatment. "We went out three different
times and they never barked once," he adds. And 15 roosters
that occupied a back yard pulled the same stunt. As the
officers waited for the morning song, nothing happened. "They
made chicken noises, but no crowing," says Mr. Davila.
   Then there's the mysterious serenader who reportedly
stands on his roof at 2:30 a.m. in his skivvies while he
sings to his next door neighbor, asleep by her bedroom
window. Every time, the nocturnal Don Juan scrams before the
noise busters show up.
   "We think he disappears when he sees her make a phone call
{to the police}," says Mr. Davila. "It's bizarre," he says
with a silent shrug.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Sullivan's Predictions
   Have All Come True
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your April 11 editorial on medical insurance put to mind
an incident that occurred 35 years ago, which I thought might
be of interest.
   In the winter of 1955-56, I was traveling back from New
Haven with the Riverdale Fencing Team, with my parents as the
team chaperons. Usually it would have been a trip made by car
and school bus, but there had been a heavy snow overnight and
we were consigned to the tender mercies of the New Haven
Railroad. My parents shuffled all of us into the dining car
for a little sustenance. We were the only people in the
dining section of the car, but down at the other end in the
club section was a couple enjoying cocktails. It took us
about one second to realize that the man was none other than
Ed Sullivan, who was certainly one of the most recognizable
people in America in those days. There was the usual
schoolboy excitement in the presence of a celebrity and the
usual banter about who was going to be brave enough to
approach him for an autograph, or interview for the school
paper, or whatever. Sullivan was perfectly aware of us, as we
were not a small group, or especially quiet -- as we had
bested Yale in the day's match.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   None of us were making too much progress in deciding who
was going down to see him, and Sullivan was, of course,
innately aware of the subject of our conversation. Finally,
he leaned forward and gave us a big sweeping motion with his
hand, indicating that if we would all troop down the length
of the car we would be welcome. He was charming and we were
all captivated.
   Then, he treated us to a 15-minute virtual diatribe on the
evils of medical insurance and how it was going to inflate
the cost of health-care delivery to unimaginable proportions.
My parents, who were in the insurance business, were of
course the only ones present who had the slightest idea of
what he was talking about; but the vehemence with which he
expressed his ideas left a deep impression on me, and the
fact that all of his predictions have come true has only
enhanced the memory of that experience.
   Kenyon B. FitzGerald Jr.
   McAteer &amp; FitzGerald
   Underwriting Managers
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hitachi Venture Tender Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7B
</SO>
<CO>
   J.HTK J.NIE DPC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- A joint venture owned by affiliates of
Hitachi Corp. said it acquired 14.8 million shares, or 94%,
of Dataproducts Corp.'s shares outstanding under its tender
offer.
   The Tokyo electronics group's two affiliates, Hitachi Koki
Co. and Nissei Sangyo Co., offered to buy all shares of
Dataproducts, a Woodland Hills, Calif., computer printer
maker, for $10 a share. The joint venture is named HND Corp.
The tender offer expired last Thursday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   On Sports: Sweetpea Takes It
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   Las Vegas, Nev. -- If one accepts the fact that not
everybody can be -- or should want to be -- Popeye, 12 pretty
good rounds of fisticuffs occured in the big shed behind
Caesars Palace here Saturday night. They were produced by
blade-keen Pernell "Sweetpea" Whitaker, a lightweight
champion with a proper lightweight's mentality. This is to
say that he sees his job as hitting the other guy without
being hit in return.
   Whitaker, from Norfolk, Va., played matador to Azumah
Nelson's bull, Nelson, from Ghana, being a big man in a
little man's body. The fight's pattern was the same from
opening to closing bell, with Nelson charging and Whitaker
parrying. The left-hander stuck his right jab into Nelson's
goatee about 500 times, and whapped his left into his foe's
ribs with about the same frequency. And when Nelson managed
to get too close for comfort, Whitaker did the Sweetpea thing
and ducked or slipped away.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The result wasn't pleasing to all of the 4,000 or so souls
who witnessed it; a guy sitting behind me, for example, kept
exhorting Whitaker to stand and fight. That, of course, was
easy for him to say, which is the essence of fandom, and
Whitaker was too busy at the time to reply. But, later, his
trainer, George Benton, took the trouble to explain.
   "We told Pea to fight him (Nelson) like he had bad breath,
and Pea followed the plan to a `T'," grinned Benton. "We
thought we'd win this one any way we could, and look good the
next time."
   I thought Whitaker looked plenty good this time, good
enough to win every round on merit save, maybe, the last two.
In fact, he had a point -- and, thus, the 12th round taken
from him by referee Mills Lane, who objected to his grabbing
and lifting Nelson's leg as the fighters clinched in the late
going. Whitaker who gets clownish if he's sure of a decision,
must have learned that trick from Harpo Marx. To place any
other rounds in Nelson's column, one had to value aggression
for its own sake.
   And in fact -- and as anyone familiar with these things
probably has already guessed -- two of the three judges did
just that, making Whitaker's victory margin a spare two
points. In case you might be tempted to buy a used car from
them, their names are Harry Gibbs and Sid Nathan. Judge Dalby
Shirley displayed a tighter grip on reality by scoring it
116-111 for Whitaker, or nine rounds to three.
   The switcheroo in this fight was that Nelson, the fella
who did the pursuing, was stepping up to the 135-pound
lightweight class. He came in as the World Boxing Council's
super-featherweight (130-pound) champ, and that title, in
turn, had been a step upward from the featherweights, where
he'd campaigned for most of his 11-year professional career.
   The 31-year-old Nelson's stock in trade is power, as
attested by his 24 knockouts (and 32 wins) in 33 previous
bouts. Although normally well mannered, the African
participated in the fight's hype by allowing promoter Don
King to portray him as someone who'd been eating raw meat and
fighting lions with a switch, and by entering the ring in
leopard-spotted trunks and shoes. His own contribution to
press conference nonsense on Thursday was the observation
that Whitaker's "bones are too soft to beat someone like me."
   Whatever its texture, Whitaker's frame was sufficiently
sturdy to support world's lightweight championship belts
conferred by the WBC and International Boxing Federation, (if
you're scoring, that's two of the ungoverned sport's four
governing outfits), and it was his titles that were on the
line Saturday. They are just the latest in a long list of
baubles captured by the swift 26-year-old.
   Whitaker was a member of the 1984 U.S. Olympic boxing
squad, and his gold medal, at 132 pounds, was one of that
crew's record haul. If some of his teammates' titles were
devalued by the Soviet-bloc boycott, his was not, because
he'd beaten the best of the Cuban and East European fighters
in winning gold medals at the 1983 World Championships and
the Pan-American Games.
   As a pro, Whitaker had entered the ring 22 times and had
his hand raised after 21 of them. The exception was a 1988
bout with Jose Luiz Ramirez for the WBC lightweight title in
Paris, France, Ramirez's adopted home city. Whitaker broke
his left hand early on in that one, but still fought so well
that, in the end, only Ramirez's close relatives and two of
the three judges gave the Mexican the nod.
   Whitaker evened the score last August by pasting Ramirez
in his own hometown of Norfolk. In the opinion of two of the
judges in that one, Sweetpea lost nary a round of the 12.
That's boxing's version of a shutout.
   In several rounds Saturday, Whitaker pitched a virtual
no-hitter, jabbing and then darting out of the reach of
Nelson's lunges. Nelson connected solidly a few times, but
without noticeable effect. The picture that will endure from
this go is of Nelson swinging at Whitaker along the ropes,
and hitting the robes because Whitaker had long since ducked
out.
   Afterwards, Whitaker tipped his cap to his foe by calling
Nelson "a man who brought things out of me," and by cringing
in mock anguish at the thought of a rematch, even though
nobody suggested one.
   Whitaker earned a reported $500,000 for the fight, his
first both in Las Vegas and on HBO television, boxing's "big
time." Unfortunately for him, he doesn't promise to grow much
physically, which seems to preclude more-lucrative bouts with
bigger guys, like Julio Cesar Chavez.
   Shelly Finkel, Whitaker's co-manager, suggested that a
lightweight-title unification match, with World Boxing
Association beltist Juan Nazario, is a future possibility. So
are fights with Jeff Fenech, the Australian super-feather,
and Jorge Paez, the bouncy Mexican who fights in a skirt and
has weird things shaved onto his head.
   That last matchup is especially intriguing. Off Saturday's
result, Whitaker might add the imprint of his right glove to
Paez's hairdo.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford to Idle Atlanta Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DEARBORN, Mich. -- Ford Motor Co. said it will temporarily
idle its Atlanta assembly plant next week for one week
because of slow dealer orders for the Ford Taurus and Mercury
Sable cars built there.
   The move will affect about 2,500 hourly workers on the
plant's two shifts, and it will cut Taurus and Sable
production by about 5,000 cars. Ford's decision to idle the
Atlanta plant follows the one-week idling this week of its
Chicago plant, which also builds the midsized Taurus and
Sable. Ford also blamed the Chicago plant move on a shortage
of dealer orders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   School Days:
   Three Missing Keys to Public-School Reform
   ----
   By Gene I. Maeroff
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Seven years after the onset of the school reform movement,
public education in America is no less a subject of concern
that it was on the day in 1983 when the report "A Nation At
Risk" was released.
   Now, attention is turning to the need for massive
restructuring that, in part, would reorganize schools into
smaller units and delegate decision making to those at
individual school buildings. In addition, some reformers
advocate a shakeup in the curriculum in terms of what is
taught and how it is taught.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Restructuring is necessary, but it is still not a
solution. America is fooling itself if it thinks that public
education will get better without addressing some of the
major value-laden obstacles to improvement. Here are three:
   1) Students must come to appreciate that learning takes
hard work.
   Most American students do not work very hard and, as a
result, do not learn nearly as much as they could. Minimal
effort is the rule. In "The Shopping Mall High School," a
study of the nation's secondary schools, the authors said
that a kind of tacit treaty exists in the schools. It is
understood that teachers will not demand much of students if
students, in turn, do not hassle the teachers.
   I have been in countless classrooms in urban high schools
where the level of work was embarrassingly easy, essentially
on the level of a suburban elementary school. On the other
hand, college-preparatory courses in suburban high schools
are often watered down to accommodate students' desires, and
some elective courses lack rigor altogether. Grade inflation
exacerbates self-delusion.
   What is missing from the experience of many students is
any sense of intellectual struggle, any recognition that true
learning may require delayed gratification. There is
disregard for high expectations because that would mean long
hours of concentrated reading, some grueling memorization and
one revision after another to perfect a theme paper.
   Much has been written about Asian-Americans who exceed
other Americans in scholastic achievement. Asian-Americans,
in general, work harder. It has been documented, for
instance, that they devote more time to homework. In San
Francisco, a study found that Asian-Americans did 46% more
homework than white students and 85% more than black
students.
   Some teachers have stopped assigning homework because
students won't do it. More than one of five 11th graders
responded in a survey by the National Assessment of
Educational Progress that they did no homework. Questions of
homework's worth aside, this is a commentary on the work
ethic of students.
   Such subjects as mathematics and science, which require
particular diligence, are unattractive to students. Physics
is studied by only 31.7% of those on the academic track and
by fewer than 1% on the nonacademic track. By the time they
reach college, only 1.5% of undergraduates have the
preparation and the patience to major in mathematics.
   The reform movement, while adding course requirements, has
too often failed to make demands on students. The extra years
of English, math, social studies and science tend to consist
of basic or general or remedial courses, not advanced work,
according to a study by the Center for Policy Research in
Education at Rutgers University. It is no accident that so
few students attain levels of sophisticated thinking in
subject after subject that is examined by the National
Assessment.
   School reform is discussed in terms of its role in making
America economically competitive. It should be clear to
anyone who has read about the work habits of students and
employees in Japan that it will take more than school
restructuring to make American students competitive.
   2) Schools must be communities within which scholastic
achievement is valued.
   Creating a proper climate for teaching and learning should
be a prerequisite to all else that takes place in school
building. The learning community is imperiled when students
are fearful or anxious, when peer pressure denigrates
scholarship, when there is divisiveness or when students do
not feel a sense of belonging.
   Misconduct poisons the atmosphere in some schools, and
violence in the cities has gotten so bad that traveling to
and from school has become a journey through a war zone.
Chicago is considering installing school rooms at housing
projects so that students do not have to make the dangerous
trip to school and New York has started to provide special
guarded subway cars for students.
   Not enough is said about the pressures that impede
schoolwork and undermine the goals of education. Sports,
clothes, cars -- all are taken more seriously than schoolwork
by many students. Many who do not really need the money work
part-time jobs because they want disposable income. By 12th
grade, 66% of students hold jobs; those who work more than 20
hours a week have the lowest academic performance. For
impoverished students, who need the income, there is the
battle to resist the lure of the drug trade. What motivation
is there for academic perseverance when riches are available?
   Dropout prevention efforts are frequently misdirected,
seeking to hold students in an atmosphere where education is
not valued. If young people remain in school -- at least at
the high schools with the highest dropout rates -- they are
still in settings counterproductive to good education, taking
insubstantial courses that prepare them for little.
   School reform will barely matter if the values shaping the
school culture are left untouched. Self-discipline and inner
controls must be cultivated in young people if they are to be
engaged in learning of intellectual consequence. Schools must
be sanctuaries, where education is valued. This is no easy
task, especially in the inner city, given the influence of
neighborhood culture on values in the school.
   Everything that happens in school must be testimony to the
importance of learning and attempts must be made to extend
the support network for this attitude beyond the walls of the
school, to the places where children spend most of their
time.
   This does not mean that learning can never be enjoyable or
that there is no role in schools for athletics and
extracurricular activities. But the primacy of the learning
community must be stressed above all and steps taken to get
young people to want to share the values of that community.
For masses of students, there will be no learning until this
happens.
   3) Parents must reinforce the schooling of their children.
   Students don't just appear at school out of nowhere and
then fade into nothingness each afternoon. They almost always
live in homes with at least one adult. Those adults have more
impact -- positively or negatively -- on a child's scholastic
achievement than some observers seem willing to acknowledge.
There is a tendency to act as if schools and social agencies
can take up the slack, but such an approach seldom succeeds
in the long run and no one yet has found a sure-fire antidote
for the problem of parents ill-equipped for parenthood.
   School reform can go just so far in filling the void
created by mothers and fathers who fail to provide the
foundation and the reinforcement that children need for
school. Just one example of what the schools confront can be
seen in statistics showing that second-year algebra is taken
in high school by 27.3% of students whose parents were not
high school graduates, 41.7% whose parents completed high
school and went no further, and 65.7% of students whose
parents attended college.
   The home has an enormous impact on children as learners.
It is not essential that parents be well educated themselves
in order to set up circumstances that will help their
children succeed in school. In fact, many readers of this
article are the offspring of parents of modest education.
Values in the home and in the neighborhood can do much to
give students a positive attitude about school.
   Some notable efforts are now under way around the country
to try to bond parents to schools and to train them in the
ways that will abet the schooling of their children. Let's
hope that these attempts work, because most of what is
happening under the aegis of school reform is otherwise in
jeopardy of failure.
   ---
   Mr. Maeroff is a fellow at the Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of Teaching. His most recent book is "The
SchoolSmart Parent," due out in paperback from Henry Holt in
September.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Steel Wins Navy Job
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   MD
</CO>
<IN>
SHIPBUILDERS OF COMMERCIAL SHIPS (SHP)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- National Steel &amp; Shipbuilding Co. received a
$233.4 million Navy contract for advanced planning for ship
maintenance.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   McDonnell Douglas Corp. won a $10.9 million Air Force
contract for KC-10 aircraft support.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace:
   Johnson &amp; Johnson `Wellness' Program
   For Workers Shows Healthy Bottom Line
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   JNJ LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. -- Johnson &amp; Johnson has spent more
than a century selling health-care products to consumers --
to make money. It has spent 11 years selling healthful living
to its own employees -- to save money.
   Cost containment has been a major goal of its wellness
program since day oneand that goal has apparently been met.
Johnson &amp; Johnson says that last year the program saved $378
per employee by lowering absenteeism and by slowing the rise
in the company's health-care expenses. The cost of the
program, which offers checkups and encourages healthier
eating and exercise habits, is $200 per employee.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   J&amp;J is one of only a handful of companies that have made
comprehensive examinations of the costs and benefits of their
programs. It is precisely because of this lack of hard data
that many other corporate wellness programs are vulnerable to
cost-cutting pressure, one expert says. "In a rough economic
climate, one of the first things that is cut is a health
program or a wellness program," says Roger Reed, who
supervises wellness programs for Blue Cross and Blue Shield
of Indiana. "The reason is a lot of wellness-program
administrators haven't done a good job of documenting the
results."
   That hasn't been the case with Johnson &amp; Johnson. Its
study took three years and involved 8,000 employees. Wellness
was tested just as the company would experiment with a new
drug, with both a test group and a control group.
   The company tracked medical costs and productivity of
5,000 workers at three subsidiaries whose executives were
willing to give it a try. The control group consisted of
other units that didn't have such a program. During the first
year, the wellness program cost more than it saved. In the
second year, it broke even. And in the third year, it saved
enough money to pay back the losses during the first year.
   Health-care costs at Johnson &amp; Johnson, which is
self-insured, have risen about 310% over the past decade. But
these same costs spurted an estimated 460% at 30 similar
companies that J&amp;J tracks to determine its own wage and
compensation levels. Last year, J&amp;J says, it spent $93.5
million on medical costs, up 10% from 1988. That compared
with a 20% rise at the other 30 concerns.
   The wellness program has been enough of a success that J&amp;J
began marketing it to other companies four years ago. So far,
Johnson &amp; Johnson Health Management Inc. is providing varying
levels of service to about 60 companies with a total of more
than 850,000 employees.
   Outside experts generally give high marks to Johnson &amp;
Johnson's internal program, but some criticize the emphasis
on cost containment. Edward J. Bernacki, vice president of
Tenneco Inc., which has an aggressive wellness program of its
own, agrees that wellness programs save money over the long
run, but he contends that such a saving shouldn't be the
primary reason for starting one. "I think it kind of cheapens
a program," says Mr. Bernacki, "to say we're doing it because
there's a gain in it for the company."
   At Johnson &amp; Johnson's headquarters here, employees can
work out in a first-floor gym, select "healthy heart" foods
in the cafeteria, and check their weight in restrooms. They
are even encouraged to drop hints to fellow workers about
losing weight or giving up smoking.
   "We've developed an environment where it's OK for a worker
to say, `John, you're putting on a few pounds,'" says John S.
Brown, J&amp;J's vice president of employee relations. Mr. Brown
should know, because he just shed 40 pounds on a diet and, in
turn, has been nagging his secretary to quit smoking.
   Do employees not participating in the program feel
pressured by such nagging? Anthony A. Herrmann, Johnson &amp;
Johnson's vice president of health, safety and environmental
affairs, suspects there may have been some resentment about
the approach, especially in the beginning. But he says it has
never been a big issue and there hasn't been a "hue or cry."
   Lewis Maltby, who heads the American Civil Liberties
Union's task force on work place civil liberties, lauded
Johnson &amp; Johnson for having a wellness program, but he took
issue with the practice of encouraging employees to drop
hints. "There is a danger that you'll go from helping people
do something they want to do into coercing people," he says.
   The goals of the program are pretty basic: Stop smoking,
eat more fruit and fewer fatty foods, get some exercise, and
buckle up your seatbelt.
   "The way you change the health of the whole population is
to get the whole population to make small changes in a lot of
areas," says Curtis S. Wilbur, a Johnson &amp; Johnson executive
who helped write a study on the wellness program.
   The program, called Live for Life, is voluntary. Employees
joining the program receive a 19-page questionnaire, part of
a health-risks profile. They must ponder such questions as
these:
   How many times a week do you add salt to your food?
   How many flights of stairs do you climb a day?
   Have people ever annoyed you by criticizing your drinking?
   How many close friends do you have? (The question on close
friends is part of a section examining the employee's mental
health. If responses to several of these questions indicate
the person is suffering from depression, he or she might be
referred for further counseling.)
   The completed questionnaire is immediately analyzed by
computer, which prints out a response that points out areas
where employees may not have healthy habits.
   A nurse practitioner then goes over the results of the
survey with the employees, takes their blood pressure and
tests their pulse while they ride an exercise bicycle.
   The questionnaire and the session with the nurse can
produce big results in themselves. "That kind of face-to-face
education is maybe the most important part of Live for Life,"
says David Calkins, an assistant professor at Harvard Medical
School, who has done research on health promotion. In fact, a
Johnson &amp; Johnson study found that employees got about half
the benefits of the wellness program just by going through
the health-risks profile.
   After the profile, Live for Life tries to persuade
employees to act: to exercise, watch their diets and lose
weight; to quit smoking; or to do whatever else might be
called for. Signs in hallways and brochures sent to employees
promote various programs, and workers win prizes for
participating. Employees are asked to stop in for follow-up
health-risks profiles.
   The information garnered from the questionnaire is
confidential between the employee and the company's medical
department. "I think the levels of participation would not be
anywhere as high if we had not paid attention to this issue
of confidentiality," says Dr. Herrmann.
   Live for Life now is available to all 35,000 J&amp;J employees
in the U.S. At headquarters here, nearly two-thirds of the
workers participate to some degree. The average employee, for
instance, exercises in the gym nearly twice a week.
   Some have no desire to participate. "I eat what I want. I
eat as much as I want, and my weight stays the same," says
Herbert Brown, the 56-year-old security supervisor, as he
polishes off a plate of bacon and eggs in the company
cafeteria. And, come lunchtime, there are plenty of employees
ordering cheeseburgers.
   Those cheeseburgers have had their effect. During the
company's three-year study, the average employee with access
to the wellness program lost only about a pound more than
other workers. The results are typical of most
weight-reduction programs, health experts say. It's not that
tough to get people to lose weight, but it's very hard to
keep them from putting the pounds back on.
   Smoking, however, is a different story. Slightly less than
20% of J&amp;J employees currently smoke, down from about 30% in
the late 1970s. "If you can get people to stop smoking, you
make a big hit in a variety of risk factors," says Frank H.
Barker, a vice president.
   The problem is that the people who still smoke are
hard-core, committed puffers. The company is taking the next
step by making its corporate headquarters completely
smoke-free on Oct. 1. Some of its subsidiaries have already
made such a move.
   Finally, J&amp;J has begun combing its data base to identify
employees with the highest risk factors, such as smoking,
high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels. The
strategy: concentrate more resources on the minority of
people who are likely to account for the majority of
health-care costs.
   ---
                      Paying the Price
                                                                                                       

   -- Average annual company cost, per employee, attributable
to smoking, hypertension and poor diet, based on medical
claims of more than 500,000 employees.
                                                                                                       

   Smoking (per smoking employee) .................  $361
   Hypertension ...................................  $ 64
   Diet (high fat, low fiber) .....................  $ 15
                                                                                                       

   -- A little more than half of the increased costs due to
smoking, hypertension and poor diet are attributable to
employees over 54 years old.
                                                                                                       

   55-64 years old ................................  56%
   45-54 years old ................................  30%
   35-44 years old ................................  12%
   Under 35 years old .............................   2%
                                                                                                       

   Note: Employer costs include lost workdays due to
hospitalization. Costs do not include decreased employee
productivity or absenteeism due to outpatient medical
services.
   Source: The National Center for Health Promotion, 1990
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Papua New Guinea Gets Aid
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN FREST JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SINGAPORE -- A group of donors including the World Bank
have agreed to provide Papua New Guinea with $710 million in
concessional loans and grants, Finance Minister Paul Pora
said.
   Concessional loans from the World Bank, Asian Development
Bank, the European Community, Australia, Japan and New
Zealand would amount to $390 million, while grants for 1990
would amount to $320 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The funds would be used for power, roads, education and to
help the economy rebound from declining commodities prices
and the closure of mines in Bougainville island, Mr. Pora
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Industry Focus:
   Delaware Bill Opens Insurance to Banks
   ---
   Measure Could Lead to
   New National Competition
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   AIG CCI CMB NCB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Delaware's passage of a bill to let banks underwrite and
sell insurance could make the state a springboard for
national insurance-marketing efforts by banks.
   A few other states allow a limited number of banks to
underwrite insurance. But the Delaware legislation, which
Gov. Michael Castle has promised to sign later this month,
goes much further. It opens the door to huge money-center and
superregional banks, several of which already have
financial-services operations in the state.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bankers see insurance as a multibillion-dollar business
opportunity, and they want to participate on a large scale.
The Castle administration and some state officials have
backed the measure because it holds the prospect of
generating thousands of new jobs that could help prolong
Delaware's economic boom.
   But a powerful insurance lobby argued vigorously that the
banks would bring unfair competition to the market. Some
major insurers, including New York-based American
International Group Inc. and Bloomington, Ill.-based State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., expressed fears that
banks will be allowed to set up insurance operations that
aren't capitalized separately from their primary businesses.
   "It's a bad bill, and it sets a bad precedent," says
Maurice Greenberg, chairman and chief executive officer of
AIG.
   The measure also raises some thorny issues for insurance
regulators, including policyholder protection, jurisdiction
and financial solvency.
   For instance, Delaware's guaranty fund, which would have
to be tapped to bail out an insolvent insurer, covers only
claims from state residents. James Long, North Carolina's
insurance commissioner, contends there wouldn't be any
protection for claimants living outside Delaware. Other
commissioners question whether Delaware regulators would be
able to go after the assets of a bank if its insurance unit
were to become insolvent.
   In 1982, Delaware insurance agents and their lobbyists
successfully beat back a similar proposal even before a bill
was formally introduced in the legislature. They weren't as
effective this time around. The current measure, which would
allow banks chartered in Delaware after 1933 to engage in all
aspects of the insurance business through separate divisions
or subsidiaries, had been passed by state's general assembly
last June.
   Some banks chartered before 1933 in Delaware are already
in the insurance business. Wilmington-based Wilmington Trust
Co., for example, owns and operates a brokerage firm and
markets insurance, but it doesn't underwrite coverage.
   Delaware is the first state to approve such a broad
measure. Other states have tried to take up the issue of
allowing banks to enter the insurance business, but agents
and insurers have generally managed to beat back the powerful
banking lobby. In Michigan, a state court recently supported
an order preventing a savings-bank unit from buying an
insurance agency. Meanwhile, in Florida, state-chartered
banks have settled for an amendment that would allow them to
sell annuities if federally chartered banks get the same
permission.
   For the time being, bankers consider the Delaware
legislation an important victory. Citicorp and Chase
Manhattan Corp., both New York-based, have been big backers
of the current measure. Last week, more than a dozen bank
lobbyists clogged the corridors of Delaware's Legislative
Hall in Dover, trying to gain the needed two-thirds majority
that would guarantee passage. The measure finally cleared
late Thursday night.
   Now major banks appear poised to seize the opportunity.
Citicorp, for example, indicates that it would be ready to
begin setting up insurance operations in Delaware as soon as
the governor signs the bill into law. NCNB Corp., Charlotte,
N.C., which announced last week that it will be consolidating
all of its credit-card operations in Delaware, may also be
interested in the insurance business, says David Swayze, an
attorney in Delaware who represents both NCNB and Citicorp.
   Dennis Shay, a banking analyst at Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.,
anticipates that, if banks can succeed in selling insurance
products to their regular clients, the appeal of starting
insurance units could reach far beyond the money-center and
superregional institutions. Insurance, he suggests, could
become like credit cards, which nearly every bank eventually
concluded it had to market. The challenge for banks is to
"push more products" through their existing distribution
channels, says Mr. Shay.
   Proponents of the Delaware bill believe banks will flock
to the state to set up national insurance operations. Indeed,
Delaware already has made itself something of a haven for
banks by relaxing its regulations in the early 1980s to allow
out-of-state banks to set up financial-services operations.
   Under the new Delaware legislation, banks can set up an
insurance unit or division, but they won't be allowed to use
the reserves or surplus capital required for banking
activities to help capitalize their insurance units. Banks
also won't be permitted to count their insurance unit's
capital as part of the capital requirements for their banking
operations.
   Even so, insurers worry that such a separation of assets
might not withstand a crisis. They fear that a troubled bank
could jeopardize or topple a healthy insurance operation.
Some insurers say they would have been more comfortable with
a plan that defined more clearly the separate business
entities, each with its own capital structure and
stockholders. AIG's Mr. Greenberg says he is angry that the
bill contains no provision to bail out an insolvent insurance
unit of a bank.
   In trying to defeat the banking bill, insurers were quick
to point out that bankers aren't always the best managers of
risks and assets, as the current thrift crisis shows. AIG
took out ads in local newspapers to air its negative views on
the banking bill.
   Insurance agents also argued that consumers would be at a
disadvantage in buying insurance from bankers, who are also
offering loans and mortgages. "There's a certain power that a
banker has," says Jack Bobo, president of the National
Association of Life Underwriters. "It immediately puts a
person negotiating with him in a lesser stance."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Panels Propose
   Defense Savings
   Of $1.7 Billion
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- House and Senate negotiators tentatively
agreed to an estimated $1.7 billion in cuts and transfers
from Pentagon accounts to help cover the immediate costs of
increased foreign aid and domestic appropriations in the
fiscal year ending Sept. 30.
   The reductions are part of a more than $4 billion fiscal
1990 supplemental-spending bill pending in Congress and would
yield enough short-term savings to allow lawmakers to stay
within this year's ceilings under the Gramm-Rudman
deficit-reduction law.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Final approval of the package is contingent on agreement
over a separate adjustment of appropriations within defense
accounts to meet a shortfall in Pentagon personnel and
medical funds. The chairmen of defense appropriations and
authorizing committees are to meet early this week on the
second issue. Though no details have been released, these
transfers are believed to total more than $1.4 billion.
   The sums involved are dwarfed by the size of the total
military budget. But the exercise illustrates the vagaries of
Gramm-Rudman and how the Pentagon -- and its allies in
Congress -- can maneuver to blunt the increased demands now
for defense cuts.
   The $1.7 billion in proposed savings, for example, satisfy
the budget law but don't truly match the long-term costs of
the new domestic and foreign-aid expenditures, which will
spill over into fiscal 1991. And by using their authority to
transfer or "reprogram" funds, the defense appropriators can
act more independently and help the Pentagon reduce the net
impact from across-the-board cuts ordered last year under
Gramm-Rudman.
   For example, under reprogramming the committees can move
money between slow-spending and fast-spending accounts on a
dollar-for-dollar basis. This is immensely helpful in
resolving an estimated $780 million shortfall in personnel
accounts owing to last fall's Gramm-Rudman cuts. Under
Gramm-Rudman rules, it would be necessary to cut
approximately $2 billion from slower-spending defense
appropriations. By using reprogramming, however, the
committees can step outside Gramm-Rudman, resolving the
problem and reducing the disruption to the military budget
far less.
   Among individual accounts, funding for a costly explosives
plant backed by Sen. Bennett Johnston (D., La.) was
preserved, but critics of the Louisiana project succeeded in
delaying construction indefinitely. A provision requiring the
Pentagon to enter into a construction contract by Aug. 1 was
eliminated, and though the $238 million appropriation will
remain through fiscal 1992, there is strong opposition in the
House to the project's ever going forward.
   The Bush administration, while frustrated by the defense
cuts, would be hard-pressed to resist them, since it has a
major stake in expediting $720 million in promised economic
assistance for Panama and Nicaragua. The measure also
includes $400 million in loan guarantees to help Israel
provide housing for incoming Soviet Jews, and in a footnote
to the bargaining last week, the $2.8 million fee charged the
Jerusalem government up front has taken on a symbolic
significance for at least some House lawmakers.
   The Senate had set the fee at $1 million; the House bill
would have allowed up to $4 million in charges. Though the
accompanying written report doesn't refer to how the fees
were set, the final number represents a $1.8 million increase
from the Senate proposal and was apparently designed by House
foreign operations subcommittee Chairman David Obey (D.,
Wis.) in response to the Israeli government's admitted role
in helping finance a private organization involved in taking
over the St. John's Hospice in the old Christian quarter of
East Jerusalem.
   The April incident provoked protests from Christian as
well as Jewish leaders for provoking tensions with the Arab
community, and the Israel housing ministry admitted it had
covertly channeled an estimated $1.8 million to help pay for
the reported $4 million purchase price.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   It'd Be a Good Place to Ballyhoo
   A Redo of `Goodbye, Mr. Chips'
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Making book in Las Vegas isn't usually a literary pursuit.
But next month, the home of the Gamblers Book Shop will host
the annual convention of the American Booksellers
Association.
   Starting June 2, thousands of bookstore owners and
managers will arrive in Las Vegas, where several hundred
exhibiting publishers will give away books, buttons and
canvas bags to promote books coming out in the next year.
Such august authors as John Updike, Amy Tan and Isabel
Allende will sign autographs. In 90 years of conventions,
this will be the first time the booksellers have gathered in
Vegas, and frankly, some participants are shocked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But despite their highbrow image, many publishers are
scheduling appropriately tacky promotions. Take "The
Encyclopedia of Bad Taste," by Jane and Michael Stern. Harper
&amp; Row, the book's publisher, has ordered caterers to serve
tuna cassarole and spam sandwiches at its book party. Guests
will mingle with Dolly Parton and Pee Wee Herman look-alikes.
Naturally, there will be accordian music, plastic flamingos
and rubber chickens.
   Avon Books, a unit of Hearst Corp., plans a party honoring
author Johanna Lindsey, whose best-selling romance novels
include "Savage Thunder" and "Defy Not the Heart." Dinner
will be served at L'Amour Chapelle, a wedding chapel, and the
50 or so couples getting married that night will all troop
past the crowd of dining booksellers.
   One of the classiest publishers in the business, Random
House, is having a huge party at the only casino with its own
erupting volcano, the new Mirage. The book being celebrated
is Random House's biggest fall title, with a first printing
of 500,000 copies. "Trump: Surviving at the Top," by Donald
Trump, is the book.
   The list goes on: Viking, an imprint of Penguin USA, is
sponsoring a poker clinic with ace British poker player
Anthony Holden, author of a book called "Big Deal." St.
Martin's Press is holding a party for "The Caesar's Palace
Book of Sports Betting Strategies" at, of course, Caesar's
Palace. And Penguin, which is publishing the paperback
edition of "Liar's Poker," is holding a party where a musical
comedy version of the book about greedy, young bond traders
will be staged.
   "We'd have done something flashy for Liar's Poker
anywhere," says a Penguin publicist. "But being in Vegas
makes it easier to get in the mood."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Columbia Gas System
   Offers Unit for Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6G
</SO>
<CO>
   CG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WILMINGTON, Del. -- Columbia Gas System Inc. said it is
offering for sale its Columbia Gas of New York Inc.
distribution unit. The unit, with annual sales of $65
million, delivers an average of 15 billion cubic feet of gas
a year and serves 67,500 customers.
   The company indicated that, although the unit has been
profitable, resources could "be better devoted to
distribution properties in states where we have a greater
market share."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The investment banking firm of Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. has
been retained to solicit bids, which won't affect any of the
five other Columbia Gas distribution units.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Africa's Trade Surplus
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   JOHANNESBURG -- South Africa's trade surplus widened to
969 million rand ($368 million) in April from 872 million
rand a year earlier, the government's Customs and Excise
office said.
   April's surplus was lower than March's surplus of 1.17
billion rand.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The figures aren't seasonally adjusted, but export and
import data are adjusted to bring them in line with the
requirements for compiling the nation's balance of payments.
   Exports for April totaled about 4.60 billion rand, against
4.55 billion a year earlier, while imports amounted to about
3.63 billion rand, compared with approximaely 3.68 billion in
April 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lionel Corp.'s Loss
   Widened to $6 Million
   In Fiscal First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6C
</SO>
<CO>
   LIO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Embattled Lionel Corp. posted a wider fiscal
first-quarter loss, citing higher expenses associated with
new stores opened late last year and lower existing-store
sales.
   The loss in the quarter ended April 28 was $6 million, or
44 cents a share, vs. $3.6 million, or 27 cents a share, a
year earlier. Sales grew 7.5% to $65.9 million from $61.3
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lionel, which currently operates 92 toy stores in 15
states, said it plans to open 10 stores in major metropolitan
markets in 1990.
   The company has been under pressure from some shareholders
to find a buyer. Earlier this year it turned down investor
Robert I. Toussie's $8-a-share, or $95.4 million, offer and
got him to drop the proposal. The stock since then has been
trading well below that level.
   Trendex Capital Management Corp., a Fort Lauderdale, Fla.,
firm representing a dissident group of Lionel shareholders
with a 5% stake, has requested that Lionel clear the way for
would-be acquirers. It also asked Lionel to empanel an
outside committee to examine Lionel's relationship with Isaac
Perlmutter and Bernard Marden.
   Messrs. Perlmutter and Marden are principals in a
media-buying company that has Lionel as a client, and Lionel
has purchased toy inventory from companies controlled by
them. Mr. Marden provided the cash for Otis Group Inc., a
newly formed entity, to buy half of Mr. Toussie's 9.9% Lionel
stake for $7 a share the day Mr. Toussie dropped his bid.
   Lionel has refused Trendex's requests and has declined to
meet with Trendex, calling the firm "a disgruntled,
uninformed risk-arbitrager." As for any link with between
Otis and "any entities with which Lionel does business,"
Lionel told Trendex it knows of none, adding that it is
cooperating with a Securities and Exchange Commission
investigation of the Otis stock purchase.
   Trendex, however, has provided Lionel with stock-trade
records showing that Mr. Marden provided the capital for
Otis. The investment firm said Lionel has agreed to
reconsider its requests at a future board meeting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Taiwan Market Posts Its Biggest Percentage Drop
   For One Day; Tokyo and London Shares Decline
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Taiwan shares continued their downward spiral Friday,
driving the market to a 13-month low.
   In Tokyo, stocks fell in slow afternoon trading Friday,
while London shares were mostly lower in active trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Taiwan's weighted index, which fell 131.97 points
Thursday, tumbled an additional 510.21 points, or 6.44%,
Friday, to finish at 7416.96, its lowest level since April
1989. The drop marked the largest single-day loss in
percentage terms on the exchange. On Wednesday, the index
plunged 510.41 points.
   Trading volume including stocks and mutual funds totaled
about 997.9 million shares valued at 72.61 billion New Taiwan
dollars (US$2.66 billion), compared with Thursday's 1.3
billion shares valued at NT$98.62 billion. Among 196 losers,
177 stocks dropped to their 7% limits. Only two issues
managed gains.
   Traders said worries over a demonstration planned for
Sunday hampered buying interest. Opposition and students did
march in Taipei Sunday against the nomination of Defense
Ministry Hau Pei-tsun as the new premier.
   "Political concerns dominate the trend because no one
knows what will happen," said Frank Yeh, assistant manager of
Core Pacific Securities Co. He said the trend will become
more clear after Sunday.
   The market hit a record high at 12495.34 on Feb. 10 and
has plunged nearly 41%, or 5078 points, since.
   Concerns over capital outflow was a major factor adverse
to the market. The market blamed growing capital outflow upon
recent decreasing turnover.
   Central Bank Gov. Samuel Shieh said Thursday that Taiwan's
capital outflow has hit about US$6 billion this year. It was
compared with US$8.25 billion in 1989.
   Observers in general say Taiwan share prices will go
lower. There was no trading Saturday because of a typhoon.
   In Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was down
47.88 points at 32013.72 Friday. The index gained 93.98
points Thursday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the Nikkei index was
down 184.01 points to 31829.71.
   The Nikkei index fell 190 points in midafternoon trading
Friday on arbitrage selling before it bounced back on
arbitrage buying, traders said.
   Volume on the first section was estimated at 480 million
shares, down from 591 million shares Thursday. Declining
issues outnumbered advancers 654 to 308; 164 issues were
unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section, which fell 4.54 points Thursday, was down
10.97 points, or 0.46%, at 2388.26.
   The second-section index, which gained 6.82 points
Thursday, was up 6.06 points, or 0.16%, to close at 3868.26.
   Volume in the second section was estimated at 17 million
shares, up from 16 million shares Thursday.
   The market hardly responded to news of fast-paced growth
in Japan's money supply in April. The Bank of Japan said the
nation's money supply grew at an average 13.2% pace in April,
the highest level in more than 13 years. The report didn't
immediately spawn expectations of a tighter monetary policy,
observers said, because the Bank of Japan attributed the high
growth to an extraordinarily high amount of redemptions of
postal savings-system deposits.
   News that wholesale prices rose 2.7% in April from a year
earlier likewise didn't move prices because there is little
concern at the moment over the possibility of a discount-rate
increase, said Fumihiko Ishii, manager of investment research
at Nomura Securities. Wholesale prices increased 0.6% from
March.
   Participants predicted healthy trading next week,
encouraged by a widespread perception that the yen is
gradually stabilizing against the U.S. dollar around the
152-yen level.
   Expectations for a technical rebound are helping stimulate
buying, traders said. Investors hunted for issues whose
recoveries haven't caught up with the pace of the Nikkei,
which has achieved a one-third recovery from its low of 28002
posted on April 2, compared with its all-time high of 38915
posted Dec. 29.
   Friday's winners included a broad range of
consumer-electronics and parts makers. Sharp was at 1,760 yen
($11.57) a share, up 10. Anritsu gained 50, to 2720.
   Sumitomo Electric Industries, which has developed a new
type of ceramic coil that becomes superconductive at high
temperatures, advanced 30, to 1580.
   Pharmaceuticals were bought broadly.
   Shionogi gained 20, to 1540, while Mochida advanced 130,
to 3990.
   The London market consolidated from Thursday's impressive
rally which gave the key Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100
index its sharpest daily gain in more than two years. The
100-share index fell 15.3 points, to 2269.1, a touch above
its low on the day of 2268.5 and far below its intraday high
of 2321.4, reached after the start of official trading.
   The 30-share index ended down 2.4 points at 1793.3. Volume
was a healthy 594.8 million shares, down from 645.4 million
the previous day.
   In the futures market, the June FT-SE 100 index contract
finished at 2295.0, down from 2329.0 Thursday. "Everyone said
it would be a day of consolidation, and that's what
happened," said senior dealer Paul Corbett of Panmure Gordon
Ltd. brokerage house in London.
   Although the FT-SE 100 started the session well ahead on
strong stock-index futures contracts and firmness in the
underlying shares, profit-taking and a retreat of
institutional investors trimmed share prices, dealers said.
   In addition, a weak opening on Wall Street, which has
recently had greater influence than usual on London's
performance, helped shave Thursday's gains.
   Most traders agreed that cash-laden institutional
investors would make a return to the market sometime next
week after prices dropped to what they considered
satisfactory buying levels.
   Thursday's rally was largely driven by rumors that the
pound would enter the European Monetary System's
exchange-rate mechanism shortly. Although Chancellor of the
Exchequer John Major said Thursday that entry was months away
and that lower inflation is a precondition, dealers said
investors took heart at what they felt was a further
indication of the government's intent to fully join the EMS.
   Most traders were optimistic about the market's short-term
potential, anticipating a drifting in prices for several days
and then another rally, although not as significant as
Thursday's 63.3-point surge.
   Among blue-chip stocks, Great Universal Stores dropped 28
pence to 954 pence ($16.15) a share following a 24 pence rise
a day ago. Trafalgar House fell 15, to 305, after a 15 pence
gain Thursday, and Rank Organisation shed 10 to 789 following
a 22 pence jump a day earlier.
   Pharmaceuticals group Reckitt &amp; Colman posted the day's
biggest gains, advancing 11 to #12.17.
   In other market activity:
   Share prices closed higher in Milan, Stockholm and Zurich;
little changed in Frankfurt; mixed in Brussels, and lower in
Amsterdam and Paris. South African gold stocks closed lower.
   Share prices closed lower in Manila, Seoul and Sydney; and
higher in Hong Kong, Singapore and Wellington.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                             % This
                      May 17      May 16       Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. .............    326.6       325.9      + 0.5
 Britain ..........    677.0       658.2      - 6.1
 Canada ...........    386.7       384.0      -10.6

 France ...........    584.4       579.1      + 3.1
 Germany ..........    294.6       297.7      + 3.2
 Hong Kong ........   2181.1      2199.8      + 4.0
 Switzerland ......    214.5       212.9      - 2.8
 Australia ........    299.6       303.4      - 9.5
 World index ......    517.2       515.8      - 8.8
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, May 18, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/4% high, 8 3/16% low, 8 1/8% near
closing bid, 8 1/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.125% 30 to 149 days; 8.10% 150 to 179
days; 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.20%
30 days; 8.20% 60 days; 8.20% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.76% one month; 7.81% two
months; 7.85% three months; 8.02% six months; 8.27% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.20% one month; 8.30% three months;
8.45% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.10% 30 days; 8.08% 60 days; 8.08%
90 days; 8.07% 120 days; 8.06% 150 days; 8.02% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% two months; 8 7/16% - 8 5/16% three months; 8
1/2% - 8 3/8% four months; 8 9/16% - 8 7/ 16% five months; 8
9/16% - 8 7/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 7/16% three months; 8 9/16% six months; 8 13/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, May 14, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.67% 13 weeks; 7.68% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.36%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.30%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.85%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.85%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Wisconsin Power Debt,
   Preferred Stock Face
   Moody's Downgrade
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Moody's Investors Service Inc., citing a
recent weakening in Wisconsin Power &amp; Light Co.'s credit
ratios, said it placed the utility's long-term debt and
preferred stock of about $400 million under review for
potential downgrade.
   The rating concern said the utility's credit measures
"have come under pressure as a result of lower allowed
returns by regulators, federal tax law changes, and
increasing construction requirements."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moody's said its review will focus on "the extent to which
WP&amp;L's current and prospective measures of debt protection
are sufficient to support {Moody's} highest rating,
especially in view of growing business and operating risks in
the electric utility industry."
   Under review are the triple-A rating on the company's
first mortgage and secured pollution control revenue bonds,
and the double-A-1 rating on its preferred stock. Wisconsin
Power's Prime-1 rating on its commercial paper isn't under
review.
   A Wisconsin Power spokesman said Moody's announcement of a
review "wasn't unexpected," and added that the company, "
would expect, based on what Moody's release said today, that
we will see a down rating occur." He noted that much of
Moody's comments were concerned "with the state of the
industry," as opposed to the company in particular.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Elders IXL's Elliott
   Steps Down as Chief,
   Remains Chairman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   A.EXL WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   MELBOURNE -- Elders IXL Ltd. said John Elliott resigned as
chief executive but will remain chairman of the diversified
Australian conglomerate.
   Peter Bartels was named the new chief executive. Mr.
Bartels heads the brewing division of the company, which is
the world's fourth-largest brewer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Elders announced in March it plans to sell its natural
resources and financial-services divisions and spin off its
agribusiness operation to become a single-purpose brewer that
will be renamed Foster's Brewing Group Ltd.
   Mr. Elliott had said he planned to step down as chief
executive at some time as part of the corporate
restructuring.
   The decision is seen by analysts as helping distance
Elders from Harlin Holdings Pty. Ltd., a closely held concern
that owns 55% of Elders's shares. Mr. Elliott is a major
shareholder of Harlin.
   Harlin took on a heavy debt load last year when it
acquired its controlling stake in Elders. Stock-market
concerns about Harlin's financial health have depressed
Elders shares in recent weeks.
   A statement from Elders Friday said Alan McGregor, a
director of Elders for 10 years, becomes deputy chairman. Mr.
McGregor has broken his connections with Harlin, the
statement said.
   It said that Ken Jarrett and Geoffrey Lord will retire
from the Elders board later this year. When the changes are
completed early in the fiscal year starting July, the Elders
board will comprise four representatives from Harlin, four
independent directors, and the chief executive.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MANAGING
   ----
   By Amanda Bennett
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   The `Green' Bandwagon
   Brings Ethical Choices
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   MANAGERS at environmental groups wrestle with a new
problem: corporate donors.
   The question is: "How do you work with them without
getting co-opted?" asks Jack Murray, director of development
at the Natural Resources Defense Council in New York.
   In the past, corporate donors rarely sought out
environmental groups. But a growing "green" trend is pushing
companies to offer them everything from cash to
co-sponsorships.
   To guard itself, the Sierra Club in January adopted
guidelines that prohibit accepting gifts from such offenders
as "major polluters" or makers and vendors of environmentally
damaging products.
   The Natural Resources Defense Council recently sent back
an unsolicited $5,000 check from Procter &amp; Gamble Co., which
makes disposable diapers. "We aren't ruling out . . .
corporate contributions, nor are we condemning any company,"
says Paul Allen, an NRDC official. "But we don't want to take
contributions from people who are directly involved in
manufacturing -- particularly products that may potentially
have environmental consequences."
   (A Procter &amp; Gamble spokeswoman says: "We'll continue to
work with them and give them whatever support is appropriate
{but} we won't send them checks.")
   Not everyone is so standoffish. "I am a professional
fund-raiser," says Thomas Exton, a National Audubon Society
official. "When people say the money is tainted, I say
'tain't enough."
                                                                                                       

   Glass Ceiling Closes In
   At Business Schools
                                                                                                       

   THE RESIGNATION of Elizabeth Bailey as dean of Carnegie
Mellon University's business school, effective next month,
leaves only four female deans at accredited business schools,
and none at top-ranked schools. A few years ago, there were
as many as eight women deans at the 272 accredited schools,
says a spokesman at the American Assembly of Collegiate
Schools of Business.
   Dean Bailey, who declined to be interviewed, said through
a spokeswoman that women's issues weren't involved in her
resignation.
   Others, however, say women's issues can't help but be
involved. "Women business school deans are still an
endangered species," says Lynda Phillips-Madson, an associate
dean at Vanderbilt University's Owen School of Management.
"Regardless of the individual circumstances, I do see it as a
loss for women," she says, because the appointments are
critical for visibility.
   Eugene Rackley, a recruiter at Heidrick &amp; Struggles Inc.,
says the dean scarcity isn't for want of trying. "Every
search committee tries to go out of its way to generate as
many names {of women} as possible," he says, adding that the
pool of qualified candidates is "pretty small."
   Nonsense, retorts Anne Jardim, co-dean of Simmons
College's Graduate School of Management. "This is part of the
still-bigger problem of the situation of women in society."
   Other women cite school jitters. "Search committees just
don't want to take a chance on women," says Laurie Larwood,
business school dean at the State University of New York at
Albany. "They see it as a risk."
                                                                                                       

   When Group Leaders
   Aren't Group Members
                                                                                                       

   CAN AN OUTSIDER effectively lead a special-interest group?
   Yes, says Frank Stark, co-chairman of the Fund for Human
Dignity, a New York-based gay and lesbian group that just
appointed its first heterosexual executive director. "We were
looking for a manager," Mr. Stark says. Although nearly all
of the candidates were gay, the finalist, a former executive
with the National Conference of Christians and Jews, was "the
best person for the position."
   No, counters Mary Beth Caschetta, former coordinator of
the organization's crisis line, one of several staffers and
volunteers who resigned in protest. "A gay or lesbian person
can so much better understand, communicate and speak from the
heart about {gay} issues," she contends.
   Symbolism is crucial too, says Muriel H. Strassler, an
associate dean at Gallaudet University, a college for the
deaf, where student protests two years ago forced the
resignation of a hearing president in favor of a deaf one.
"For 125 years there had been no deaf person" in the top
spot, she says. "It was clearly discriminatory."
   Robert Brading, the new executive director at the gay
group, says he's confident he'll win support by doing his
job. "If the fund moves forward, the controversy will
lessen," he says.
   Still, James C. Newlan, Kentucky president of the National
Organization for Women, urges outsiders to be cautious. "You
are the one who is strange and different, not them," he says.
"You have to earn your acceptance."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends

   EMPLOYEES 'FESS UP to stealing: In a recent London House
Inc. survey, 43% of supermarket employees admitted some type
of theft of cash or property. The results, which were
anonymous, show "that people who steal perceive themselves as
average people in a dishonest world," the research firm says.
. . . Costly commercial space is shrinking executive offices,
says Orsini Design Associates, a New York interior design
firm. A typical office for an executive vice president once
was 15 by 20 feet. Today, it's more like 15 by 15. The
exception: chief executives and presidents. "They make up the
rules," says Susan Orsini, president.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   U.S. Moves to Help
   Critically Ill Get
   New AIDS Drugs
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Facing a protest by AIDS activists, the
Department of Health and Human Services moved a step closer
to carrying out its plans to accelerate the availability of
new drugs to critically ill AIDS patients.
   The agency said its proposed policy for so-called
parallel-track distribution of promising new drugs to people
with AIDS will appear in the Federal Register today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also today, AIDS activists plan to demonstrate at the
National Institutes of Health to publicize their charges that
the government is spending too little money on medical
research in general and on acquired immune deficiency
syndrome in particular.
   HHS officials first announced their intention to adopt a
parallel-track system last July. The policy will speed new
therapies prior to the completion of the extensive clinical
tests the government usually requires before drugs can come
to market. It will apply to AIDS patients who have no
therapeutic alternatives, who have an immediately
life-threatening disease and who can't participate in
clinical studies.
   AIDS activists and some medical researchers have argued
that it doesn't make sense to deny promising treatments to
desperately ill patients, even if the drugs haven't been
fully tested.
   The new policy will allow early distribution and the
simultaneous completion of clinical tests. "We believe we
have built sufficient safeguards into parallel track to
ensure that it neither compromises the drug approval and
clinical trials process nor delays the speedy delivery of
promising" drugs from the laboratory to the bedside,
explained James Mason, assistant secretary of HHS for health.
   Initially, the parallel-track policy will apply only to
people with AIDS, but the HHS said it will consider whether
it should expand the policy to cover promising new drugs for
other life-threatening diseases, such as cancer. The proposed
adoption of the parallel-track system is one example of how
people facing the prospect of death from AIDS have
successfully pressured the government to change its
traditional medical practices.
   The HHS set a July 20 deadline for public comment on the
proposed policy, which describes who is eligible for the
program and sets the criteria for selecting new drugs for
parallel-track distribution.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Team in Iowa Says
   Acne Ointment
   Lacks Side Effects
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6H
</SO>
<CO>
   JNJ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Iowa State University said its biochemists have developed
a new vitamin Aderived ointment for common acne that lacks
the side effects of Johnson &amp; Johnson's widely used Retin-A
ointment.
   An Ames, Iowa, dermatologist who is conducting a small
clinical trial said that acne patients using the Iowa State
ointment haven't exhibited any of the skin redness and
peeling that has occurred in many acne patients using
Retin-A. "I think it has a beneficial effect, although it's
not quite as good as Retin-A," the dermatologist, Richard
Lloyd, said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But, Dr. Lloyd said, the new ointment's lack of side
effects indicates it could be used in patients who can't
tolerate Retin-A, particularly patients of light skin
complexion and patients who are sunburned.
   Dr. Lloyd said he also is testing the new ointment's
effects on skin wrinkles but results won't be known for
several months. Retin-A gained an unexpected boost in 1988
when the first of a series of research reports indicated it
can remove wrinkles. This use, however, hasn't yet been
approved by the Food and Drug Administration.
   A spokeswoman for Ortho Pharmaceutical, the J&amp;J unit that
markets Retin-A, said researchers there had heard of the Iowa
State compound but hadn't seen any clinical trial results.
   The Iowa State University Research Foundation in Ames is
offering to license the new ointment to manufacturers, a
spokesman, Steven Price, said. Ortho has no licensing plans
at present, the company's spokeswoman said.
   The new compound is technically known as
retinoyl-beta-glucuronide, or RBG. Like Retin-A, it is a
derivative of vitamin A, which is also known as retinoic
acid. RBG is present naturally in blood and various body
tissues. It was first found in rat tissues in 1966 by a
University of Florida team of biochemists that included James
Allen Olson. In the early 1980s, after Mr. Olson had moved to
Iowa State, a colleague, Arun B. Barua, developed a method of
making RBG synthetically. A more efficient process for making
RBG was developed last year.
   Laboratory tests indicate RBG is less toxic than Retin-A,
the university said. RBG "actively stimulates the growth of
vitamin A-depleted animals and the development of normal
tissue cells but doesn't show the toxicity of many other
forms of vitamin A," Mr. Olson said.
   Dr. Lloyd, the Ames dermatologist, said that seven months
ago he began a clinical trial involving 20 acne patients,
comparing an RBG ointment with Retin-A. The trial was
supposed to be "double-blind," in which neither the patients
nor Dr. Lloyd knew which ointment each patient was using.
   However, Dr. Lloyd said, he has been able to guess which
ointment some patients are using since they developed the
skin redness and scaling characteristic of Retin-A. A
statistical analysis of the results is now being made to see
how well RBG compares with Retin-A in treating acne, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stelco Forms Venture
   With Mitsubishi Unit
   For Steel Coating Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   STE.A J.MIB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   HAMILTON, Ontario -- Stelco Inc. said it formed a joint
venture with Mitsubishi Corp.'s Canadian unit to build a 200
million Canadian dollar (US$170.2 million) steel coating
plant.
   Robert Milbourne, vice president of manufacturing at
Stelco's steel division said Mitsubishi would hold a 40%
equity interest in the operation, known as the Z-Line. Stelco
will hold the remaining 60% equity stake.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Milbourne said a "substantial portion" of the
project's cost will be financed through debt. He declined to
be more specific, or to say what portion of the debt would be
held by the two companies.
   Stelco is saddled with C$860 million in long-term debt;
the company said previously that it may have to rely on banks
to get it through its "temporary cash situation."
   Mr. Milbourne said Stelco's "investment will be
significantly limited" because of Mitsubishi's involvement.
   The Z-Line facility is already under construction; it is
expected to begin operation in December. The line will be the
first in Canada that can supply up to 72-inch wide galvanized
steel for use primarily by automotive companies.
   Mr. Milbourne said the project could face delays as a
result of the current construction workers' strike in
Ontario. The company also faces a possible strike with its
own workers this summer because its collective agreement with
10,000 workers expires July 31.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Is Seen Renewing Trade Status
   For China as a Most Favored Nation
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush is expected to notify
Congress this week that he is renewing China's
most-favored-nation trade status for a year, administration
officials said.
   The notification is likely to be accompanied by a
declaration that the trade status, which entitles China to
the same treatment as most American trading partners, could
be revoked if the U.S. remains unsatisfied with China's human
rights performance, the officials said. The precise
formulation of the administration's position is being
discussed privately with congressional leaders, the officials
added.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Renewal of China's most-favored-nation status is likely to
be controversial in Congress, where there has been strong
criticism both of China's crackdown on pro-democracy
demonstrators and of President Bush's low-key reaction to it.
   But it appears doubtful that there will be the two-thirds
majority of lawmakers required to block the move. Even some
members who have urged Mr. Bush to be tougher on China don't
object to continuing most-favored nation trade status, both
because U.S. companies have been campaigning intensely in
favor of extending the trade status and because a decision to
rescind it might harm the Hong Kong economy.
   Mr. Bush is legally required to decide before June 3
whether to renew China's most-favored nation status. Congress
could pass a resolution blocking the president's decision to
grant the status. But Mr. Bush then could veto the
resolution, and Congress would need a two-thirds majority in
both houses to override the veto.
   Officials said the administration has concluded that it
would be politically wiser to notify Congress this week of
the president's decision, before lawmakers leave town for a
Memorial Day recess. Administration aides are grateful that
some key lawmakers, such as Rep. Stephen Solarz (D., N.Y.),
chairman of the House Asian affairs subcommittee, have said
they wouldn't object to extension of most-favored status for
China despite their unhappiness with the administration's
overall strategy. But Rep. Solarz has said that in making an
extension, the U.S. should state that further renewals will
depend on China's making progress on human rights. The
administration doesn't want to offend such potential
supporters by announcing the president's decision while
lawmakers are away from Washington on a recess.
   The administration also may find it politically wiser to
dispose of the issue before the June 4 first anniversary of
China's bloody crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in
Beijing.
   Mr. Bush and his top aides have been having almost daily
discussions in recent weeks on how to handle the decision on
China's trade status, administration officials said. Mr. Bush
hinted at a news conference last week that he was inclined to
renew China's most-favored-nation status. Noting that even
some of the harshest critics of his China policy nevertheless
come down in favor of renewing China's trade status, Mr. Bush
noted: "I still am of the mind that having contact and
working in an area where there has been progress -- on the
economic side -- with China is important."
   Some critics are sure to complain that a continuation of
most-favored-nation status will send Beijing a harmful signal
regarding U.S. concern about human-rights abuses there. But
U.S. companies that import goods from China have been warning
that if most-favored-nation status is lifted, some import
duties would rocket.
   In addition, the conservative Heritage Foundation said in
a recent paper that about 65% of China's exports to the U.S.
first go to Hong Kong for packaging and shipping, meaning
that Hong Kong's economy would be hard-hit if China's trade
status were downgraded.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Wanderlust
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   As a native Iowan, I think I've read about enough gassy
remembrances from Michael (I know everybody) Gartner ("Keep
'Em in Iowa After They've Seen Moscow," op-ed page, April
26).
   Mr. Gartner may have started the trend toward leaving
years ago when he enrolled in a college in Minnesota.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Eric M. Davis
   Prior Lake, Minn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gander Mountain Sells
   Its Animal Care Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6I
</SO>
<CO>
   GNDR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WILMOT, Wisc. -- Gander Mountain Inc. said it sold its
Master Animal Care operations to closely held Humboldt
Industries Inc.
   The mail-order retailer of outdoor recreation products
didn't disclose terms of the sale of its line.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Master Animal Care sells pet supplies and accessories; an
official said the unit represented about 5% of Gander's
overall sales.
   Gander said the unit sale marks the final divestiture
under a previously announced company program to shed its
subsidiaries and focus on its "core" hunting, camping and
fishing supply sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Twit for Tat
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Today business targeting strategies
   Are pursued without many restraints,
   For while we target customers for our ads,
   They target us for their complaints.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   Doodling Dither
                                                                                                       

   Do laws to curb graffiti
   Do any good at all?
   Or do they just drive scribblers
   More surely to the wall?
   -- G. Sterling Leiby.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Harris Corp. Cites
   Improved Production
   With a New System
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6I
</SO>
<CO>
   HRS DEC BBN
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MELBOURNE, Fla. -- Harris Corp. says it has achieved
sharply higher yields in its semiconductor plants by using a
production control system developed with Digital Equipment
Corp. and a Bolt Beranek &amp; Newman Inc. unit.
   Manufacturing yield is a major problem in chip making,
where typical yields range from 99%, to as low as 35%, for
each wafer of silicon, depending on the complexity of the
chip. Harris said it has produced yield improvements of
between 17% to 50%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Digital, Maynard, Mass., and BBN, of Cambridge, Mass., are
in discussions with Harris to commercialize the jointly
developed software. Randy Burdick, director of manufacturing
systems at Harris, says that other chip makers have expressed
interest in the system, which he said could yield "huge
savings for the industry."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   TV: Top of the Session
   ----
   By Robert Goldberg
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Being a TV critic isn't all beer and popcorn. Each year,
as the television season draws to a close, comes a task so
harrowing, so cruel, so downright difficult that it fries
even the professional couch potato. We're talking about the
Top 10 list.
   Once again this year, I set out to select the best
recurring programs on television -- the 10 shows I'd watch
even if it weren't my job to watch TV. I'm sorry to report
that, once again, I failed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So here's my Top Seven list, the cream of the 1989-90
season, in no particular order:
                                                                                                       

   "Twin Peaks" -- Half soap opera, half murder mystery, with
a strange dose of Tibetan mysticism thrown in, film maker
David Lynch's and Mark Frost's creation is an instant cult
classic. Fog shrouds the trees, and menace shrouds the town
of Twin Peaks, Wash. If the log knows who killed Laura
Palmer, it's not talking, and when the dwarf talks, you have
to read the subtitles. Some people just don't get this
startlingly idiosyncratic vision, but with any luck, the real
"Twin Peaks" mystery will be answered soon, and the show will
be renewed for next season.
                                                                                                       

   "Murphy Brown" -- Consistently the funniest half-hour on
television. Candice Bergen has developed some real comic
timing, and with her strong supporting cast, the crusty
newshound Murphy Brown may well become the Mary Richards of
the '90s. Now all she needs is a secretary.
                                                                                                       

   "thirtysomething" -- Yup, they're still whining. But in
its third season, "thirtysomething" just keeps getting
better, tackling heavyweight issues like ovarian cancer with
delicacy and insight. And for mapping rich and subtle human
relationships in the workplace and at home (Michael's
conflicting feelings about his corporate rise), no program
has a more sensitive ear.
                                                                                                       

   "Wonder Years" -- Deftly blending nostalgia and irony,
this slice of white-bread suburbia is as witty and warm as
ever. Maybe it does veer into shmaltz from time to time, but
the episodes about the math teacher who forced young Kevin to
study were little gems. There's just one question: What
happens when Kevin gets to high school?
                                                                                                       

   "Nightline" -- A decade after its inception, this program
is still afflicting the comfortable. Although the 10th
anniversary show was an uninspired clip job (and confused
everyone over whether that hair is real or not), Ted Koppel
has clearly established himself as the pre-eminent TV
interviewer in America. Let's hope the rumors about Mr.
Koppel leaving to anchor another network's evening newscast
are only rumors, because that would be a silly waste of his
talents.
                                                                                                       

   "60 Minutes" -- The perennial on the list. Newcomers Steve
Kroft and Meredith Vieira haven't really started pulling
their weight yet, but I'm still tuned in every Sunday at 7:00
p.m. EDT.
                                                                                                       

   "L.A. Law" -- Even "Law" devotees have to admit the show
is getting a little predictable. This year, it sneaks onto
the list with powerful final episodes portraying two senior
partners locked in a boardroom battle, as well as balanced
treatment of complex topical issues like homosexual "outing"
and punishment for juveniles.
   And there's one honorary award for the network news
divisions' coverage of a most extraordinary news year, from
the San Francisco earthquake to the Berlin Wall.
   That's it for this season. There were several interesting
new shows that will, if the networks don't stifle them, be
strong contenders for the next list: "Equal Justice," the
ultra-gritty district attorney's "Hill Street Blues";
"Shannon's Deal," John Sayles's delightfully written drama
about a down-and-out attorney (with a wonderful Wynton
Marsalis score); "Doctor, Doctor," featuring Matt "Max
Headroom" Frewer, one manic comic talent; "Peter Jennings
Reporting," which coupled with the ABC/Time forum provides
in-depth coverage of issues like gun control and Cambodia;
"Unplugged," MTV's best argument for less is more, where
electric rockers from Don Henley to Lou Reed go acoustic;
"Alien Nation," science fiction with a twist, a message of
racial tolerance; and yes, even "In Living Color," which,
obnoxious as it is, still delivers TV's funniest skits.
   To realize what makes these shows worthwhile, all you have
to do is look at everything else that was on TV this past
year. "Sister Kate," "Chicken Soup," "Jury Duty: The Comedy."
   Here's a list of shows I never quite got around to
watching. Remember, these are real shows: "Living Dolls" --
four teen-age models with minds of their own; "Baywatch" --
life's a beach for these studly lifeguards; "Top of the Hill"
-- a surfing congressman tackles trouble; "Free Spirit" -- a
young witch/housekeeper in a suburban home; "Doogie Howser,
M.D." -- a 16-year-old doctor; "Peaceable Kingdom" -- the
managing director of a zoo cares for creatures great and
small.
   And what about the so-called hit of the year, "America's
Funniest Home Videos"? Seeing a kid whack his father in the
head with a bat is funny? Seeing a woman fall off a horse is
funny? If you chuckled over those, we've got some hilarious
footage of World War II for you.
   In TV-land, imagination continues to be in short supply.
Does every show have to be about a cute family? There's
"Major Dad" (a cute Marine family), "The Cosby Show" (a cute
black family), "Empty Nest" (a cute grown-up family), "Who's
the Boss?" (a cute non-family family), "The Hogan Family" (a
cute family with a part-time dad), "My Two Dads" (a cute
family with two dads), "Full House" (a cute family with three
dads), and "A Family for Joe" (a cute family with four
orphans, a homeless man and no dad).
   Bad ideas once become even worse ideas as comebacks. "The
Bradys"? Again? "Island Son"? A Hawaiian Kildare? Once a
heartthrob, Richard Chamberlain is now a cardiac infarction.
And how about Brent Musberger, the Mush Man? Just when we
thought we were finally done with him, ABC picks up his
contract. How can one guy who knows so little about sports,
and who is so aggressively dull, con two different networks
into hiring him for $2 million a year? Now there's an idea
for a new comedy show.
   Finally, this year, a mystery for the networks -- the
mystery of the vanishing viewers. In a few short months
recently, the audience numbers have plummeted yet again -- as
much as 8%.
   But there's no real mystery to this one. Just try putting
together a Top 10 list of your own.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   First Bank System Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FBS
</CO>
<LP>
   FIRST BANK SYSTEM Inc. (Minneapolis) -- J. Robert Hoffman,
formerly executive vice president, credit administration, at
this bank holding company's lead bank, First Bank, was named
executive vice president and chief credit officer, new posts
at the parent.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Tycoon Who Set
   Art-Price Records
   Often Gets His Way
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono and Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   J.DPM J.STB
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Ryoei Saito isn't easily fazed.
   The bluff, 74-year-old tycoon who stunned the world art
market last week by paying $160.6 million for two paintings
expects criticism for his extravagance. But the prospect
doesn't seem to bother him. "It's my policy to get what I
want, no matter how much money I have to pile up," he boasted
to Japan's Asahi Shimbun newspaper. "Both were wonderful
paintings, and once it's in an auction, somebody's going to
get it. I thought . . . that I'd be the one."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even paying $33 million more than he expected last Tuesday
to acquire Vincent van Gogh's haunting "Portrait of Dr.
Gachet" for a record $82.5 million didn't deter Mr. Saito
from spending another $78.1 million two days later for Pierre
Auguste Renoir's bright "Au Moulin de la Galette."
   But Mr. Saito's generosity last week with the New York
auction houses, where he was represented by Tokyo's Kobayashi
Gallery -- is a trait that has caused him trouble in the
past.
   Local magazines dub him "the wild man of Tokai," his
region of Japan, for the tyrannical way he's run the family
business, Daishowa Paper Manufacturing Co., Japan's
second-biggest paper concern.
   He packed the company's board with relatives. He installed
two of his brothers as company president, and fired one of
them. Four of his sons have worked at the company. He is
accused by critics of treating the company's money as his
own; even today, Daishowa officials say they don't know if
Mr. Saito, now chairman emeritus, used his own money or
company money to buy the paintings in New York. (Mr. Saito
tells reporters that he borrowed the money against his land
holdings.)
   So aggressive was Mr. Saito with Daishowa's money a decade
ago that he temporarily lost control of the company. After a
ferocious investment binge bloated the company's debt,
Daishowa was forced to cede some management control to its
biggest bank, Sumitomo Bank Ltd., in 1982. Mr. Saito even was
forced by the bank to sell off an earlier art collection and
other assets valued at more than $1 billion. After the
company's finances stabilized in 1983, Mr. Saito resumed
control -- and says he severed ties with Sumitomo. Sumitomo
officials were unavailable for comment over the weekend, but
the bank still holds a 4.1% stake in Daishowa.
   Mr. Saito has splashed his wealth around before. He is the
chief benefactor of the public art museum in Shizuoka, his
home prefecture. He has fed speculation that the museum will
house his newly acquired works, although he says the
facilities may need to be improved to house world-class art.
But officials at the museum, which has about 80 Western
paintings, most of them small works, as well as about 1,200
Japanese paintings and some sculptures, were cautious, saying
they hadn't yet been offered the paintings officially.
   Every year when he pays his national income taxes, Mr.
Saito breaks into the top 50 taxpayers in the land. He says
he's proud to be on the list so people will know how
successful he has been.
   With the acquisition of the world's two most-expensive
paintings, he knows he's flaunting his wealth in a sensitive
area. Foreign reaction has been sharp toward Japanese
purchases of Western cultural symbols.
   Nevertheless, Mr. Saito told the Associated Press, "I'm
not concerned, because this is all one big world."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Carlson Cos. Buys
   51% Stake in Forum,
   An Australian Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6D
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MELBOURNE, Australia -- Carlson Cos., a U.S. marketing
group, said it has bought 51% of Forum Organization Pty.
Ltd., an Australian marketing firm.
   The price of the acquisition wasn't disclosed, but the
companies said in a statement that Forum has annual revenue
of around 20 million Australian dollars.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   E.C. Gage, chief executive of Carlson, said the purchase
allows the company to "rapidly expand its global network of
full service marketing facilities to its many international
clients and throughout SouthEast Asia and Australia." Forum
has offices in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Perth.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Par Pharmaceutical Inc.:
   Second-Quarter Loss Posted,
   Reflecting Product Recalls
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6I
</SO>
<CO>
   PRX
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Par Pharmaceutical, Inc., Spring Valley, N.Y., reported a
$5.2 million net loss for the fiscal second quarter and said
it expects losses for the rest of the fiscal year.
   The net loss, equal to 47 cents a share, mainly reflects
product recalls by the Quad Pharmaceuticals subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales plummeted to $13.7 million from $30.1 million. A
year earlier, net income for the second quarter ended April
1, was $2.8 million, or 25 cents a share.
   Quad Pharmaceuticals has recalled 25 of its injectable
products because minor manufacturing changes were made
without properly following requirements of the Food and Drug
Administration. And in March, Quad adopted a voluntary
moratorium on shipments of all products subject to
FDA-approved abbreviated new drug applications.
   Par's business also has been adversely affected by a
moratorium last year on shipments of its oral solid products.
   For the six months ended March 31, the company had a net
loss of $5.6 million, or 51 cents a share, compared with
year-earlier net income of $5.5 million, or 49 cents a share.
Sales fell to $32.3 million from $58.1 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Sadly, Chinese Become
   Yesterday's Headlines
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   As I read the excerpt from Bette Bao Lord's book
"Legacies: A Chinese Mosaic" (editorial page, April 20), I
couldn't help wonder why the U.S. government -- and even
worse, the people of the U.S. -- continues to ignore the
oppression of human rights occurring in China. During the
Tiananmen Square incident, America rallied for the students
who craved a democratic society and protested the bloody
massacre that occurred afterward. It was obvious that as
journalists were expelled from the country and stories
stopped making the headlines, our concerns for the Chinese
people seemed to dwindle.
   We criticize countries for depriving their citizens
freedom of the press, stating they have a right to know what
is going on in the world. It is true that the nightly news
and newspaper media are a source of this information, but
should they have such an enormous control over such an
idealistic society as our own? One week it's China, the next
South Africa. And then the next week it's Lithuania. Let's
not lose sight of the fact that after the headlines are gone,
the problems still remain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Valerie Saye
   Senior
   Middle Tennessee State University
   Murfreesboro, Tenn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   We Need Indexation
   To Control Inflation
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   Lindley H. Clark Jr.'s April 19 editorial-page column,
"Indexation May Be Bad for Us," implies that tax indexing
somehow increases the chances of high inflation. That's
absurd.
   An unindexed tax system gives politicians an incentive to
continue or increase inflation. At current inflation rates, a
repeal of tax indexing would increase taxes by $140 billion
over the next four years. Does anyone seriously believe that
the hidden tax increases caused by repeal of indexing would
end inflation? It certainly didn't work in the 1970s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The politicians who create inflation would be the biggest
beneficiaries. After repealing indexing, politicians could
"cut" taxes by $100 billion over the four-year period, spend
the $40 billion difference on pet projects, and look like
heroes to their constituents.
   By taking the political profit out of inflation, tax
indexing helps control it. If there's an indexing culprit, it
is the indexation of congressional, high-ranking executive
branch and Federal Reserve officials' salaries. Consideration
should be given to rewarding the Federal Reserve officials
for low and steady rates of inflation.
   David Keating
   Executive Vice President
   National Taxpayers Union
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   World Currency: Easier Said Than Done
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Warren E. Weber's otherwise excellent editorial-page
article, "America's Own Fixed-Exchange Model," April 26, has
the defect that it fosters confusion between two
fundamentally different monetary systems: a unified currency
and a system of national currencies linked to one another at
pegged exchange rates.
   A unified currency may have different names in different
places: during the heyday of the gold standard, a pound in
Britain, a dollar in the U.S.; currently, in the example used
by Mr. Weber, an A dollar, a B dollar for dollars issued by
different Federal Reserve districts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key feature that defines a unified currency is that
there is either no (the gold standard) or at most one (the
U.S. today) monetary authority authorized to issue fiat money
-- that is the translation of Mr. Weber's requirement that
there be "an agreement among countries about the amount of
seigniorage and its distribution." Stated differently, for a
fiat currency to be unified, there must be only one central
bank, though it can have any number of branches -- the U.S.
Federal Reserve System has 12. That requirement is easy to
state; it is exceedingly difficult to achieve on a world
scale. We shall, I predict, wait a long time before the U.S.,
Britain, Germany, France and Japan are all willing to convert
their national central banks into branches of a world central
bank -- and, I may say, as a U.S. citizen, I would be
extremely opposed to doing so.
   In the absence of the effective elimination of national
central banks, any "agreement among countries about the
amount of seigniorage and its distribution" will degenerate
into a Bretton Woods-pegged exchange-rate system, which would
inevitably break down as Bretton Woods did.
   Incidentally, a unified currency does not require or
involve literally fixed exchange rates. Before the Federal
Reserve System was established, the U.S. had a unified
currency internally, yet there was a market in St. Louis, to
take one example, for "New York dollars." The only reason
such markets do not exist currently is because the Federal
Reserve (i.e., the taxpayer) pays the transactions costs for
regional transfers of funds. Similarly, during the
gold-standard period, the exchange rate between the British
pound and the U.S. dollar varied within a range, the limits
of which were set by the costs of transporting gold to or
from Britain.
   A unified currency has many desirable features, but is not
at present a feasible alternative on any world-wide basis. A
system of national currencies linked by pegged exchange rates
has many undesirable features, yet it is a far more feasible
option under current circumstances.
   Milton Friedman
   Senior Research Fellow
   Hoover Institution
   Stanford, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cerner to Buy Back
   First Chicago Capital's
   Stake in the Company
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7E
</SO>
<CO>
   CERN FNB
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- Cerner Corp. said it agreed in
principle to buy, for $11 each, 505,662 of its common shares
held by First Chicago Capital Corp. and its affiliates.
   The maker of clinical information systems said it expects
to complete the repurchase of the 13.8% stake in about two
weeks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The First Chicago Corp. unit will finance one-half of the
buy-back over an 18-month period, Cerner said; the remainder
will be financed through a combination of operating funds and
Cerner's existing credit lines.
   Cerner said it has had "a long and outstanding
relationship with our venture capital partner," but
"Considering our strengthened cash flows and the long-term
potential for Cerner's products in the market place, we
believe that the opportunity to repurchase our stock at $11
per share represents a sound investment for Cerner."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Campeau Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMPEAU Corp. (Toronto) -- Gerard Coulombe, a Montreal
lawyer, was appointed a director of this real estate and
retailing concern, to serve as a National Bank of Canada
representative, succeeding Claude Ducharme. Harry Macdonnell,
an independent director appointed in February, resigned, and
a successor on the 12-member board is expected to be named
soon. Montreal-based National Bank obtained two Campeau board
seats in January after it seized certain Campeau securities
from Campeau Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Robert
Campeau as the result of defaults on about 153 million
Canadian dollars (US$130.4 million) of personal loans he owed
the bank; it agreed to return the securities to him on May 31
if he obtains financing to repay C$40 million of the loans.
He would then have until Jan. 31, 1992, to pay another C$40
million due to National Bank, or the bank will take back part
of the securities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                       U.S TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $16.8 billion in three- and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                           Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   $10.8 billion in two-year notes
                                                                                                       

                            Thursday
                                                                                                       

   $8.5 billion of five-year notes.
                                                                                                       

                            CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                             Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   Alliance Global Environment Fund Inc. -- initial seven
million common shares, via Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette
Securities Corp.
                                                                                                       

                             Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   Curragh Resources Inc. -- initial nine million common
shares, via Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   Dreyfus Investment-Grade Municipal Fund Inc. -- initial
seven million common shares, via Prudential-Bache Capital
Funding.
                                                                                                       

                          One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Banc One Corp. -- 10 million common shares, via Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co.
   Builders Express Inc. -- initial one million units,
representing three Class A common shares and three redeemable
Class A common warrants, via D.H. Blair &amp; Co.
   Chiles Offshore Corp. -- initial five million common
shares, via Bear Stearns &amp; Co.
   Maxus Energy Corp. -- nine million common shares, via
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   Orbot Systems Ltd. -- three million ordinary shares, via
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
   Phibro Energy Oil Trust -- initial four million units of
beneficial interest, via Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Templeton Global Utilities Inc. -- initial 10 million
common shares, via Blunt Ellis &amp; Loewi Inc.
   Thai Capital Fund Inc. -- initial five million common
shares, via Merrill Lynch.
                                                                                                       

                          MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                           Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   Passaic Valley Sewerage Commissioners, N.J. -- $86.5
million of sewer system revenue bonds, Series C, via
competitive bid.
   Suffolk County, N.Y. -- $80.067 million of public
improvement revenue bonds, 1990 Series A and Series B, and
1990 12-month capital notes, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                     One Day In The Week
                                                                                                       

   Alabama Housing Finance Authority -- $55 million of
single-family mortgage revenue bonds (Ginnie Mae home
mortgage revenue bonds, Alternative Minimum Tax), via a
Goldman Sachs group.
   Connecticut -- $250 million of special tax obligation
transportation infrastructure bonds, via a Bear Stearns
group.
   Harris County Health Facilities Authority, Texas -- $65
million of special facility revenue bonds, MBIA-insured Texas
Medical Center Project, via a First Boston Corp. group.
   Louisiana Offshore Terminal Authority -- $102.15 million
of deep-water port refunding revenue bonds, Loop Inc.
Project, via a First Boston group.
   North Carolina Housing Finance Agency -- $75 million
ofsingle family mortgage revenue bonds, AMT/non-AMT, via a
Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette group.
   San Antonio Water Authority, Texas -- $65 million of water
revenue bonds, via a Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. Inc.
group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodore Wins
   Subcontract to Supply
   Computers to U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   CBU S
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WEST CHESTER, Pa. -- Commodore International Ltd. said it
achieved an early success in its attempt to enter the federal
government market for personal computers.
   Commodore has won a five-year subcontract with the
Treasury Department under which it expects to supply more
than 3,000 of its Amiga personal computers. The subcontract
was awarded as part of a $400 million contract won by Sears
Business Systems, a unit of Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The subcontract comes six months after Commodore began
trying to enter the market -- even though Lloyd Mahaffey,
vice president of marketing, said he hadn't expected to make
a sale for a year or more. Because of the long purchase
cycles on government contracts, Mr. Mahaffey said, many
companies take 18 months or even longer to make their first
sale.
   While it is obviously unclear whether additional contracts
will follow close on the heels of the first one, any success
would be welcomed by Commodore. The company's U.S. operations
have long been lackluster, and a new management team is
looking for improvement by focusing on the federal government
market, schools and corporate training departments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Zemex Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   ZMX
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   ZEMEX Corp. directors voted to omit the second-quarter
dividend. The New York-based company paid a 2% stock dividend
in March and a five-cent dividend in December. Previously,
the company had been paying 10 cents quarterly. Don Shanks,
vice president, secretary and treasurer, said the company
decided to omit the dividend because it is raising funds for
capital improvements. A ten-cent quarterly dividend would
cost the company $711,000 a year. Zemex mines industrial
minerals and tin, and has an iron-powder plant. For the first
quarter, the company had a net loss of $101,000, or six cents
a share, on revenue of $10.3 million. In New York Stock
Exchange composite trading Friday, Zemex closed at $7,
unchanged.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Rospatch Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS RPCH
</CO>
<LP>
   ROSPATCH Corp. (Grand Rapids, Mich.) -- Edwin Wachtel,
president of G.W. Investors Corp. and a general partner of
Alizac Partners, the second-largest holder of this furniture
maker with a 10.6% stake, was elected a director, filling a
vacancy on the six-member board. Kevin Coyne, son of Michael
F. Coyne, whose family owns about 9% of Rospatch, and Neil
Diver, an investment adviser to the Williametta K. Day Trust,
which owns about 7.5% of Rospatch's common, were invited to
consult with Rospatch's board and attend board and committee
meetings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Threat of Warming
   Just Makes Me Shiver
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   In his comments on the "global-warming" hoax, Paul A.
Gigot (Potomac Watch, April 20) states that ". . . everyone
agrees the earth has gotten slightly warmer in the last 100
years." It may be of interest to cite what Mark Twain had to
say in "Life on the Mississippi," published in 1883:
   "Natchez (Miss.) is the furthest point to the north at
which oranges ripen . . . or endure the winter without
shelter."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Several pages further along:
   ". . . for many miles above New Orleans . . . the graceful
and luxuriant palmetto . . . and the bright orange, were
everywhere to be seen. . . ."
   Our winters on the Gulf Coast are now so cold that
unprotected orange groves survive only in southernmost
Florida. Attempts to grow oranges south of New Orleans are
regularly frozen out every few years. Those few Louisiana
palmetto trees that had survived previous harsh winters were
frozen by the severe cold of December 1989.
   Perhaps Mark Twain was secretly employed by the
anti-environmentalists?
   Willard P. Leutze
   Lafayette, La.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southwest Savings Put in U.S. Control
   After Failing to Overcome Loan Losses
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS COFI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Southwest Savings Association, one of the first
thrifts to participate in the controversial Southwest Plan of
1988, was placed in government conservatorship Friday after
losing a struggle to overcome losses on troubled real estate
loans.
   The conservatorship, under which the federal Resolution
Trust Corp. will take over management of the thrift, was
imposed two years to the day after Southwest Savings entered
the Southwest Plan by acquiring four insolvent Texas thrifts
with $2 billion in non-cash assistance from the government.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Southwest Plan, before it expired in a storm of
criticism at the end of 1988, was the program launched by the
now-defunct Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. to stave
off further insurance-fund losses from failing Texas thrifts.
Under the plan, scores of Texas thrifts were merged into 15
institutions that received varying degrees of government
assistance, including notes and income-tax breaks, to keep
them afloat.
   For some of the new thrifts, such as First Gibraltar
Savings Association, the government assistance has led to
high profits for their owners and prompted calls in Congress
for a review and possible restructuring of the deals. But
Southwest Savings, which became Texas's third-largest thrift
with $5.4 billion in assets, wasn't destined to be among the
survivors, and a second government intervention was widely
expected.
   The bulk of the assistance Southwest had received, or $1.5
billion, was in income and capital guarantees to cover losses
on $2.6 billion in assets held by the four thrifts it
acquired. The government never came through with guarantees
to cover Southwest's own troubled loans and repossessed real
estate, which proved to be the thrift's undoing.
   By March 31 of this year, Southwest's tangible capital had
fallen to a negative $303.5 million, "with no prospect of
replenishment without federal assistance," the Office of
Thrift Supervision said Friday when it appointed the RTC as
Southwest's conservator.
   The RTC named Steve Deaton as managing conservator to
replace C. Todd Miller as the chief executive of the thrift,
which has $3.9 billion in deposits and 69 branches across
Texas.
   The Office of Thrift Supervision was careful to note the
accomplishments of Mr. Miller's management, pointing out that
operating costs had been reduced by almost $76 million during
the past two years and that the thrift had sold almost $404.6
million in repossessed real estate and other assets.
   While in conservatorship, Southwest will continue to be
owned by the Caroline Hunt Trust Estate and its
beneficiaries, according to an RTC spokesman. The Office of
Thrift Supervision will have to place Southwest Savings in
receivership before it is offered for sale or liquidated, the
RTC spokesman said.
   Southwest Savings has been another disappointing
investment for Caroline Hunt, heiress of oil man H.L. Hunt.
Through her Rosewood Corp. holding company, she has also
taken sizeable losses in real estate and in her holdings of
First Executive Corp., the Los Angeles-based insurance
holding company.
   In other RTC actions in Texas on Friday, the agency was
appointed receiver for the $68.7 million First Savings &amp; Loan
Association of Borger and for the $178.9 million First
Federal Savings and Loan Association of Conroe. New federal
mutual associations, to be managed by the RTC, were formed to
acquire certain assets and liabilities of each of the
institutions.
   The RTC on Friday also approved the sale of Cornerstone
Federal Savings Association of Houston to Great Southwest
Savings of Houston at an estimated cost to the RTC of $24.3
million. Great Southwest acquired all of Cornerstone's $83.8
million in deposits and just over half of its $82.4 million
in assets.
   In other Resolution Trust Corp. thrift sales and
liquidations:
   --  Broadview Federal Savings Bank, Cleveland, with $1.35
billion in assets, was sold to First Federal Savings Bank,
Cleveland, a unit of Charter One Financial Inc., Cleveland.
The transaction is expected to cost the RTC $188 million.
First Federal will pay a premium of $11.9 million to take
control of $1.4 billion in Broadview deposits. It will
purchase $930 million of Broadview's assets and have three
months to return nonperforming assets.
   --  Horizon Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association, Metarie,
La., with assets of $358.5 million and liabilities and
deposits of $500.4 million, was closed Friday. Depositors
will be paid their funds. The payoff is expected to begin
Monday.
   --  First Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association of Southeast
Missouri, in Cape Girardeau, Mo., with $270.1 million in
assets was sold to Cape County Bank of Cape Girardeau, Cape
Girardeau, Mo. That transaction is expected to cost the RTC
$68.3 million. Cape County Bank will pay a premium of $2.5
million for $322.9 million in deposits, and take control of
$251.2 million of assets with options to return the
nonperforming assets.
   --  Shawnee Federal Savings, with $221 million in assets,
Topeka, Kan., was sold to Bank IV, Topeka. The sale is
expected to cost the RTC roughly $18.2 million. Bank IV will
pay a $1.5 million premium for the $225 million in deposits,
and it will purchase $211.7 million of the assets, with
options to return the nonperforming ones.
   --  The 10 offices of Phenix Federal Savings &amp; Loan
Association, Phenix City, Ala., were sold to nine financial
institutions. Phenix Federal had total assets of $145.8
million and total liabilities of $177.4 million. The
acquirers will pay a premium of $2.7 million, and will also
purchase $5.5 million of the insolvent thrift's assets.
   On Friday, the Resolution Trust Corp. also seized
Jonesboro Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association, Jonesboro, La.,
which had $54.5 million in assets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Society Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SOCI
</CO>
<LP>
   SOCIETY Corp. (Cleveland) -- James W. Wert, 43 years old,
formerly executive vice president of this bank holding
company, was named a vice chairman, a new post, and a
director, expanding board membership to 25. Henry L. Meyer
III, 40, formerly vice chairman of Society's lead bank, was
named the bank's president and chief operating officer,
succeeding Robert W. Gillespie, 45, who remains chairman and
chief executive officer of both the parent and the bank; Mr.
Meyer also remains executive vice president of the parent.
Messrs. Wert, Meyer and Gillespie and Roger Noall, 55, a vice
chairman, form the senior executive management team.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Maxwell Communication Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS U.MXC
</CO>
<LP>
   MAXWELL COMMUNICATION Corp. (London) -- Craig E. Burr was
named president and chief operating officer of Standard Rate
&amp; Data Service, a division of this publishing and
communications company's New York-based Macmillan Inc. unit.
Mr. Burr will manage Standard Rate's 15 directories, which
are advertising references for the planning and buying of
media. Mr. Burr was vice president of marketing at Standard
Rate &amp; Data.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Budget Summits Are Nadir for Presidents
   ----
   By James C. Miller III
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   By succumbing to demands for a budget summit, President
Bush may have pulled the congressional leadership's fat out
of the fire. But his efforts are not likely to be rewarded.
   Recent experience and academic literature both demonstrate
that presidents will tend to restrain the growth of
government, while Congress will tend to expand it. Moreover,
Republicans will tend to dominate the presidency, while
Democrats will tend to dominate Congress. Both presidents and
Congress are perfectly willing to engage in deficit finance.
But when the deficit gets too large, presidents are likely to
deal with it by restraining the growth of spending, while
Congress is likely to prefer a tax increase. The evidence is
pretty clear that, of the two, restraining spending is more
effective in reducing the deficit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Had President Bush not agreed to a summit, he could have
held the line on taxes quite easily. Congress was unlikely to
pass a tax increase without his acquiescence, and even if it
did, the president could have vetoed the bill and been
sustained. Moreover, he would still have gained a substantial
deficit reduction. Under existing law --
Gramm-Rudman-Hollings -- the projected deficit must be no
more than $74 billion or else across-the-board cuts
(sequester) must be administered to reduce the projected
deficit to $64 billion. And, given congressional demands for
a "peace dividend," President Bush would likely have gotten a
higher number for defense through the sequester than Congress
is likely to give him in any budget deal.
   Budget summits are also bad for presidents because the
congressional leadership cannot deliver. The days when a
Lyndon Johnson and a Sam Rayburn could drop in on a Dwight
Eisenhower and cut a little deal are long past. Although
congressional leaders will negotiate in earnest, the deal
they strike with a president is merely a proposal to be put
before the entire Congress.
   As an illustration, at the conclusion of the 1987 budget
summit, literally as we were pushing our chairs back from the
table, Tom Foley (the group's chairman) looked across the
table at the White House team (Jim Baker, Howard Baker, and
me) and said, "Now, you've got to help us get this thing
passed]" This was after 20 arduous days and nights of
negotiating -- half the time that Noah spent on the ark]
While I do not question the integrity of congressional
leadership, there does seem something unwholesome about
congressional invitations to "deal." In commercial law, if
you negotiate to sell something that you cannot deliver, it
is known as fraud.
   A third problem, related to the second, is that a
president has no assurance that Congress will not "undo" the
deal at some future time. For example, the 1987 budget summit
concluded in a two-year agreement for fiscal 1988 and 1989.
According to the agreement, the administration agreed to a
tax increase in exchange for certain budget "cuts" relative
to the recently-released Gramm-Rudman-Hollings
current-services baseline. The claim of the group was that
over two years there would be "$75 billion in real deficit
reduction."
   Yet, what really happened? Under the agreement, receipts
were supposed to increase by $65.9 billion for 1988 and $81.8
billion for 1989. The actual increases were $54.9 billion and
$81.8 billion, respectively. So, Congress pretty much got its
increased revenue. But what about the spending cuts? Under
the agreement, outlays were supposed to rise $9.3 billion in
1988 and $43.8 billion in 1989. Instead, they went up a
whopping $60.3 billion and $78.8 billion, respectively. In
short, President Reagan got taken. So did the American
people. Under the agreement, the deficit was to be $93.1
billion in 1988 and $66.9 billion in 1989. Instead, the
deficits were $155.1 billion and $152.1 billion,
respectively.
   The "bottom line" is that in 1987, when President Reagan
held firm against invitations to "deal" and threatened to
veto any tax increase and any appropriations he deemed
excessive, the deficit fell a record $71.5 billion (to 149.7
billion from $221.2 billion). But when he went along with
demands for a budget summit, we got additional taxes,
spending growth, and no progress on the deficit.
   Of course, it is conceivable that President Bush will be
able to negotiate the kind of budget-process reforms (a
balanced-budget amendment, an item-reduction veto, etc.) that
would change incentives sufficiently to solve the basic
problem of deficit finance and excessive spending. Much more
likely, however, is that he will have to settle for promised
cuts in spending, increased taxes (that will materialize and
will be spent), and little progress on the deficit. Moreover,
in the future Congress will again find itself in a deadlock
and the leaders will call upon the president to bail them out
with another budget summit.
   ---
   Mr. Miller, chairman of Citizens for a Sound Economy, was
director of the Office of Management and Budget, 1985-89.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   ITT Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ITT
</CO>
<LP>
   ITT Corp. (New York) -- Ramani Ayer, 42 years old,
previously president of a unit of the company's Hartford
Insurance Group, was named executive vice president, North
American property-casualty operations, a new post at the
subsidiary, one of ITT's nine operating units. Donald R.
Frahm, Hartford's 56-year-old chairman and chief executive
officer, was named to the additional post of president,
property-casualty operations. Both moves are related to the
recent appointment of Dale R. Comey, formerly president and
chief operating officer, property-casualty operations, as
executive vice president of ITT.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Carter Holt to Buy
   Brierley's 50% Stake
   In Jointly Owned Firm
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6B
</SO>
<CO>
   C.CHH A.BRY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   AUCKLAND, New Zealand -- Carter Holt Harvey Ltd. said it
is buying Brierley Investments Ltd.'s 50% stake in their
joint-venture packaging concern Printpac-UEB for 110 million
New Zealand dollars (US$63.1 million).
   The New Zealand timber, building materials and packaging
concern said the purchase price will include NZ$30.5 million
and an issue of 30 million Carter Holt shares valued at
NZ$2.65 each.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The purchase, which would be retroactive to April 1, is
subject to approval by New Zealand's antitrust regulators,
Carter Holt said.
   Carter Holt and Brierley formed Printpac-UEB in 1989 as a
vehicle to buy UEB Packaging Ltd.
   Richard Carter, executive chairman of Carter Holt, said
that following the purchase of UEB Packaging last year, the
joint venture "is now a large, finely focussed and mature"
organization. "It is, therefore, now more appropriately
designed to operate under a single ownership structure," Mr.
Carter said.
   Bruce Hancox, chairman of Brierley Investments, said his
company is satisfied with its investment in Carter Holt
through the share issue.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Philadelphia Electric
   Appeals Rate Decision
   By Utility Commission
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   PE
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Philadelphia Electric Co. appealed an
April 19 decision by the Pennsylvania Public Utility
Commission that granted the utility only $242.2 million of
the $548.6 million rate increase it requested.
   Philadelphia Electric said that by denying the rate
request, the commission unconstitutionally denied
shareholders any return on their investment in Limerick No. 2
nuclear power station. In denying most of the rate increase,
the commission disallowed the company's request to recover
the costs of building and operating the plant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the appeal, filed with the Commonwealth Court of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia Electric alleged that the
commission approved various aspects of the project in the
mid-1980s, and then "suddenly reversed course" this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Many Banks
   Have Tightened
   Loan Standards
   ---
   Move Affects Smaller Firms;
   Fed Says Lenders Cited
   Economy and Portfolios
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- More than half the banks in a new Federal
Reserve survey said they have tightened their standards for
lending to medium-sized and small businesses out of concern
over the health of the economy and their own loan portfolios.
   Meanwhile, the Fed disclosed that widespread complaints
about a credit crunch contributed to its decision not to
raise interest rates when the central bank's policy-making
committee met in late March.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The survey found that banks have not only raised their
standards for accepting loan applications but "have recently
tightened the terms on loans they are currently willing to
make." Approximately 30% of the banks surveyed said that in
about the past six months, they had reduced the size of
credit lines to businesses with annual sales between $50
million and $250 million.
   Growth in business loans virtually ceased in 1989, the
survey said. The banks cited reduced demand for credit almost
as frequently as tighter credit terms and standards.
   "Banks with assets below $10 billion showed much more
inclination to tighten than did very large banks," the survey
said.
   The credit pinch is most severe in real estate lending.
About 80% of the banks responding said they have strengthened
their lending standards for commercial office buildings, many
"considerably," it said.
   But the tightening doesn't appear to be affecting consumer
credit nearly as much. Banks seem to be more willing to make
consumer installment loans, though there is little evidence
of continued growth in other consumer lending, such as home
equity loans, the survey said.
   Reports of a credit crunch have worried some economists,
who fear that the economy could slow severely, even topple
into a recession, if lending becomes too constrained. But it
has been difficult to tell just how serious the squeeze is.
   The Fed has been trying to combat the notion that there is
a credit crunch. But anecdotal evidence of a credit squeeze
figured in the Fed's Open Market Committee meeting of March
27, at which members voted 9-2 to hold interest rates steady
despite indications of a strengthening economy and mounting
inflationary pressures, according to a summary of the closed
meeting released Friday. Some members argued that "the
apparent tightening of credit standards," along with the
strength of the dollar and slowing growth in the money
supply, were braking the economy as much as a "modest"
tightening by the Fed.
   Despite reports of reduced construction, auto and home
equity credit, the Fed policy makers noted little evidence of
a credit crunch in aggregate financial statistics. Some
committee members said stricter credit standards were
probably "a desirable development" given slower economic
activity and the lending excesses of a few years ago. But a
number of members "expressed concern that significant further
restraint on credit availability, should it occur, could have
adverse consequences for the overall economy," the summary
said.
   Two committee members, Robert Boykin, president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, and Lee Hoskins, president of
the Cleveland Fed, dissented in favor of tighter policy
because of their concerns about inflation.
   The committee met again last week to set policy for the
next six weeks. It won't disclose last week's decisions until
early July, but Edward Boehne, president of the Philadelphia
Fed, said last week that the Fed hasn't changed monetary
policy since right before Christmas. Moreover, the Fed has
given no sign in financial markets that it has altered its
policy. Recent reports have indicated that both the economy
and inflationary pressure may be weaker than previously
thought.
   The summary also shows that some Fed policy makers are
still uneasy about the Treasury's willingness to intervene in
foreign exchange markets.
   Three committee members, Mr. Hoskins and Fed Govs. Wayne
Angell and John LaWare, dissented in what normally is a
routine vote to raise the limit on Fed holdings of foreign
currencies. Mr. Angell and Mr. Hoskins expressed concern that
intervention over the past year "had undermined the
credibility" of Fed monetary policy by contributing to
uncertainty over the central bank's priority toward battling
inflation. Mr. LaWare argued that too frequent intervention
makes the tactic less effective when it's needed to calm
disorderly markets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST SNE EUROP LATAM MDEST Y.ELK JAPAN FORGN C.RRP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
SHIPBUILDERS OF COMMERCIAL SHIPS (SHP)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
RAILROADS (RAI)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW TROUBLE FOR HONG KONG?
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   As the middleman for much of China's trade with the U.S.,
Hong Kong will be hit hard if Washington revokes China's
status as a most-favored nation.
   According to the Hong Kong government, about 70% of
China's exports to the U.S. -- a total of US$8.5 billion --
passed through the British colony in 1989 in the form of
re-exports; many of those re-exports were goods made by Hong
Kong companies in neighboring Guangdong province but then
finished or packed in the colony. A Western economist
estimates that the Hong Kong economy receives about 15% of
the value of the re-exports from such activities as
packaging, insurance and shipping.
   If Chinese goods entering the U.S. become subject to
sharply higher tariffs, government officials and businessmen
in Hong Kong predict that re-exports could be cut in half.
That would have an immediate impact on Hong Kong's trading
companies, shippers, insurers and banks involved in trade
financing.
   "There would also inevitably be serious . . . effects on
other sectors of the economy and, above all, on the general
level of confidence in Hong Kong," Sir Piers Jacobs, Hong
Kong's financial secretary, recently warned.
                                                                                                       

   SONY LOOKS AT EAST EUROPE
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Sony Corp. said it is considering setting up a
distribution network in East Europe to market its consumer
electronic products. Officials said Sony's headquarters in
Tokyo has been mapping out marketing plans in consultation
with its subsidiaries in Europe. They noted, however, that it
will be some time before the company decides whether to move
into East Europe.
                                                                                                       

   MORE TOURISTS FOR MEXICO
                                                                                                       

   More foreign tourists visited Mexico and spent more money
in the first three months of this year than during the same
period a year ago, the Tourism Department said. The 1.7
million tourists, 100,000 more than a year ago, spent an
average of $560 each, 6.2% more than the average last year,
the department said. Spending in the first three months
totaled nearly $1 billion, compared with $867 million during
the 1989 period.
                                                                                                       

   IRANIAN RESOURCES
                                                                                                       

   More than half the resources available to Iran's defense
industry will be directed to civilian purposes, Tehran radio
reported. The broadcast quoted an official of the defense
ministry's industrial section as saying that 60% of the
section's resources will be used in public projects. He said
this would include electronics, communications and computers.
The plan is aimed at rebuilding some of the big industrial
complexes devastated in the eight-year war with Iraq, the
radio quoted the official as saying.
                                                                                                       

   FINNISH CRUISE LINER
                                                                                                       

   Finnish shipbuilder Rauma Yards Oy has begun the
construction of a twin-hull passenger liner that will compete
with existing luxury cruise ships in the Caribbean.
   Diamond Cruises Ltd., which ordered the vessel at a cost
of over 500 million markka ($128 million), said cruises will
begin in 1992. The 18,400-ton ship has a passenger capacity
of 354 and will need a crew of 170. Newly founded Diamond
Cruises is 50% owned by non-Finnish investors, including the
U.S.'s Radisson Hotel Corp., which will market the cruises
and provide passenger services.
                                                                                                       

   PRIVATIZATION IN NORWAY
                                                                                                       

   The Norwegian government proposed selling an 80% stake of
the troubled state metals concern Norsk Jern Holding AS to
Norwegian private investors for 480 million kroner ($75
million). The metals concern Elkem AS agreed to buy 45% on
July 1, and a Norwegian private investors' group will buy 35%
later this year, Industry Minister Petter Thomassen said.
Payment will be due June 1, 1993. Mr. Thomassen said the
government also requested authority to sell the remaining 20%
to other buyers for 120 million kroner.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN ON THE ENVIRONMENT
                                                                                                       

   Japan outlined ways to combat global warming but stopped
short of advocating sweeping steps to curb its own
industries.
   Tokyo's annual environment white paper concentrated on the
ecological effects of what many people believe to be rising
world temperatures caused by massive emission of carbon
dioxide and other industrial pollutants. Japan should pass on
to developing countries its know-how on pollution control and
energy efficiency, and ensure its foreign aid goes to
ecologically sound projects, the document said.
   The paper said that factories should agree to uniform
vacations for workers and close down for the holidays and
that the country should consider introducing daylight-saving
time to conserve energy.
   Stock traders said demand for shares of companies linked
to energy conservation surged on the Tokyo Stock Exchange
Friday as a result of the report.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   A team from Unesco and the Egyptian Ministry of Culture
announced plans to build a wall around the pyramids and
Sphinx to help control visitors and limit encroachment by a
nearby village that caters to tourists. All modern buildings
within the wall would be razed. . . . France's new high-speed
train, the TGV, established a world speed record for trains
Friday, with a speed of 320 miles an hour. It was the third
time this month that TGV broke all previous records.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Chemex Says Chief
   Steps Down, Unveils
   Cost-Cutting Moves
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CHMX WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Chemex Pharmaceuticals Inc. said that its
president and chief operating officer has resigned and that
the company has decided to terminate one of two research
agreements it has with Yale University and move into smaller
offices in a bid to cut costs.
   The pharmaceutical concern said that Edward S. Neiss
resigned from his executive positions and as a director
effective May 1 to pursue other interests. A company
spokesman said the decision was Mr. Neiss's choice. The
company said that Mr. Neiss's contract with the company was
to expire in July.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chemex also said late Friday that it has notified Yale
that it will terminate a general research contract on Sept.
30, cutting its Yale research costs in half. The company
declined to disclose the amount of those research costs.
   Chemex also said it agreed in principle with its landlord
to move into a 5,000 square foot office from a 32,000 square
foot office space in the same building. It said it expects to
move in a few weeks.
   The company, which had a loss of $6.6 million last year,
said that it has an agreement for short-term debt financing
secured by certain company assets, but it declined to
disclose the amount or provide details of the agreement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   In R&amp;D, the Next Best Thing to a Gut Feeling
   ----
   By Amal Kumar Naj
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   MRK USW
</CO>
<LP>
   The tendency of Japanese companies to take advantage of
innovations devised in the U.S. is almost automatically
attributed to Japan's lower capital costs and its supportive
government-industry alliances. But it's often overlooked that
from the very start U.S. corporations put their emerging
technologies at an enormous disadvantage because of the
techniques they use to evaluate payoffs. The rigid equations
and models currently used unfortunately have replaced the
instinct and intuition that once guided U.S entrepreneurs.
   The fundamental test used in most U.S. companies is: Does
the return exceed the cost of capital over the life of the
project? To find the answer companies subject the project to
a variety of discounted-cash flow measures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dozens of assumptions go into this methodological
overkill. Many of the assumptions aren't reliable. Some are
tenuous at best. And if it's a long-term project that would
take, say, 10 years to commercialize (five years being the
outer limits of American corporations' horizon), the distant
estimates are considered highly speculative and are heavily
discounted. Even the "terminal value," the value of the plant
and other assets upon commercialization, is assumed to be
zero. When all is said and done, the payoff estimates
produced by the quantitative analyses are usually too low.
They stand little chance of beating that ultimate yardstick
--  the cost of capital. Nine out of 10 projects, on average,
fail the test.
   Perhaps the most fundamental problem with the current
techniques is that they fail to take into account the
consequences of not pursuing a technology. An auto maker may
give up on ceramic engines, because technically they seem
unfeasible. But a rival who makes prosaic ceramic parts with
the aim of one day using the knowledge to build a ceramic
engine -- as the Japanese are doing -- can quickly change the
competitive balance.
   How to get American companies to act on their intuition
again? There is a new technique that will go a long way
toward that. It deserves wide attention, for it comes closest
to simulating the old-fashioned gut feeling.
   Designed after well-developed stock-options theories, the
technique works something like this: Suppose there are two
emerging technologies, X and Y, that have some bearing on the
company's main business. The X may involve a well-understood
technology and a market. The Y may involve a wide range of
possible outcomes and new markets but with, say, 40% chance
of technical failure. The benefits of X are easily
quantifiable, and hence salable to top management for
funding. The Y is unsalable because it's unquantifiable, even
though it seems more promising.
   Instead of ignoring Y, the company commits small amounts
to develop the technology, in effect taking a "call option"
on the underlying technology. The option allows R&amp;D people to
explore its technical possibilities, market opportunities,
development costs and competitors' strategies. If these don't
become clear within the time period of the option, the option
is allowed to "expire."
   The loss is limited to the small initial funding (the
value of the R&amp;D option), just as in the stock option. "The
important thing to realize is that the initial expenditures
are not directed so much as an investment as they are toward
creating an option," says William Hamilton of the University
of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, who has co-authored a paper
on options valuations of R&amp;D with Graham Mitchell, director
of planning at GTE Laboratories in Waltham, Mass.
   R&amp;D options, fundamentally, help identify the unapparent
outcomes that may be the most important reasons for
undertaking the investment. Consider:
   -- In 1984, W.R. Grace decided to invest in a new
technology for catalytic converters for the automobile
aftermarket. The discounted-cash-flow analysis -- which used
a generous "terminal" value -- showed that it was an
"attractive" project. What looked like a sure-fire technology
now can't compete on price. "We didn't accurately predict the
price-performance requirement we needed in the aftermarket,"
says Peter Boer, chief technical officer.
   Grace would have dropped the project, except that other
opportunities for that technology intervened. The recent
clean-air legislation has created applications in
cogeneration plants, in planes to reduce ozone emissions, and
in utilities to control emissions. Suppose the automotive
catalyst technology had been given a thumbs-down by the
quantitative techniques, but the other downstream markets
loomed on the horizon. Could Grace have overturned the
negative signal and invested in the automotive catalyst
anyway? "I don't think I would have been able to communicate
that to the finance people," says Mr. Boer.
   -- In the early 1980s, General Electric initially ignored
the emerging magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technology for
medical diagnosis. The MRI market was unclear. And most
important, it would have cannibalized the market for GE's
existing CT diagnostic machine, which uses X-rays. GE
overruled the directive of the discounted-cash-flow
technique, as it realized that if it didn't cannibalize the
CT market, someone else was going to. Walter Robb, director
of GE's R&amp;D, says he doesn't have much use for quantitative
techniques now. "The challenge is to find 30 projects a year
that will pay off not by NPV (net present value) but by the
seat of our pants," he says.
   -- It's the downstream rewards that are allowing the
pharmaceutical company Merck &amp; Co. to plan extensive
automation. When it considered the idea first for a drug
packaging and distribution plant, the labor savings didn't
justify the investment. Moreover, with no prior experience
with robots, Merck also wasn't certain about the technical
success.
   "It was a tricky thing to convince the management. But
options valuation allowed engineers to articulate a whole
range of outcomes and their benefits," says Judy Lewent,
chief financial officer at Merck. The management agreed to
take an "option" on automating the plant, and results from
the pilot project since early this year have clarified the
potential future benefits to the point that the company is
now willing to expand automation to its diverse manufacturing
operations.
   -- U S West, a telecommunications concern in Denver, faced
with fast-changing technologies in its industry, also has
taken the options approach. It's pursuing technologies --
that it otherwise wouldn't be able to justify -- aimed at
making its cellular phones and paging devices more
user-friendly. "Our company doesn't have the maturity and
experience to act on gut feelings," says David Sena,
strategic technology planner of U S. West, a company spawned
in 1984 by the AT&amp;T breakup.
   The options technique needs refining (how to calculate the
value of an R&amp;D option is a subject of debate, for instance).
But it is the first clear mechanism for R&amp;D people to
communicate with their finance men.
   ---
   Mr. Naj covers technology from New York for the Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Mortgage Investments Plus Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   MIP
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS PLUS Inc. reduced its quarterly
dividend 50% to 10 cents a share from 20 cents, payable July
2 to stock of record June 1. The Newport Beach, Calif., real
estate trust, with assets concentrated in California
commercial real estate, said it cut the dividend because
Mortgage Investments' "environment has changed considerably
over the past several months." Funds resulting from the lower
dividend and from a cost-cutting program will be used to
reduce borrowings and strengthen the balance sheet, the
company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medicine:
   Breast Cancer Treatment Sparks Debate
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   BMY TIC
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Like a growing number of U.S. women with breast cancer,
Mary Lupro is afraid she'll never receive a controversial new
treatment.
   Conventional chemotherapy seems to have arrested her
cancer, says the mother of two in Hanover, Pa. But before the
treatments, the cancer had spread to the lymph nodes in her
neck, a sign that it will probably recur in a deadlier,
metastatic form within a few years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mrs. Lupro, 38 years old, believes a new treatment,
involving an "autologous bone marrow transplant," or ABMT,
could kill lingering tumor cells and buy her a lot of time.
But her health insurer, Travelers Corp., says the procedure
is still experimental, hence not covered. Without an
insurer's promise to pay, hospitals won't begin the costly
treatment, which employs a dangerous, high-dose blast of
conventional anti-cancer drugs.
   "I'm not as mad as my husband," says Mrs. Lupro, who says
she may sue Travelers to get an ABMT. "It's harder on him." A
Travelers spokeswoman says the Lupro case is "being reviewed
with an outside oncologist."
   The Lupros are caught up in one of the nation's fiercest
health-care debates. Preliminary studies on ABMT for breast
cancer indicate it may work better than conventional
alternatives for some women. A recent report in Tokyo showed
that about one-third of 258 metastatic breast-cancer patients
treated with ABMT after standard chemotherapy showed no signs
of the disease in follow-up periods of 12 to 42 months,
according to Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., which sponsored the
meeting.
   Karen Antman, a researcher at the Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute in Boston, told the meeting that the frequency of
tumor disappearance in certain patients is "much higher" than
with standard chemotherapy.
   But the treatment, which typically costs $100,000 or more,
is risky. About 9% of patients with various stages of breast
cancer have died from complications after the therapy,
according to Dr. Antman. Most doctors say that more data on
ABMT is needed to establish whether it's better than
alternative treatments.
   "I think the insurance companies are right. ABMT is very
experimental for breast cancer," says Subhash Gulati, chief
of the ABMT team at New York's Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center. Still, he adds, early results with it are
"encouraging," warranting further studies.
   Some doctors are less optimistic. Based on available data,
"I certainly can't conclude that {breast-cancer} patients are
better off with ABMT," says David Eddy, a Duke University
health-policy professor and a consultant to the Blue Cross &amp;
Blue Shield Association.
   The stakes in the ABMT debate are large. The rate of
breast-cancer incidence in the U.S. has risen sharply in the
past decade, though the mortality rate has held steady. This
year, about 150,000 women will be diagnosed with the disease.
The metastatic form will develop in about 30% of those women,
with most patients dying within two years.
   Doctors testing ABMT for breast cancer estimate that
one-fourth to one-half of metastatic cases may be good
candidates for the procedure -- if it's proved effective.
Physicians also are testing ABMT to treat high-risk patients
before metastasis, as well as people with testicular cancer
and melanoma. For certain other cancers, such as leukemia,
ABMT already is an accepted treatment covered by insurers.
   "It's too early to say this approach is right for public
consumption," says Jacob Bitran, a University of Chicago
cancer researcher testing ABMT. "But I've never seen
metastatic breast cancer patients respond as frequently" as
they do with ABMT, he says.
   Its promise appears greatest with breast-cancer patients
whose cancers respond to conventional chemotherapy, says
Nancy Davidson, a Johns Hopkins University researcher. A
higher dose of the same drugs is likely to wipe out even more
breast cancer cells in those patients, she says, raising the
chances of long-term remission. But at high doses, the drugs
cripple the immune system, leaving patients vulnerable to
fatal infections.
   To prevent that, doctors using ABMT extract marrow cells
from patients' pelvic bones through needles before giving
them anti-cancer drugs. The extracts contain immune-cell
precursors that, when reinfused after chemotherapy, "rescue"
patients' immune systems. Unlike conventional chemotherapy,
which requires shots over months or years, anti-cancer drugs
with ABMT are administered in intense doses over several
days.
   The procedure typically requires three or more weeks of
hospitalization for immune-system recovery. That's what makes
it so expensive. But the advent of "colony stimulating
factors" -- experimental drugs to speed immune-cell growth --
and other recent advances "are knocking four or five days
off" that period, says Chicago's Dr. Bitran. He estimates
that the procedure's costs now are "pretty close" to those of
a typical course of conventional chemotherapy for metastatic
breast cancer.
   The improvements also are narrowing patients' windows of
vulnerability to fatal infections, such as pneumonia. Deaths
from the treatment now occur in about 4% to 9% of patients
who are treated by doctors experienced with it, compared with
20% in one early study, says Andrew Dorr, a National Cancer
Institute researcher.
   Dr. Dorr adds that the NCI plans this fall to organize a
large clinical study of the new therapy and breast cancer.
But the study, which doctors agree is sorely needed, may
spark controversies of its own. One issue is whether insurers
should help pay for it.
   In any case, many women feel they don't have time to wait
for definitive studies. One is Pam Pirozzi, a 35-year-old
mother in Tracy's Landing, Md., diagnosed with breast cancer
last year. She sued her insurer, Blue Cross/Blue Shield of
Virginia, to force it to pay for an ABMT. Last month, a
federal judge in Alexandria, Va., ruled in her favor,
potentially setting an important precedent.
   But during her legal battle, says Mrs. Pirozzi, her cancer
spread to her cranium. Now she's undergoing conventional
therapy, hoping to follow it up with ABMT this fall.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stalled Revolution:
   Romanian Elections
   Portend More Strife,
   Even Before the Count
   ---
   Old Ceausescu Hand Iliescu
   Is Favored, but the Nation
   Is Backward and Divided
   ---
   A Very Cold Business Climate
   ----
   By Philip Revzin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BUCHAREST -- In the political euphoria that swept
Communists out of power across Eastern Europe last year,
Romania played its full part. Dictator Nicolae Ceausescu was
deposed and executed; closed borders were opened; and
repressed spirits soared.
   But not for long. Even as Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Poland
and East Germany have moved rapidly toward democracy,
Romania's revolution stalled. And five months after Mr.
Ceausescu's fall, no elected, legitimate non-Communist
government has assumed power.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yesterday's election, the first multiparty voting here in
53 years, still might not put such a government in power.
When results are officially declared later this week, the
winners are expected to be the interim president, Ion
Iliescu, and his National Salvation Front. He held an
overwhelming majority of the vote in exit polls last night.
But political opponents are alleging fraud. And militant
students are pledging to continue their protests against what
they say is a Communist government in disguise.
   Romania's revolution, bloodier than those of its
neighbors, has proved the least revolutionary in its effects,
and the most likely to provoke further violence. During the
recent campaign, opposition politicians were threatened and
beaten. The almost daily street demonstrations often turned
violent. The joy of December vanished quickly.
   To be free finally to speak about problems is not to solve
them. And Romanians have learned that the heritage of 45
years of eccentric, dictatorial rule is a nation without
modern technology, no longer able to produce food in
abundance, a nation lacking a management class and a
political structure that might be the basis for progress.
Optimists among Romanian politicians say it will take five
years to recover; pessimists say 10 years or longer.
   "We're talking about the difference between the Middle
Ages and the Space Age," says Mihai Coman, the new dean of
Romania's first journalism school.
   Of all the emerging Eastern European countries, the road
back will be the longest and most perilous here, the chances
of slipping again into dictatorship or chaos the highest. And
Romania is least likely to get support from the West.
   Eastern Europe is way behind the West. Romania is way
behind the rest of Eastern Europe. Poland already has an
elected non-Communist government and a tough, market-based
austerity program. East Germany is being taken in hand by the
strong West German economy. Czechoslovakia is matching
political reform with economic restructuring. Hungary, which
like East Germany has now held elections, began setting up
free market structures, including a stock market, years ago.
In Budapest, where youths wearing Levi's jeans made in
Hungary crowd a downtown McDonald's, dozens of joint-venture
contracts are being signed each week. Bucharest has no
Levi's, no Big Macs and, so far, no deals.
   Apart from countless visits by French government ministers
and welcome French humanitarian aid, the West has yet to
offer Romania much help. The U.S., for instance, doesn't
intend to grant trade concessions until a democratically
elected government is well-established.
   Heavily favored to win the election is the National
Salvation Front, a ragbag including former communists who
served under the late Mr. Ceausescu, army officers who forced
Mr. Ceausescu to flee and then killed him, and a few
sometimes -- disillusioned intellectuals. The main opposition
Liberal and Peasants parties, groups revived after 45 years
in the political wilderness, complain that they haven't had
the time or means to organize an effective campaign against
the Front, which among other things dominated television
coverage and supplied most of the election officials. The 70
or so smaller parties that have cropped up faced similar
problems. Not even a substantial Front victory at the polls
will silence those who believe the election was essentially
unfair.
   Romania's one advantage -- its lack of foreign debt --
will mean little until a stable political and economic
structure is in place to encourage foreign investment. Banks
aren't lending yet. "There's more difference today between
Romania and Hungary than there is between Hungary and West
Germany," says Gilles Courregelongue, France's consul general
in Bucharest. "Romania may have no debt, but it has no money,
either."
   Mr. Ceausescu's 24-year rule became more and more a matter
of megalomaniacal whim. Much of the $11 billion he borrowed
went to build huge oil refineries that operate at a third of
capacity. Most of what Romanians produced was exported to pay
off the debt, and there wasn't much to export. Each year Mr.
Ceausescu announced a record grain harvest, but shops had no
bread. The claims weren't true. The official figure for 1989
was 60 million metric tons; the reality was only 16.9
million. Shoe factories had plenty of local leather, but no
imported glue, and soles fell off in the rain. Mr. Ceausescu
boasted that Romania was a modern country, even as its
1930s-vintage telephone system operated just 38 lines to the
U.S.
   "The only thing we had in abundance," says economist
Daniel Daianu, "was lies."
   The provisional government hasn't improved things much.
The death penalty was abolished, then restored. The Communist
party was banned. Both these issues were to be decided by
referendums, but that idea was dropped. Workers were given
three Saturdays off per month, in addition to Sundays off.
When production lagged, it became just two free Saturdays.
The craziest old laws have been abolished, including the one
requiring all typewriters to be registered with the secret
police so as to discourage anonymous political dissent. But
the old regime's basic structure -- and the bureaucrats who
run it -- remain in place.
   Politics resumed with a bang after Mr. Ceausescu's
execution on Christmas Day. Demonstrations became a daily
ritual. And a sort of political catharsis took place on Feb.
18, when about 200 people demonstrating in front of the seat
of the provisional government (the former Foreign Ministry),
rushed past guards, ransacked offices, and briefly held
captive the deputy prime minister. Subsequent demonstrations
have also turned ugly.
   Serban Papacostea, director of the Nicolae Iorga Institute
of History, watches the demonstrations from a ringside seat,
in his office across the square from the Foreign Ministry. He
says demonstrators are mainly peaceful anti-Communists
outraged that much of the National Salvation Front
leadership, including the interim president, Mr. Iliescu, had
been Communist Party officials under Mr. Ceausescu. "We've
gotten rid of only a part of the carcass of this imported
Communist monster," Mr. Papacostea says. "We're now in a
revolutionary pause. The people are catching their breath."
   Getting rid of part of the carcass has, nevertheless, been
bracing for Romanians, even if the halting efforts of the
interim government suggest how far Romania has to go. History
student Ovioleu Cristeo recently went to the American Library
nextdoor to the U.S. Embassy to borrow Paul Kennedy's "Rise
and Fall of the Great Powers." In the past, security police
hanging around outside recorded names, threatening visitors,
so few dared to enter.
   Mr. Cristeo's professor, Stefan Andreescu, now freely
speaks English or French to visitors and on the telephone.
Under the Ceausescu regime, contacts with foreigners were
discouraged.
   A thriving flea market for handicrafts now coexists with
political orators, who have a lively soapbox in the
University subway station. The station had been closely
watched by security police. Competition from a new, private
taxi service has spurred state-owned taxis to respond to
radio calls for the first time, customers say. And there are
so many new newspapers -- more than two dozen at last count
-- that Romania is running out of newsprint.
   Charles Hocker, a Romanian of German extraction, sees
another sign of change. An architect, Mr. Hocker will spend
the next two hours standing in line to buy meat at a butcher
shop near the university. "There's a big difference from
before," he says. "Now, at the end of the {wait} there's
meat." And at a subsidized price of about 25 cents a pound,
pork and beef are affordable.
   Foreign businessmen are exhibiting the first signs of
interest in Romania, apparently a rich market because people
need so many things. The power breakfast has arrived.
Businessmen collect at the Intercontinental Hotel. By 7:30
a.m., the breakfast room is full, and men in suits are
shouting into both of the two telephones. "The answer is no,"
shouts a British voice. "When will the contract be ready?"
shouts a French voice.
   What are they all doing here? "I really don't know," says
Fred Aeberhard, a Swiss animal-feed salesman, who has been
making the lonely trip to Romania for 15 years. "People
should come here to make contacts, or renew old ones," he
says. "It's too early to do any real deals." That's largely
because the game is too new. It has just become legal for
individuals to start their own businesses. Also just passed:
a relatively liberal joint-venture law, allowing up to 100%
foreign ownership with government approval.
   Foreign companies might want to start with Romania's
computer industry, one of the most vivid examples of what's
wrong here, and how tough Romania's problems will be to fix.
   Romania's lone computer maker, ICE-Felix Data Processing
Systems, began with great fanfare in 1972, at a time when Mr.
Ceausescu admired France and its technology. The plant was
modeled on a French state-owned factory in Toulouse, and for
its first five years it manufactured, under license, midsized
computers and components. The factory turned out its first
all-Romanian computers in 1977, and was the leading computer
supplier to the East bloc for the next few years, a sort of
Romanian IBM.
   Then, in 1980, Mr. Ceausescu decided to start paying back
the debt he had built up. He also turned against computers,
deciding that they were going to give Romania a capitalist
taint. The company got no more money to import raw materials
or technology. Its foreign licenses expired. The plant was in
suspended animation for the next 10 years.
   Today, the factory is still churning out 1980s era,
second-generation computers. They are big, slow and
expensive. A minicomputer with 250,000 bytes of memory sells
for about $30,000, perhaps 30 times what a better machine
might cost in the West. The Romanian computers are assembled
by hand by hundreds of women who solder imported Russian
microchips onto thick printed circuit boards. They work in a
huge, dusty, badly lit room. A ginger-colored cat licks its
paws under one assembly desk. Low tech doesn't require
super-cleanliness. Technical manager Traian Mihu says he
needs $10 million just to begin to improve his computers. He
doesn't have it. People from U.S. and European computer
companies have stopped by, he says, but no agreements on
joint ventures or technology transfer have been signed.
   Mr. Mihu's woes stymie Constantin Donciu, chairman of the
computer graphics department at Bucharest Polytechnic. He is
on the cutting edge of Romanian high technology. Here, in the
computer graphics department, are trained the technicians who
will do competitive battle for Romania in world markets.
   The one-room department houses six clunky, 12-year-old
display terminals, whose metal casings have been removed to
keep them from overheating. They are connected to a
filing-cabinet-size, nine-year-old computer with 256,000
bytes of memory (less than most lap-tops) and two aging
printers, one of which often doesn't work. All the equipment
says "Made in Romania" on it. Textbooks date from 1976.
   "We're at least 15 years behind," says Mr. Donciu, patting
a terminal. "Since the revolution we can all speak frankly.
Frankly, this equipment is terrible."
   The only machines his department can get are from
ICE-Felix, when it can afford them; it can't pay $30,000 for
ICE's outmoded new minicomputer. Mr. Donciu gets no technical
journals and last saw a borrowed computer magazine a year
ago. The Polytechnic's main computer room houses a
third-generation French mainframe that uses punch cards.
Students wait six days for their programs to be run.
Upstairs, behind locked glass doors sits another relic, an
ancient IBM 1130 computer that sometimes works.
   Mr. Donciu looks through the doors. "It's like seeing an
exhibit in a museum," he says. "That's exactly where it
should be."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   U.S. Aviation Underwriters Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   U.S. AVIATION UNDERWRITERS Inc. -- John V. Brennan,
56-year-old president of this New York-based aviation
insurer, was named to the additional posts of chairman and
chief executive officer, succeeding Frank J. Lynch, 60, who
retired.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE FNM EUROP SNDT CANDA RYL
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                        CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   European Investment Bank -- $300 million issue of 9 1/8%
notes, due June 1, 2002, won in competitive bidding by a
group led by First Boston Corp., priced at 99.32 to yield
9.22%. The noncallable notes were priced at a spread of 50
basis points above the Treasury's 10-year note. The issue is
rated Triple-A by both Moody's Investors Service Inc. and by
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
   Federal Farm Credit Banks -- $150 million of notes, due
June 5, 1992, priced at par to float weekly at a spread of 50
basis points above the Treasury's three-month bill. The
noncallable notes will be reoffered at various prices and
will pay interest quarterly.
   SunGard Data Systems Inc. -- $75 million of its 8 1/4%
convertible subordinate debentures due 2015 priced at par was
declared effective. The total principal amount of debentures
being sold was increased to $75 million from the $60 million
previously reported. The debentures will be convertible into
common stock at a price of $26 per share. Alex. Brown &amp; Sons
Inc. and First Boston Corp. are the underwriters.
                                                                                                       

                      MORTGAGE-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $400 million of Remic
mortgage securities is being offered in nine classes by
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. The offering, Series 177, is
backed by Freddie Mac 9% securities, with a weighted average
remaining term to maturity of 29.5 years.
   Ryland Mortgage Securities Corp. -- $100 million of
mortgage participation certificates (Series 1990-3), priced
Thursday. The issue, underwritten by Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.,
will be collateralized by fixed-rate mortgage loans purchased
from RAC Mortgage Funding Corp. Series 1990-3 will be
collateralized by mortgage loans having an initial aggregate
principal balance of approximately $30 million with original
and remaining terms to maturity of 15 years or less, and
mortgage loans having an initial aggregate principal balance
of approximately $70 million with original and remaining
terms to maturity of greater than 15 years but not more than
30 years. It is anticipated that Series 1990-3 will be rated
triple-A by both Moody's and S&amp;P. Ryland Mortgage Securities
Corp. is a limited-purpose finance subsidiary of Ryland
Acceptance Corp., which is an indirect, wholly owned
subsidiary of The Ryland Group Inc.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
Remic mortgage securities, offered in 18 classes by Kidder
Peabody &amp; Co. The offering, Series 1990-68, is backed by
Fannie Mae 10% securities.
                                                                                                       

                           OTHER
                                                                                                       

   Province Of Newfoundland -- $150 million of 9 7/8%
debentures, due June 1, 2020, priced at 99.761 to yield
9.90%. The noncallable debentures were priced at a spread of
120 basis points above the Treasury's 30-year bellwether
bond. Rated Baa-1 by Moody's and single-A-minus by S&amp;P, the
issue will be sold through underwriters led by Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Credit Local de France (France) -- 125 million European
currency units of 10 3/8% Eurobonds due June 15, 1993, priced
at 101.30 to yield 10.41% less fees, via Paribas Capital
Markets. Fees 1 3/8.
   Eurofima (agency) -- 125 million European currency units
of 10 3/8% Eurobonds due June 13, 1995, priced at 101.65 to
yield 10.40% less fees, via Credit Lyonnais. Fees 1 3/4.
   Eksportfinans (Norway) -- 100 million European currency
units of 10 1/2% five-year Eurobonds due May 29, 1995, priced
at 101 7/8, via Merrill Lynch International.
   Swedish National Mortgage Corp. (SBAB) (Sweden) -- 10
billion yen of dual-currency Eurobonds due May 29, 1995,
priced at 101 7/8, via Mitsui Taiyo Kobe. Coupon of 8 1/2%c
payable in Australian dollars, at undisclosed exchange rate.
Redemption in yen.
   City of Copenhagen (Denmark) -- 100 million Swiss francs
of 7 1/2% public bonds due June 15, 2000, priced at 102 via
Union Bank of Switzerland. Call from June 15, 1995 at 102
1/2, declining by 1/2 point per year to par.
   Mitsubishi Trust Australia Ltd. (Japan parent) -- $50
million of bonds due June 14, 2000 priced at 102, via UBS
Phillips &amp; Drew. Interest for first three years 0.45 point
above the six-month London Interbank Offered Rate; thereafter
10% annually. Once-only call at par at end of third year.
Guaranteed by Mitsubishi Trust &amp; Banking Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Envoy to South Korea Tries to Heal
   Old Wounds With New Visit to Kwangju
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6F
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   KWANGJU, South Korea -- Anti-American protests in Korea
are a familiar sight and, as the strong protests over the
weekend proved, the problem isn't going away.
   All sorts of problems, including a weakening economy, the
unpopular creation of a consolidated conservative ruling
party and the continued division of Korea get blamed on the
U.S. "There is a tendency to associate the U.S. with anything
that goes wrong," says Donald C. Clarke, an American
professor teaching at Yonsei University in Seoul.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. Ambassador Donald Gregg has set out to change that.
In a move that is controversial among his advisers and among
Korean dissidents, Mr. Gregg plans to pay a new visit to the
wellspring of anti-American feeling, the city of Kwangju.
   "We need to get a dialogue started in Kwangju," he says.
He is expected to make the trip next month when the U.S.
re-opens the American Cultural Center -- a lightning rod of
anti-American protests that has been firebombed 27 times.
   Anti-American feelings run deep in Kwangju because 10
years ago this week Korean troops killed hundreds of
civilians here after a protest against a military coup. The
U.S. did nothing.
   Some Koreans believe U.S. troops stationed in Korea should
have intervened to block the Korean troops. Some say the U.S.
should have used its influence with Korean military leaders
to stop them from using such deadly force. They say the U.S.
shouldn't have supported the dictatorship here.
   People in Kwangju, from radicals to the most moderate,
want an apology from the U.S. "If the U.S. would just reveal
the truth, we would forgive very easily," says Kim Chung Ho,
an elderly teacher attending a massive rally on a downtown
Kwangju street Friday.
   The U.S. won't apologize. So the stalemate breeds more
anti-American feeling. "The explosion of Kwangju exposed the
U.S. tactics," says Kim Hong Myong, dean of academic affairs
at Chosun University in Kwangju, repeating the commonly held
belief that the U.S. conspired in various ways to take
advantage of Korea. "Now Koreans are extreme in seeing the
negative side, without seeing the positive things," he says.
   The anger is intense in Kwangju. Posters use a very
derogative term for American. Murals show naked prostitutes
shielded by the U.S. flag.
   Ambassador Gregg made his first attempt to repair the
damage in a visit to Kwangju last January. "The Kwangju
problem was left unaddressed," says Mr. Gregg. "People never
had an answer to their questions for 10 years and it was
still burning in their gut."
   His trip got lukewarm reviews, but almost all Koreans
praised him for being the first to make an attempt. "At least
it was an effort," says Archbishop Victorinus Youn. "It was a
sincere effort."
   Many people refused to meet with Mr. Gregg. The Archbishop
says he didn't meet with Mr. Gregg because of a scheduling
problem. Others refused on political grounds and then put
extreme pressure on anyone who wanted to meet him. Ahn Kil
Hyun, the editor of a college newspaper, met Mr. Gregg, was
impressed, but then kept the meeting secret from his
classmates. "At school there are a lot of extremists. I
didn't want the newspaper to be attacked."
   The first trip caused Mr. Gregg to change his own opinion.
He began by saying the U.S. had nothing to apologize for. But
after hours of talks with city leaders, dissidents and
students, he told himself, "We do have something to apologize
for. For being silent for 10 years and allowing this to
fester."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pic 'N' Save
   In Fight, Offers
   Itself for Sale
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   PICN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pic 'N' Save Corp., struggling to keep control of its
board out of the hands of an investor group led by David H.
Batchelder, put itself up for sale but hinted that it didn't
expect any bidders would emerge.
   The investor group, Girard Partners Limited Partnership,
holds a 6.6% stake in Pic 'N' Save and is soliciting consents
from shareholders to install five of its nominees on the
company's seven-member board. If the group succeeds, it has
said it would buy the company or auction it off to the
highest bidder.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pic 'N' Save said it would provide nonpublic information
beginning today to prospective buyers who sign a
confidentiality agreement with several standstill provisions.
Girard Partners would be forced to abandon for three years
its efforts to seize control of the board under one of the
provisions.
   Pic 'N' Save's action appears to be a gambit to placate
investors who are moving toward Girard's camp. Pic 'N' Save
wants "to remove any doubts in the minds of our
shareholders," that value will be "maximized" through the
company's recently-modified operating plan, Lewis B.
Merrifield III, chairman and chief executive officer, said.
   Pic 'N' Save, a Dominguez, Calif., retailer of close-out
merchandise, has a market value of about $493 million, based
on its current stock price. In national over-the-counter
trading Friday, the shares climbed 87.5 cents to $13.875. The
announcement, which came during the session, fueled trading
as more than 1.6 million shares changed hands.
   Because it's difficult to borrow money under current
credit-market conditions, "the board has serious
reservations. . . . as to whether a proposal reflecting the
inherent value of the company will be forthcoming," Mr.
Merrifield said.
   In an interview, he said that prospects for a bid were
somewhat better from a "strategic buyer," such as another
retailer, who might not need to borrow funds to make an
acquisition. In the past year, however, the company hasn't
received a single expression of interest from anyone, he
added.
   Pic 'N' Save said its financial advisers would begin
"actively" contacting a "lengthy" list of potential bidders
today. A deadline for offers was set for June 20, the day of
the annual shareholders' meeting.
   Some analysts doubted that the company could attract any
offers above its current market value. "The takeover premium
is already in the stock," said Sarah Stack, an analyst at
Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards Inc. in Los Angeles. On the
strength of Pic 'N' Save's business prospects, the shares
should be selling at under $10 a share, she thinks.
   Ms. Stack also has said that Pic 'N' Save investors are
unhappy with the company's financial performance and may be
receptive to Girard's proposals. Last week, a former Pic 'N'
Save executive who owns about 1.4 million shares, or 4% of
the stock, agreed to support Girard.
   In a letter mailed to shareholders late last week, Mr.
Merrifield disparaged qualifications of some of the Girard
nominees. Only one of more than a dozen takeover attempts
were completed by T. Boone Pickens while Mr. Batchelder was
part of his team, the letter stated. Of five public retail
companies run by Robert J. McNulty, only two reported an
operating profit for any period while Mr. McNulty was in
control, according to the letter.
   Mr. Batchelder didn't return telephone calls made to his
office in La Jolla, Calif. Mr. McNulty couldn't be reached
over the weekend.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pan Am Faces
   Hurdles in Bid
   To Sell Shuttle
   ----
   By Judith Valente
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   PN AWAL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pan Am Corp. put its Northeast shuttle up for sale just
weeks after its only competitor in that busy market, the
Trump Shuttle, went on the block. But it may be some time
before travelers see a change in the shuttle carriers.
   An airline or other buyer would face equal, though
somewhat different hurdles. The Department of Transportation
is likely to cast a watchful eye on the bidding. In the past,
the agency has stepped in to force competition in the shuttle
market. At the same time, transportation officials are wary
of the growing dominance of just a handful of carriers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The carriers with the resources to buy either shuttle,
including Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR Corp.'s American
Airlines unit and Atlanta-based Delta Air Lines, also happen
to be among the most dominant. It is questionable whether the
agency will allow these expansion-minded carriers to gobble
up the shuttle routes as well. New York-based Pan Am hopes to
get at least $250 million to $300 million for its shuttle,
which it bought for $65 million in 1986.
   A potential buyer probably wouldn't have clear financial
flying, either. The market is poor for financing buy-outs.
Even investors who manage to obtain financing could well
experience the same problems that have caused the New York
real estate developer and casino owner Donald Trump to want
to sell his shuttle just one year after he bought it for $365
million from Houston-based Texas Air Corp.'s Eastern Airlines
unit, now in bankruptcy-law proceedings.
   Though the shuttle earned about $20 million a year under
Eastern, Mr. Trump has been unable to generate enough cash
flow to pay his debt service and turn a profit.
   The shuttle market itself has some quirks. Traffic between
the New York, Washington, D.C., and Boston destinations isn't
expected to grow much beyond the annual estimated total of
four million passengers.
   It is an expensive operation. The aircraft require high
maintenance because of the frequent take-offs and landings
they endure. Both shuttle airlines have to maintain backup
crews and aircraft, because every passenger is guaranteed a
seat without a reservation and departures are hourly. When
flights are delayed, it isn't unusual for one aircraft to
take off full, while another takes off almost empty just a
few minutes later.
   Still, both shuttle carriers have valuable attributes, not
the least of which is the landing slots and gate space they
hold at New York's LaGuardia Airport and Washington's
National Airport. Landing rights at those two airports are
controlled. The only way new carriers can acquire those
rights and gate space is to buy it from carriers who have
them now.
   Though the shuttle market isn't expected to grow, it isn't
expected to decline, either. Business travelers use it the
most. Therefore, it isn't affected as much as the leisure
travel market in times of economic slowdowns. Shuttle fares
have remained immune to the price cutting that has affected
other routes. Analysts say service and fares aren't likely to
change if new owners take over either shuttle.
   Prospective buyers have come forward in the past. The Los
Angeles investor Marvin Davis is said to have considered
buying the Eastern shuttle, but never formally bid. America
West Airlines, Phoenix, Ariz., said it wanted to buy the
shuttle last year, but was unable to obtain financing. Mr.
Davis couldn't be reached to comment. An America West
spokesman said the airline remains interested in making
acquisitions.
   A former Pan Am chairman, C. Edward Acker, is said to be
interested in Pan Am's shuttle, which the airline took over
under his tenure. Mr. Acker couldn't be reached.
   Of the two shuttles, Mr. Trump's probably would fetch a
higher price. Besides the gates and landing slots, Mr. Trump
owns all of the aircraft that travel the routes. Pan Am
leases its shuttle aircraft. Also, Mr. Trump made several
improvements to the former Eastern aircraft, including
installing engine "hush kits" and fancier lavatories.
However, Mr. Trump might not be able to recoup his initial
investment because he took on heavy debt to finance the
shuttle purchase and make the improvements.
   Eastern began the first shuttle operation in 1961 and
operated it largely without competition until 1980, when New
York Air, a unit of Texas Air, entered the market. When Texas
Air acquired Eastern in 1986, the Transportation Department
insisted Texas Air sell one of the shuttles. Pan Am took over
the former New York Air service.
   Pan Am's decision to sell the shuttle, one of its few
profitable operations, reflects its worsening financial
condition. Pan is seeking a cash infusion from the sale to
continue operating its Pan American World Airways routes to
Europe and South America. The airline also needs cash to
continue making improvements in its service, aircraft
maintenance and security systems.
   The Pan American unit is down to $56 million in cash on
hand, according to the company's first-quarter financial
reports. Pan Am also said it is putting its internal German
route system up for sale.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, Pan
Am shares closed at $2.50, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Chrysler Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS C
</CO>
<LP>
   CHRYSLER Corp. -- The Highland Park, Mich., auto maker
said it reassigned three executives in its marketing
operations. The company named Lawrence W. Baker as general
manager of its Jeep/Eagle division. Previously, he was
general manager of Chrysler's Dodge car and truck division.
He will be succeeded at Dodge by Martin R. Levine who was the
Jeep/Eagle general manager. The company also named Ralph A.
Sarotte as director of multibrand marketing programs. He had
been director of consumer marketing programs in the company's
consumer affairs office. Before that, Mr. Sarotte was Eagle
general marketing manager.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Business Bookshelf:
   Populist Billionaire's Feet of Clay
   ----
   By Joseph B. White
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   H. Ross Perot, billionaire, Eagle Scout, folk hero and
bureaucracy basher is no St. Francis.
   Just ask his former colleagues at Electronic Data Systems
Corp., the data processing firm he founded then sold to
General Motors Corp. in one of the most celebrated and
tumultuous deals of the merger-happy 1980s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   EDS veterans know a different Mr. Perot from the one
celebrated in song and in mini-series. They know a sharp-eyed
Texas deal-maker who slipped GM a mickey in the agreement
that went with the auto maker's $700 million buy-out in 1986;
a ruthless enemy who uses the press and his political clout
to savage those who cross him; a media spin-master who
cultivates a homespun populist image one minute and the next
drops the full weight that comes with a multibillion dollar
fortune on two hapless Dallas police officers who caught his
daughter-in-law with a pistol in her car. (The officers let
her go, but according to the Dallas Times-Herald, Mr. Perot
"chewed them out" anyway.)
   It is this less-attractive side of Mr. Perot that Business
Week writer Todd Mason sets out to expose in his "Perot: An
Unauthorized Biography" (Dow Jones-Irwin, 316 pages, $19.95).
Mr. Mason, who covered Mr.Perot and EDS while he was Business
Week's Dallas bureau chief, doggedly pursues his thesis that
the man lionized for championing Vietnam prisoners of war,
defying Iranian hostage-takers and sassing GM Chairman Roger
B. Smith, has more than a little clay on his shoes.
   After Mr. Perot refused to cooperate, Mr. Mason turned to
aggrieved former colleagues, childhood acquaintances,
transcripts and newspaper clippings from Mr. Perot's 1989
court battle with EDS, and passages from hitherto-sealed
depositions by GM Chairman Smith and others to put together
his unflattering profile.
   Unfortunately, Mr. Mason's poorly edited book is as
imperfect as his subject. Chapter Four, for example, starts
out promising details of how Mr. Perot fought the Social
Security Administration in the late 1960s to block the
agency's effort to audit EDS's books. Social Security
officials were concerned that EDS was making an undeserved
killing processing state Medicare claims.
   But in the third paragraph, Mr. Mason lurches almost a
decade forward in time to late 1978 and Mr. Perot's exploits
in Iran. After two EDS executives were thrown in an Iranian
prison on trumped up charges, Mr. Perot whipped into shape a
group of employees to free them. Seven pages later, Mr.
Perot's ad-hoc commandos have beaten the odds to liberate
their colleagues and it's back to the Social Security
Administration.
   For those who press on, there is some reward when Mr.
Mason retells the story of Mr. Perot's bitter split with Mr.
Smith, and his subsequent decision to launch a new company,
Perot Systems Corp., to compete with his old friends at EDS.
Mr. Mason delivers a clear-eyed account of the events
surrounding GM's controversial $700 million buy-out of Mr.
Perot, aided by the abundance of testimony and documentation
that spilled out of the Virginia courtroom where Mr. Perot
and EDS locked horns last year. That dispute focused on Mr.
Perot's claim that GM's buy-out left him free to hire away
EDS personnel and woo EDS clients.
   Mr. Mason reports, for example, that Mr. Perot never put
the $700 million he got from GM in an escrow account to allow
the auto maker to change its decision, although he said he
had at the time. And he attacks the prescriptions Mr. Perot
offered for GM in a 1988 Fortune magazine article as "light
on specifics and long on leadership generalizations."
   Mr. Mason's got the right idea. Mr. Perot's powers of
persuasion, whether focused on a huge company or a single
reporter, are wondrous. But a less-gifted individual who
tried his simplistic problem-solving methods or his battering
ram approach to critics would quickly come a cropper.
   In fact, Mr. Perot himself is discovering that not
everyone cares for his mix of charm and bluster. After
details of his lucrative, no-bid contract to automate the
U.S. Postal Service got out in 1988, Mr. Perot got a painful
reminder that even billionaires sometimes have to play by the
rules. EDS tied up the deal in so many administrative
protests that Postmaster General Anthony Frank finally
abandoned it.
   The problem is that despite all the information Mr. Mason
has collected, his book doesn't add much sting to a tale that
has been told to death. All that's really new is that now
each of the two sides in the Perot-EDS feud has a book.
   Mr. Perot has the sympathetic portrait in "Irreconcilable
Differences," a gossipy 1989 account of his clash with Mr.
Smith written by former Wall Street Journal reporter Doron P.
Levin, now Detroit bureau chief for the New York Times. EDS
has Mr. Mason's dry indictment. Readers without an ax to
grind probably will prefer Mr. Levin's smoothly told yarn,
even though Mr. Mason is closer to the truth.
   ---
   Mr. White is a staff reporter in the Journal's Detroit
bureau. He covered the litigation between Mr. Perot and EDS
in 1988 and 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CAL GWF
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CALIFORNIA FEDERAL BANK FSB -- Moody's Investors Service
Inc. cut the ratings on senior debt and commercial paper of
the unit of CalFed Inc., based in Los Angeles. It also
lowered the rating for subordinated debt of CalFed. The
actions affect $875 million in long-term debt. Moody's
lowered the rating of CalFed's subordinated debt to Ba-3 from
Ba-2, and reduced CalFed's rating of senior debt to Ba-3 from
Ba-2 and commercial paper to Prime-3 from Prime-2. In a
statement, CalFed expressed disappointment over the action,
"especially in light of the improvements we have achieved in
the fundamentals of our banking business."
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GREAT WESTERN FINANCIAL Corp. (Los Angeles) -- Standard &amp;
Poor's Corp. reduced its rating on Great Western Financial's
senior debt to single-A-minus from single-A. The action
affects about $1 billion in debt, S&amp;P said. In a statement,
Great Western expressed disappointment over the rating cut
but said it was "pleased" that S&amp;P reaffirmed ratings on the
senior debt and commercial paper of a subsidiary, Great
Western Bank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Outdoor Ad Sellers Seek Return
   Of Packaged Goods to Billboards
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   GCI PG IPG SAA WNEWS OMCM J.TOS AEGSY F.EUC Z.NES
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Faced with the threat of continued spending cuts by
tobacco and alcohol advertisers, the outdoor ad business is
stepping up efforts to lure packaged-goods marketers and
other nontraditional billboard advertisers.
   Next month, Gannett Co.'s outdoor ad division will begin a
tour through many big ad agencies pitching the value of
outdoor advertising. The program, called "Creative
Challenge," will target agency executives with an elaborate
pitch concluding that outdoor is among the most powerful and
effective ad mediums.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It won't be an easy sell. Outdoor advertising has never
been the medium of choice among ad executives, in large part
because of a lack of data available tracking its
effectiveness. "Outdoor gets resistance from any advertiser
who's very precise about measurable impact," says Joanne M.
Davis, president of ad agency Omon. "And in media and
creative departments, it doesn't have the glamour that
television and magazines do."
   But outdoor ad executives argue they can't afford to sit
back and watch their major ad categories post further
declines. The Institute of Outdoor Advertising is expected to
report today that tobacco advertising dropped to just 12.5%
of total outdoor advertising in 1989, down from 25.3% in
1988. However, the 1989 figures were calculated with a new
accounting system, and the institute claims figures in
previous years were overstated.
   The decline, however, isn't doing much to appease tobacco
industry foes. They criticize the ubiquity of outdoor
cigarette ads in low income, inner-city neighborhoods, where
the industry's most dedicated consumers reside. And they
assert that tobacco companies will continue to heavily target
those smokers, for whom billboards remain the strongest form
of advertising.
   The institute says overall revenue for 1989 rose to $1.6
billion from $1.4 billion in 1988, buoyed in large part by
increases in the entertainment and publishing ad categories.
Strong gains were also made in healthcare and apparel.
   Gannett and many of its competitors, including Patrick
Media Group and Naegele Outdoor Advertising, remain
optimistic about signing advertisers in new categories such
as insurance and food products. The companies base much of
their pitch on the relative inexpensiveness of outdoor
advertising.
   Don Davidson, president and chief executive at Gannett
Outdoor, says that his firm has already been successful in
signing up a number of packaged-goods marketers, including
Procter &amp; Gamble, Clorox, Unilever and Colgate-Palmolive.
   `That's where we think we're going to enjoy significant
increases in business in the future," Mr. Davidson says.
   But it's not clear whether those companies are committed
to spend enough to offset the losses incurred at the top.
   Procter &amp; Gamble, for one, says it signed on with Gannett
to advertise only one product, Tide With Bleach. "A couple of
our other brands are looking at using it on a very limited
basis, but we haven't really used outdoor much at all," a
spokeswoman says. "It's not even a measurable percentage."
   P&amp;G says it isn't satisfied that outdoor advertising is as
effective as other media in selling its brands. "It's very
hard to measure the effectiveness of outdoor," the spokesman
says. "There's not a lot of good research" pointing to the
measurablity of outdoor advertising.
   Both Patrick Media and Gannett are well aware of that
sentiment. "It is our goal over the next couple of years to
develop some definitive effectiveness research that will make
them feel more comfortable," Mr. Davidson says.
   In its presentation to agencies, Gannett plans to push its
Conquest ad measurement system, which helps advertisers get a
better handle on the number of people who see particular
billboards. Gannett says the Conquest system allows it to
target billboards so they run in neighborhoods where brands
are especially hot sellers.
   "We could spend a lot of time wringing our hands or we
could try to understand" where to go from here, says Ron
Pancratz, vice president of sales and marketing at Patrick
Media. He says Patrick Media plans to take the message to
advertisers that a tobacco cutback represents an opening up
of some prime billboard space that was previously locked up.
"We see that as an opportunity," he says.
   Other major outdoor companies are looking to fill the void
by signing local advertisers. Randall Swaney, who is general
manager of Naegele Outdoor Advertising's Memphis market, says
he plans to go after car dealerships and banks, the big
clients before tobacco advertisers became the major spenders.
"This really means getting back to the basics and educating
these people as to why they should be buying outdoor," he
says.
   ---
   Lintas to Merge Agencies
                                                                                                       

   Lintas said it plans to merge its recently acquired Hawley
Martin Partners agency with its much larger Fahlgren &amp; Swink
ad unit.
   The merged shop will be headed by David Martin as
chairman. Mr. Martin, founder of Richmond's Martin Agency, is
currently chairman of Hawley Martin, of Richmond, Va. Lintas
said it will rename the shop Fahlgren Martin. Lintas is an
Interpublic Group agency.
   Smoot Fahlgren will continue in his role as chief
executive of the agency, based in Atlanta. Fahlgren &amp; Swink,
which has billings of $157 million, has clients including
Cincinnati Bell and Southern Co.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ACQUISITION: Young &amp; Rubicam acquired Arbeit &amp; Co., a New
York marketing consulting firm. Arbeit specializes in target
marketing and individual purchase decision-making. Terms
weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   AC&amp;R: Saatchi &amp; Saatchi's AC&amp;R Advertising named Karen
Amorelli president of AC&amp;R New York. In addition, Richard
Cohn and Robert Goolrick were named executive vice
presidents.
                                                                                                       

   COPY CATCH: Toshiba America Information Systems, Irvine,
Calif., awarded its Copier Products division account to Della
Femina, McNamee WCRS, Los Angeles. Toshiba America, a unit of
Japan's Toshiba Corp., said the account will bill $10 million
annually. The account had been handled at Ayer's Los Angeles
office.
                                                                                                       

   WHITNEY'S: Steuben Foods named Chiat/Day/Mojo, New York,
to create ads for its Whitney's yogurt. Billings are set at
$5 million.
                                                                                                       

   CARNATION: Carnation Co., Los Angeles, named
McCann-Erickson to handle its Buitoni brand and Dailey &amp;
Associates to create ads for a number of its Libby canned
foods and Contadina canned tomato products. Billings weren't
disclosed. Both agencies are Interpublic units.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   DAVID N. MARTIN agreed in principle to become chairman of
Fahlgren &amp; Swink, a Parkersburg, W. Va.-based ad unit of
Lintas:USA. He will continue as chairman of Hawley Martin
Partners, which last week agreed to be acquired by Lintas.
Yesterday's advertising column incorrectly reported that
Hawley Martin and Fahlgren &amp; Swink were merging and misstated
the headquarters for Fahlgren &amp; Swink. The story also
incorrectly identified Cincinnati Bell as a client of
Fahlgren &amp; Swink.
   (WSJ May 22, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ServiceMaster L.P.
   Considers Realigning
   Ownership Structure
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7E
</SO>
<CO>
   SVM
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   DOWNERS GROVE, Ill. -- ServiceMaster L.P. plans to revamp
its ownership structure sometime within the 18 months.
   C. William Pollard, chief executive, said he's considering
three alternatives for reshaping the company's ownership:
spinning off a segment, re-incorporating the company or
selling convertible debentures. Mr. Pollard, who will also
become the company's chairman on June 1, didn't indicate
whether he presently favors any of the choices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a move that would facilitate a possible spinoff, the
company earlier this month named two presidents to head its
main operating groups, management services and consumer and
commercial services.
   Analysts indicated they'd like the company to take public
the consumer and commercial services division, which is the
fastest-growing part of the company. Mr. Pollard declined to
say whether a spinoff would likely involve that unit.
   ServiceMaster is considering the realignment because its
partnership structure is unattractive to institutional
investors. Less than 9% of its units are institutionally
owned, Mr. Pollard said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View:
   Class Struggle Will Not End With Communism
   ----
   By George Melloan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   One of my companions on a group tour of the Soviet Union
in 1981 was a retired New Jersey optometrist. He was 96 then
and is still alive, I'm told. As a youth, under his original
Russian name, he had participated in the 1905 uprising that
weakened the power of Czar Nicholas II and gave Russian
democracy a precarious -- and unfortunately temporary --
foothold.
   My friend, who prefers anonymity, was the son of the owner
of a small factory that made shoe uppers in Mogilev,
Byelorussia. As a teen-ager, he became involved with a
Bolshevik cell in the plant and soon was serving as a
Bolshevik messenger. At one stop, according to a story
relayed to me by a grandson, my friend told an inquisitive
Georgian waiting with him in an anteroom that he was an
apprentice shoemaker. "Not a tailor?" the man mocked. "If you
are Jewish, you must be a tailor." According to the story --
which seems plausible given the smallness of the Bolshevik
community at that time -- the anti-Semitic inquisitor was
Iosif Dzhugashvili -- Joe Stalin. Stalin's coarseness would
later manifest itself in far broader and crueler ways, of
course.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Are you still a Bolshevik?" I asked my elderly
acquaintance. "Yes," he replied with a twinkle. "Did you want
to build communism?" "Nah, all that economic stuff came
later. We just wanted to seize power."
   My friend was long gone from Russia by the time the
Bolsheviks did seize power. After he was questioned by the
czar's police about his role in the 1905 uprising, his
parents feared for his safety and arranged for him to leave
Russia, from where he made his way to the U.S.
   I tell this man's story because his long lifetime
encompasses what might be called the Communist Century. He
was in on the beginnings, when those little Bolshevik cells
were struggling to survive. He watched while Stalin shaped a
police state and expanded it into an empire. The contagion
spread to China, North Korea, Cuba, Vietnam, Ethiopia,
Angola, Afghanistan, until nearly a third of the world's
population was under the control of communist regimes.
   Now, we are seeing communism's decline -- in Africa,
Central America, Eastern Europe, Afghanistan -- with the
possibility that the central domino, the Communist Party of
the Soviet Union, will collapse as well. If so, communism at
its core will have come full circle in less than a century.
   One might say that communism already is dead as an
ideology. It is most disliked by peoples who have experienced
it and have learned from bitter experience that Communist
parties do not deliver what they promise: social equality.
Soviet communism went into decline after its inherent
hypocrisy became widely evident. "All power to the people"
was in fact a slogan under which a privileged elite, through
state control of all property, could exercise absolute power
over the people. The Soviets could export communism to Third
World countries mainly because its powerful instruments for
political control were attractive to would-be despots. In the
name of class struggle, Communist parties simply created what
Yugoslavia's Milovan Djilas in 1957 called "The New Class."
   There may be some ratio between how openly Communists
enjoy the fruits of their power and how long they retain it.
Nicaragua's Sandinistas, who displayed a taste for big cars
and haciendas immediately after seizing control in 1980, are
out after only a decade. By contrast, Ho Chi Minh's heirs,
with their ascetic image, may hang on to power for years yet,
despite their murderous ways and the hash they have made of
Vietnam's economy.
   There could be a lesson here: Political leaders who
espouse an ideology better live up to it. The U.S., for
example, espouses democracy and the rule of law. So it is
always worth asking whether its democratic and legal
institutions (Congress and the courts) are functioning as
they should.
   But the fact that Communist parties are being discredited
all over the world does not mean that the more fundamental
force that gave them their initial appeal has been banished
as well. That force is class warfare. It is as old as
history. Plutarch took note of the dangerous "disparity of
fortune between the rich and the poor." Jacob Bronowski, the
late cultural historian who wrote and narrated the brilliant
1974 BBC TV series "The Ascent of Man," sometimes interpreted
history in terms of the have-nots seeking to share the wealth
of the haves. Karl Marx, the inspiration for Lenin, wove
together long treatises in justification of class struggle.
Long after the word "communism" has been laid to rest, class
struggle will still exist and play a part, large or small, in
the politics of all nations.
   History has some lessons about that as well, however.
Those dangerous tendencies in Athens that Plutarch wrote
about were addressed by a remarkable peaceful revolution
conducted by Solon after he was chosen to become the
city-state's leader, or hon, in 594 B.C. He gave Athens a new
system of laws, popular courts and a good measure of
representative democracy.
   Solon proved that when citizens believe that laws are by
and large fair and that they individually are represented in
the government bodies that make and administer laws, the
forces for class struggle are much diminished. Class-warfare
rhetoric is uttered daily in the political arenas of the
West, but so long as no significant class can genuinely say
that it is denied a share of political influence or legal
redress, such appeals will not inspire large-scale resorts to
violence. In that sense, the Western democracies seem to be
in reasonably good health as the 20th century draws toward a
close.
   The nations of Europe that have recently shed communism
are emulating the West by drafting new constitutions and
creating democratic institutions. People in those countries
are most conscious of Solon's lesson because they have
experienced systems that lacked a rule of law and political
representation for a broad populace. Because of the popular
will for change, we may find that Poland, Hungary,
Czechoslovakia, East Germany and the Baltic States will make
a far more rapid transition to democracy than we now imagine.
And who knows, maybe Russia too.
   But that effort will be tested at every turn by those who
would seek to gain and hold power by pitting class against
class, race against race, ethnic group against ethnic group.
Europe, the U.S. and Japan will be tested by how much and how
intelligently they support the transition process. Emerging
leaders already are asking whether Western governments really
believe and practice their ideology or only offer slogans.
   My elderly friend was in on the beginning of an exciting
political change that turned out badly for Russia, something
he might have predicted had he known that a racist Stalin
would ultimately seize power. But now that communism is in
decline, there may be a chance for setting things right, if
the right lessons have been learned.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   Crackdown
   On Cable
   Loses Speed
   ----
   By Laura Landro and Dennis Kneale
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX TCOMA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   The stampede to slap stringent new regulations on cable
television appears to be losing momentum.
   Since last year, the threat of re-regulation has hovered
over the industry like a black cloud, hammering billions of
dollars out of the stock prices of cable operators, scuttling
the proposed sale of scores of cable systems and adding to
the worries held by already-dubious lenders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But as the industry gathers for the annual National Cable
Television Association convention in Atlanta this week, the
most feared threats -- that local authorities could regain
the power to cap rates and cable companies might be forced to
divest some assets -- seem to be receding. A dozen warring
factions in Washington haven't reached a consensus on just
how tough any new controls on cable should be. Unless the
various House and Senate committees sponsoring bills can
agree, legislation may not even pass before the current
session in Congress ends next fall. Analysts also note that
cable is not the most burning issue facing Congress.
   Cable industry rivals argue that the fight isn't finished.
"It's in a state of flux, and it's simply too early to call,"
says John Sodolski, president of the U.S. Telephone
Association, which represents local phone companies in their
bid to be allowed into the cable business. And no one is
saying there won't be some new regulation of cable rates or
controls on other aspects of the industry's business.
   But an intensified lobbying effort by such industry
bigwigs as Time Warner Inc. Chairman Steven J. Ross may have
helped to blunt the most onerous proposals. Until that effort
began in earnest recently, cable operators had been
ineffectual in efforts to persuade legislators to appreciate
the benefits of cable, such as vastly expanded programming
choices, and to understand that average price rises have
closely tracked general consumer price increases.
   Cable officials contend the campaign for re-regulation was
bound to lose strength once the industry's case could be made
and once congressmen began grappling with the nitty-gritty of
how the new rules would work. Another advantage: the
diverging interests of cable's opponents, such as telephone
companies, broadcasters and movie companies.
   "No consensus has emerged, even among those who are intent
upon imposing additional restrictions on cable," says Robert
Thomson, a vice president of Tele-Communications Inc., the
nation's largest cable operator. "It's probably good news for
the cable industry. It indicates that maybe the underlying
reasons aren't as strong-for doing anything."
   But some in the industry fear another year of uncertainty
could hurt worse than new regulations. And the cable industry
has other woes. Though business is generally robust, with
subscribers and cash flow on the uptick, cable stocks
continue to take a beating. Dennis Leibowitz, an analyst at
Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette, calculates that $8 billion in
market value has been wiped out of the stocks of publicly
held cable operators, which account for 45% of the industry's
subscribers. And the transaction market for cable systems,
flooded with ready sellers and eager buyers last year, is at
a virtual standstill.
   Analysts agree that uncertainty over re-regulation is
hurting both stock prices and system sales and that, if
anything, clearly spelled out new regulations might be a
boon. More worrisome, however, are tighter credit market
conditions in the wake of the savings and loans debacle and
problems with companies overextended by leveraged buy-outs.
Banks, skittish over new federal definitions of highly
leveraged transactions -- which would include most cable
acquisition loans -- are reluctant to provide financing, even
though no major cable loan has gone into default.
   The credit crunch "increasingly has had much more impact
on deals not getting done or on stretching them out," says
Greg Ainsworth, a broker at one of the industry's leading
brokerage concerns, Denver-based Daniels &amp; Associates. "I
don't see deals stopping, but the volume of deals will be
much slower, and it may take several quarters until things
turn around."
   A number of cable systems that were put on the market have
been withdrawn, and other systems have languished on the
market for months without a nibble. Closely held Falcon
Holding Group in Los Angeles earlier this month agreed to
acquire systems serving 98,700 subscribers from First
Carolina Corp. in a stock transaction valued at a reported
$1,900 a subscriber; last year, systems were fetching more
than $2,400 a subscriber.
   "Everyone was expecting this deal not to close, but it
did," adds John Waller III, whose Waller Capital Corp.
represented the seller. "While the market isn't as strong as
it was, this should indicate that deals are still getting
done."
   The cable business was alarmed when the first major
proposal for regulation -- a bill sponsored by Sen. John
Danforth (R., Mo.) -- came out last fall. But a Senate staff
proposal floated more recently eased off on some of the
Danforth measure's toughest provisions. Now the proposal from
the staff of Rep. John Dingell (D., Mich.), the House
commerce committee chairman, eases back even further.
   "The Dingell bill is a sign that the debate is moving back
toward the center and away from extremes," says James P.
Mooney, president of the National Cable Television
Association, which plays a lead role in lobbying against
re-regulation. But he adds that some provisos in the Dingell
draft "really give us heartburn."
   The Dingell draft, for example, touches on the biggest
threat to cable: the idea of placing rate regulation of all
cable services back in the hands of thousands of local
government bodies that "tend to be somewhat tumultuous and
arbitrary in their decision-making," Mr. Mooney says.
   But the new proposal throttles back on that threat by
regulating the prices of only basic-cable channels rather
than all services. It would set federal standards that local
governments would have to follow and allow cable companies to
"tier" off, or separate, whatever channels they choose,
removing them from basic service and raising prices as the
cable operators see fit.
   Some analysts believe Congress appears increasingly
inclined to let the Federal Communications Commission rule on
such key issues as rate regulation and vertical and
horizontal integration by cable operators. The FCC has
promised to deliver to Congress by July a comprehensive
review of the industry's behavior since cable was deregulated
by the Cable Act in 1987. Although the FCC may be inclined to
make it easier for cable's competitors to obtain the same
programming and to limit cable's ownership of competing
services such as direct broadcast satellites, the agency is
unlikely to give cities back the regulation authority they
had before cable's broad deregulation three years ago.
   The FCC is also looking at whether to toughen the Cable
Act's definition of "effective competition," now considered
three over-the-air channels in the same market. In systems
with no such competition -- less than 5% of the total-rate
increases are restricted by the Cable Act to 5% annually.
John Reidy, an analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham Inc.,
calculates that if the FCC redefines effective competition as
five over-the-air signals, 70% of cable systems would be
subject to the rate-rise limits under current law.
   The cable industry launched a somewhat belated lobbying
blitz defined by repeated, personal visits. Time Warner's two
executives, Mr. Ross and President N.J. Nicholas, have
lobbied in Washington half a dozen times each this spring.
   Gustave Hauser, chairman of cable-system operator Hauser
Communications Inc., met last week with two of cable's
harshest critics, Sen. Al Gore (D., Tenn.) and Sen. Ernest
Hollings (D., S.C.). "A lot of the urgency to just reach out
and regulate seems to have diminished," he says. Legislators
"want to do something, but something a lot less ferocious."
   Says Tim Boggs, the Washington vice president for Time
Warner and a key lobbyist on the issue: "We're delivering a
very clear message" to Congress, "that what the industry
desires is certainty -- and certainty is reached by reaching
a compromise" on legislation.
   ---
   Mary Lu Carnevale contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Huge Projected Budget Deficit Prompts
   California to Seek Ways to Cut Spending
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7E
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   California legislators, staring at a huge projected budget
shortfall, are studying ways to curb growth in state
spending.
   Gov. George Deukmejian admitted last week that California
faces a $3.6 billion budget deficit for its fiscal year
beginning July 1. The Republican governor blamed the
projected deficit on disappointing tax collections and
existing social programs that push up costs faster than the
state can pay for them.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While state officials haven't ruled out the imposition of
new taxes, they plan to use the coming weeks to hash out
possible cuts in spending.
   The rude fiscal awakening comes at a time when
California's economy "is slowing down, but is still
outperforming the rest of the country," said Jesse Huff, the
state's finance director.
   Mr. Huff said that despite the loss of defense jobs,
growth in employment should exceed 2.5% in the next fiscal
year -- or better than the rate of the state's population
growth.
   In fact, state economists expect California's tax revenue
to increase by 7% in the coming fiscal year. The problem,
however, is that expenditures are rising far more than
revenue growth -- at an 11% clip. That's mainly because the
state runs numerous open-ended "entitlement" programs and has
seen an unexpected rise in its school-age population.
   "Expenditure patterns are going to have to be realigned to
match revenue patterns," said Mr. Huff.
   Just how that will be accomplished isn't clear.
California's state budget has nearly doubled since 1983, and
state Democrats appear ready to resist Gov. Deukmejian's idea
that the only way to close the budget gap is to suspend
automatic annual increases in social welfare and aid to the
blind, aged and disabled.
   Gov. Deukmejian also wants to shore up the state's reserve
fund, which after beginning the year at $1.1 billion, is
expected to total a mere $86 million at the close of the
current fiscal year. His target for a reserve is $1.3
billion, about 3% of next year's spending, which is likely to
exceed this year's $50 billion budget. Such a reserve is
needed, the governor argues, in order to pay for emergencies
such as last October's earthquake in northern California.
   Complicating the debate over how best to accommodate
fiscal realities are fears that California's economy may
weaken in the months ahead. "I don't see the state's economy
being as strong as {others} think it will be," said Thomas
Burns, staff director for the Democratic-controlled
legislature's budget office. "I think the deficit may get
worse before it gets better."
   Indeed, state officials seem to be finding it increasingly
difficult to predict revenue, which largely comes from a
combination of personal income and sales taxes. Last week's
deficit projection was the fourth unsettling budget forecast
in as many years, making fiscal planning a dicey affair in
California.
   For whatever the reasons, said Mr. Huff, "these days there
seems to be a high degree of volatility in tax collections
here."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Banner Industries Inc.
   Mulls Public Offering
   On Its Aerospace Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7B
</SO>
<CO>
   BNR
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- Banner Industries Inc. said it is considering
an initial public offering of common stock of its Banner
Aerospace Inc. unit.
   Banner said it filed a registration statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the
proposed sale of 9.5 million shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it granted the underwriters an option to
purchase an additional 1,425,000 shares to cover
overallotments. Salomon Brothers Inc. and Merrill Lynch
Capital markets, a unit of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., are the
underwriters.
   As a result of the offering, Banner Industries' beneficial
ownership of the common stock of Banner Aerospace will be
reduced to 47.2% from 100% and to 39.3% if the overallotment
option is exercised in full.
   Banner said completion of the offering is subject to
market conditions.
   In March, Banner said it was considering shedding
nonmanufacturing business, including its waste water
treatment group and its aerospace distribution group. Lately
the company has been trying to raise capital for acquisitions
more closely related to its manufacturing focus.
   Banner Aerospace distributes new and overhauled aviation
replacement parts, including fasteners, avionics, bearings
and electrical and airframe parts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Controversy vs. Quality
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Forget Robert Mapplethorpe and Andres Serrano's
"body-fluid art." Have you seen what they're showing to the
public at the New Orleans Museum of Art in an exhibition
called Awards in the Visual Arts? Yes, it is funded by the
National Endowment for the Arts, with additional money from
BMW of North America and the Rockefeller Foundation. The pity
is that it won't cause the outcry heard over Serrano's
crucifix in urine or the most marginal Mapplethorpe
photographs. That is because, with a few exceptions, the
visual arts awards are so awful. They don't shock or amuse or
inspire or do much of anything.
   There are indeed serious issues involved in the dispute
over the charges that NEA has occasionally funded obscenity.
But this controversy has overshadowed an issue that is more
relevant to NEA's proper role and the state of art in
America.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The problem isn't obscenity. The problem is mediocrity.
   Too much of the art produced in the United States now,
much of it with direct or indirect public subsidy, is simply
bad art. Indeed it is accorded status as art only because the
current art establishment -- the NEA, academics, some
curators, many newspaper art critics -- perpetuates the idea
that this work isn't the arid drivel it appears to be, but is
something serious. Not everyone agrees.
   In a remarkable op-ed piece in the New York Times last
July, the well-known American painter Helen Frankenthaler
argued that notwithstanding the incendiary issues of Serrano
and Mapplethorpe, more attention ought to be directed at what
she called a "mediocre art enterprise."
   As a member of an NEA advisory council, Ms. Frankenthaler
said, "I myself find the council -- the recommendations of
the panels and the grants given -- of increasingly dubious
quality. . . . I see more and more nondeserving recipients. I
feel there was a time when I experienced loftier minds,
relatively unloaded with politics, fashion and chic."
   Well, of course Ms. Frankenthaler's plea for the
restoration of quality sank like a stone. Behaving like some
threatened bricklayers' union, the arts establishment has
locked arms to oppose anyone who dissents from the orthodoxy
they've imposed on American art.
   And it is indeed an orthodoxy, though of a most unusual
sort. The artist's work, no matter how reductionist or
outrageous, has to be "understood." If they have created a
movement, it would have to be called hyper-solipsism. The new
school of criticism that has grown up with it is relentlessly
empathetic. This is from a very prominent newspaper critic's
review of Mr. Serrano:
   "One of the more alarming aspects of the attack on the
endowment has been the assumption of many of those doing the
condemning that there is no responsibility to consider the
art as it was meant to be seen." He ends, "how can anyone
find in his work just obscenity and disrespect? It is hard to
believe that anyone whose faith is searching and secure would
not be grateful for what Mr. Serrano has done." Few critics
or administrators today would break ranks intellectually from
this orthodoxy. The director of the Corcoran in Washington,
who dissented from the majority on Mapplethorpe, was driven
from her job.
   We are not reopening the familiar debate over modernity
and American society. Modern, or avant-garde work, is not the
problem. The problem is that the artists and intellectuals
who cry "free expression" to disallow any forceful critique
of their enterprise have achieved so little with their
freedom. Nor is it the publicly funded artists alone whose
achievement is so insubstantial.
   The Pulitzer Prize committee can barely scrape up one
drama annually to bless. New music remains adamantly abstruse
and off-putting. It is interesting to note that rock music,
which has never received a dime of public money, continues to
produce young groups that are at least vital.
   The NEA and its supporters are now posing themselves as
the fragile angel of creative inspiration, beset by
right-wing yahoos, philistines and Bible thumpers. In fact,
the NEA is mainly a bureaucracy. Worse, it is a Washington
bureaucracy, and hundreds of artists, writers and their
sponsors have become its dependent beneficiaries.
   Some Members of Congress are talking about a revised grant
system that would essentially disburse blocs of money to
state arts agencies, which would make the individual grants.
That doesn't immediately solve the kinds of problems
discussed here, but it moves the issue in the right
direction. For instance, it might deflate the Mapplethorpe
problem. There is no good reason why a Cincinnati should be
held up to ridicule because it doesn't subscribe to every
last quirk of the life style in Manhattan.
   At the least, turning authority over to the states would
get the decision-making debate over money and values out in
the country, which is where it belongs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Norfolk Southern
   Sells, Subleases Rail
   Facilities to Wheeling
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6D
</SO>
<CO>
   NSC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NORFOLK, Va. -- Norfolk Southern Corp. announced the sale
and sublease of major rail facilities in eastern Ohio and
western Pennsylvania to Wheeling Acquisition Corp.
   Norfolk Southern sold 446 miles of track and facilities in
Akron, Canton and Brewster, Ohio, to Wheeling for about $40
million. Wheeling, a new corporation created to acquire the
properties, will also sublease the 121-mile Pittsburgh and
West Virginia Railway, now leased from a real-estate
investment trust by Norfolk Southern's Norfolk and Western
Railway subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new railroad will extend from Bellevue, Huron and
Cleveland south to the Ohio River, and east and south to
Connellsville, Pa. It will also have access to existing
Norfolk Southern yards in Cleveland and Bellevue, Ohio, and
Hagerstown, Md., and interconnections with CSX, Conrail and
other rail carriers in the region.
   The sale continues Norfolk Southern's program of spinning
off rail properties that can be run more economically by
smaller lines. Roughly 425 employees now work on the lines
involved in the sale; the new railroad expects to have a work
force of about 380 in its first year.
   As part of the $40 million sale, Norfolk Southern will
provide financing to Wheeling of up to $16.7 million for
existing rolling stock, including locomotives and freight
cars.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   Bush Can't Take Emboldened Congress
   For Granted in Agreements With Soviets
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush and Congress are crossing
swords with increasing frequency on foreign policy, and that
indicates Mr. Bush can't take lawmakers for granted as he
moves toward agreements to reshape East-West relations.
   Congress has defied the president on a variety of
foreign-policy issues in recent weeks. Lawmakers tied down
his request for "emergency" aid for Panama and Nicaragua, and
they forced the administration to cut military aid to El
Salvador.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Senate declared that Mr. Bush shouldn't even bother
asking Congress to ratify a trade treaty with the Soviet
Union if the Kremlin continues to strong-arm Lithuania.
Congress also displeased the White House by saying it
recognizes Jerusalem as Israel's capital. And lawmakers are
moving on their own to impose sanctions against Iraq's
strongman, Saddam Hussein.
   "A lot of us think there's no political loss to
challenging the president on these issues, because the
American people don't support him," says Rep. Howard Berman
(D., Calif.), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee
who has led the drive for sanctions on Iraq.
   To some extent, such stands represent normal
congressional-White House jousting over control of foreign
policy. But they are a far cry from what the president and
his aides had counted on after Mr. Bush, in the first big
power test of 1990, was sustained on his controversial veto
of a bill that would have guaranteed Chinese students haven
in the U.S. The president, against the counsel of some of his
advisers, fought to get that veto upheld in hopes of
convincing lawmakers that he had the muscle to win such
disputes.
   Now it appears that Mr. Bush's stand on China may be
backfiring. After persuading Congress to let him handle U.S.
reaction to China's crackdown on pro-democracy students, Mr.
Bush has failed with his soft-spoken approach to persuade
China's leaders to loosen up. That sour outcome has
emboldened lawmakers to challenge the president on other
issues. And Mr. Bush's apparent decision to seek a renewal of
China's most-favored-nation trade status may cause more
bickering.
   This suggests Mr. Bush may encounter bumps in the road as
he tries to nail down agreements changing the U.S.-Soviet
relationship and repositioning the U.S. to deal with a
revamped Europe.
   There is broad congressional support for relaxing tensions
with the Soviets, and lawmakers are certain to favor new
arms-cutting pacts. But the Senate warning on the Soviet
trade treaty suggests that congressional sympathy for the
Baltic republics' attempts to break away from the Kremlin's
grip could complicate administration efforts to strike
economic agreements with Moscow.
   Many lawmakers think the trade treaty, for instance, would
mainly benefit the Soviets; as a result, it gives the U.S.
leverage that "we need to use," says Sen. Richard Lugar (R.,
Ind.), one of the president's strongest congressional allies
on foreign policy. The administration already is bending to
this sentiment, signaling it may drop plans to sign the trade
treaty at the May 31 U.S.-Soviet summit.
   Since Mr. Bush took office, he has preached that Congress
should keep its nose out of presidential foreign-policy
decisions. That blunt stand may be adding to the president's
problems by producing a backlash among lawmakers who want to
demonstrate they won't meekly defer to the president on
foreign policy.
   "There's a new school of presidential prerogatives, and I
don't like it one damn bit," says Sen. Daniel Moynihan, a New
York Democrat. He sparked a confrontation with the White
House by pushing an amendment to make it a criminal offense
for executive-branch officials to solicit money for, or
divert money to, activities for which direct U.S. foreign aid
is prohibited. The amendment is designed to prevent a repeat
of the Iran-Contra affair. Sen. Moynihan agreed to withdraw
his amendment after Mr. Bush cited it as one reason for
killing a State Department spending bill, but the lawmaker
pledges to raise it again.
   The administration also suffers because its acknowledged
master at stroking Congress on foreign policy, Secretary of
State James Baker, is preoccupied dealing with changes
sweeping over Eastern Europe.
   A bigger problem for Mr. Bush is a feeling, sometimes
uniting Democratic liberals and Republican conservatives,
that the president is too worried about the stability of
existing regimes in places such as Moscow and Beijing and
therefore too reticent to criticize their actions.
   "My guess is that my colleagues feel that in many
instances the president is showing an excess of tolerance"
for such regimes, says Rep. Berman. "Basically, I think the
American people like the idea of an American foreign policy
guided by a principle, and the principle is to encourage
democracy and human rights."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   John Carway Gets
   Two Top Positions
   At Verit Industries
   ----
   By Earl C. Gottschalk Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   VER WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- John Carway, 44-year-old president and
38% owner of Verit Industries, a real-estate concern, was
elected chairman and chief executive officer.
   Mr. Carway, an Irish businessman who acquired his stake in
Verit and became its president last November, succeeds
Malcolm Stockdale, who resigned last week as chairman and
chief executive. Mr. Stockdale, 45, resigned after Verit's
acquisition of 56% of Houston-based Iroquois Brands Ltd. was
"rescinded."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Stockdale, along with Mr. Carway, had led Verit on the
acquisition trail in recent months in an apparent attempt to
build the company into a multi-industry concern with
interests in construction equipment, real estate and control
of toxic wastes. Many of the proposed transactions involved
target companies in need of financial aid, and two of the
proposed acquisitions had become unraveled in the past month.
   A previous Wall Street Journal story noted that terms of
transactions proposed by Messrs. Stockdale and Carway
sometimes called for issuance of large numbers of convertible
preferred shares and often were bewilderingly complex,
sometimes involving companies in the British Isle of Man tax
haven. The story also pointed out that Mr. Carway has
convictions on his record in Ireland for check fraud and in
England for marijuana possession.
   Verit also said Arthur Andersen &amp; Co. was appointed
auditor of the company. A previous auditor, Touche Ross &amp;
Co., now part of Deloitte &amp; Touche, quit auditing Verit's
books last November after a dispute with the company over
what it said could be inadequate disclosure of consulting
fees to a company controlled by Mr. Carway.
   Verit also announced that it earned a profit of $316,000,
or four cents a share, in its third quarter ended March 31,
on sales of $9.3 million. The company said year-earlier
figures aren't relevant because the company's structure
changed after acquisition of two home-building concerns from
Emerald Homes Limited Partnership. The company didn't provide
earnings and sales figures for the nine months.
   Philip J. Polich, 41, formerly vice president and chief
operating officer of Verit, was named to succeed Mr. Carway
as president. Jimmy Wood, 58, president of his own
Phoenix-based real-estate investment company, was elected
executive vice president, chief operating officer and chief
financial officer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Latest From Microsoft Will Heighten
   Competition With Apple's Macintosh
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MSFT AAPL
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   CUPERTINO, Calif. -- Bill Gates swears he doesn't mean
Apple any harm.
   Maybe so. But Windows 3.0, a product he's so proud of that
even his mother will be on hand when Microsoft unveils it
tomorrow, presents the most formidable technical challenge
ever to the Macintosh, Apple Computer's main computer family.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Gates says he has always been interested in making PCs
easy to use. But he insists that only recently have they
grown powerful enough to handle the images and split-screens
needed to control them with simple, intuitive commands.
   Yet Apple did precisely this six years ago, and became the
second largest supplier of personal computers in the world.
Apple created for its Macintosh a new system software, the
program that controls basic operations such as storing files
and sending documents to a printer. The Macintosh operating
system was entirely different from Microsoft's MS-DOS, the
standard for most other desktop computers.
   In MS-DOS, programs' effectiveness is restricted by memory
limitations, and users risk confusion if they forget arcane
command codes. The Macintosh gave the user visual cues to
simplify mundane tasks like copying documents or storing
files.
   Now Microsoft's new Windows, after two earlier,
disappointing Windows versions, comes close to matching the
most compelling features of the Macintosh. And it does so
within the familiar MS-DOS standard, so consumers don't have
to jettison their old programs. Windows even promises a
feature that Macintoshes won't have until next year: the
ability to automatically exchange data between two different
programs.
   Computer experts say the Macintosh system still makes it
simpler to start up the machine, store files and hook up
printers, among other things. But those differences may not
overshadow the major advantage of PCs that use MS-DOS and
Windows: They are far less expensive.
   Apple has less-costly models on the way. It will introduce
a color Macintosh for less than $2,000 as early as this fall.
And it doesn't concede that Windows is its equal: "Microsoft
is very good at comparing their intentions with our
realities," says Jim Davis, Apple's director of systems
software marketing.
   But Apple takes Windows seriously enough that it has sued
Microsoft charging copyright infringement. Apple also worries
that it is too dependent on Microsoft for applications -- the
three best-selling packages for the Macintosh are made by
Microsoft -- and that in the future Microsoft may give less
attention to Macintosh applications. Over the years, some at
Apple have called for breaking with Mr. Gates, fearing that
his secret plan is to weaken Apple's position by imposing a
single software standard for all desktop users.
   Yet today Mr. Gates enjoys cordial relations with Apple
chief executive John Sculley. About two months ago, he even
spent several hours helping Mr. Sculley hash out Apple's
technical direction.
   Mr. Gates says the way for Apple to keep its edge is to
continue to deliver new ways of controlling the PC-voice,
handwriting, multimedia, whatever. But "Apple needs to
focus," he says. "John agrees. Now let's see if he picks the
right areas."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S.-Soviet Summit to Yield Arms Pacts;
   No Agreement in Sight on Europe, Trade
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Next week's U.S.-Soviet summit meeting here
will feature a partial agreement to reduce the superpowers'
arsenals of long-range nuclear missiles and a treaty to
destroy most of their chemical weapons.
   But, after four days of tough preliminary talks in Moscow,
no summit accords are in sight on the more pressing questions
on the future of post-Communist Europe. And a U.S.-Soviet
trade pact, once expected to be signed at the summit, seems
likely to be put on hold because of Moscow's campaign against
Lithuanian independence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   During the talks, Secretary of State James Baker and
Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev were able to agree on
treaty language covering nuclear cruise missiles -- the
highly accurate, hard-to-detect weapons that had proved a
major sticking point in crafting the Strategic Arms Reduction
Treaty. And they readied for signing a pact that would, over
time, eliminate 98% of their vast inventories of poison gas
weapons.
   That makes it likely that Mr. Gorbachev and President Bush
will be able to declare the missile treaty substantially
complete and the summit a political successeven though all
remaining treaty issues won't be worked out for months, and
the cruise missile deal announced Saturday is loaded with
loopholes and exemptions.
   However, Mr. Baker and his advisers reported no progress
at Moscow on much touchier superpower negotiations. These
talks, on conventional arms control and German unification,
could lead to the formal demise of the already disintegrating
armed Soviet empire in Eastern and Central Europe. The
negotiations have supplanted the long-dominant nuclear
missile talks as the highest foreign policy priorities of the
Bush administration.
   Despite new American concessions, no movement was marked
in the separate conventional arms-control talks, where Moscow
has dug in on terms for dismantling the huge Red Army
presence in Eastern and Central Europe. And U.S. officials
reported that Mr. Gorbachev remained adamantly opposed to the
entry of a reunified Germany into the Western Alliance.
   "We had come with ideas designed to push this process
forward, but our counterparts weren't able to respond
meaningfully at this time," an exhausted Mr. Baker said at a
Moscow news conference Saturday evening.
   "It seems clear the Soviets are just not ready to move
much on these issues at this summit," said one senior
American negotiator who participated in the five hours of
talks with Mr. Gorbachev and dozens more with Soviet Foreign
Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, his top aides, and an array of
Soviet generals. The U.S. negotiator added: "Unlike strategic
missile talks, issues like conventional troop pullbacks and
letting Germany go Western pose big domestic political
problems in the Soviet Union. And Gorbachev has enough
trouble at home without taking these on now."
   In addition, it was said that the Soviet president firmly
rejected independence anytime soon for Lithuania and the two
other small Baltic nations incorporated into the U.S.S.R. by
force in 1940.
   Mr. Gorbachev and Mr. Baker met with Lithuania's prime
minister in Moscow last week. But the Kremlin leader told
both that the small country must suspend its March 11
declaration of independence -- a step it has so far refused
to take -- before he will begin a lengthy "dialogue" that
could lead to secession. Meanwhile, Moscow has kept in place
an economic blockade of Lithuania.
   Mr. Baker made it clear that if the Lithuania standoff
continues, chances are poor that next week's summit will
feature the signing of a new U.S.-Soviet trade treaty and the
waiver of trade restrictions -- even if Moscow completes work
on an emigration law that formerly had been the sole
condition for American trade liberalization. That law is
scheduled for a vote in the Soviet Parliament May 31.
   Only a month or so after the May 30-June 3 summit, the
Soviet leader will convene the most critical Communist Party
Congress in years, a meeting at which he aims to purge his
hard-line opponents and force the party to give up much of
its power to government agencies.
   Mr. Baker and his advisers believe Mr. Gorbachev wants to
go into the party's congress boasting of arms control
"progress" with the U.S. and a popular reception in
post-summit visits to Minnesota and California. But they
sense he wants to avoid tackling issues that remind party
hardliners and the Soviet public of the country's recent
retreats.
   As a result, Mr. Bush could face a tough Mr. Gorbachev
next week and find it hard to push his European political
agenda, especially German unification within the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization.
   During his Friday meeting with Mr. Baker, the Soviet
leader showed flashes of anger and complained that some
American actions, such as opposing a greater Soviet role in a
new European development bank, were making it hard for him to
fend off opponents of reform. On Lithuania and other matters,
he repeatedly told Mr. Baker that he is under intense
pressure from hardliners in the military and elsewhere to
drop his conciliatory stand toward the West and internal
dissenters.
   The cruise missile agreements basically grant American
demands to exempt large quantities of those weapons from the
legal limits of the START treaty. Nuclear sea-launched cruise
missiles are excluded from the treaty altogether. They are
covered only in a side document that isn't legally binding
and doesn't include verification. That document limits each
side to a maximum of 880 of the naval missiles, over 100 more
than the U.S. Navy currently plans to build.
   On air-launched nuclear cruise missiles, the U.S. won the
right to place 20 of the weapons on certain bombers but count
them as only 10 against the treaty limits. And an advanced
new conventional U.S. cruise missile called Tacit Rainbow was
exempted from the treaty's range limits in a last-minute
compromise that saved the Moscow talks.
   The two presidents will be able to claim political credit
for other portions of the START treaty settled earlier,
including a 50% cut in heavy Soviet land-based missiles. But
several important issues, including how to count mobile
missiles, still must be decided. Soviet negotiators will fly
to Washington this week to work on those issues.
   Overall, the START treaty would cut total superpower
strategic missiles by about 30%, with most cuts coming from
the Soviet side. While it will be the first arms pact to
actually reduce long-range missiles, it falls short of its
original goal of an overall 50% reduction. It is expected to
be formally signed late this year, after technicalities are
completed.
   Under the chemical weapons treaty, the U.S. and U.S.S.R.
will immediately cease poison gas production and destroy all
but 5,000 tons each of their existing stocks-a roughly 80%
cut for the U.S. and a 90% cut for Moscow. Then, after a
multination pact is completed, the superpowers will further
cut their stocks to 500 tons each over eight years,
completing a 98% reduction for the U.S., 99% for the Soviets.
The remaining stocks would be held until the most dangerous
countries holding poison gas, such as Iraq and Libya, sign
the multinational accord.
   Other, less significant treaties are also expected to be
signed at the summit. These include pacts curbing atomic
tests, setting maritime boundaries, regulating air and sea
transport, and expanding student exchanges and cultural
centers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kroger Agrees to Buy
   Meadowdale Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6I
</SO>
<CO>
   KR WETT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Kroger Co. said it agreed in principle to
acquire 30 food stores and four others under construction
from the Meadowdale Great Scott] division of Meadowdale Foods
Inc., Detroit. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The proposed acquisition would double the number of Kroger
supermarkets in southeastern Michigan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Elizabeth M. Shiels, an analyst at Hilliard Lyons Inc.,
Louisville, Ky., said the proposal marks the first Kroger
would make since its recapitalization in 1988. "Management is
very prudent so I would assume the price was right," she
said. She declined to estimate how much Kroger would pay for
the stores.
   Kroger officials couldn't be reached for comment.
   In addition, Foodland Distributors said it will acquire
the operating assets of Meadowdale's Abner Wolf Distributors
wholesale division, as well as the four remaining Great
Scott] retail locations.
   Foodland, Livonia, Mich., is a joint venture between
Kroger and Wetterau Inc., St. Louis. Wetterau is a food
processor, distributor and retailer.
   Foodland will acquire Meadowdale's headquarters and
warehouse building. Foodland is a wholesale supplier to more
than 110 chain and independent retail stores in Michigan.
   Kroger and Foodland said they will assume certain of
Meadowdale's obligations and liabilities, including all trade
payables and real estate and equipment leases. The exact
amount hasn't been determined, said Greg Gallus, Foodland's
president.
   Completion of the transaction is subject to a definitive
agreement and regulatory approval. The transaction is
expected to be completed in the next two to three months,
Kroger said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   NCO NNO CHOS IWSI LWNGF CSFN COMM
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange added two stocks
and the National Market System of the over-the-counter market
added four. The Big Board added Nuveen California Municipal
Market Opportunity Fund Inc. and Nuveen New York Municipal
Market Opportunity Fund Inc. The symbols are NCO and NNO,
respectively. Based in Chicago, the closed-end management
investment companies invest primarily in municipal
obligations exempt from federal income taxes and,
respectively, California and New York state income taxes. On
the OTC market, Columbia Hospital Corp., a Fort Worth
hospital operator, began trading under CHOS.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gwinnett Bancshares Inc., a Lawrenceville, Ga., bank
holding company, began trading under GBSI.
                                                                                                       

   Integrated Waste Services Inc., a Buffalo manager of
non-hazardous solid wastes, began trading under IWSI.
                                                                                                       

   Loewen Group Inc., a Burnaby, British Columbia, operator
of funeral homes, started trading under LWNGF. The American
Stock Exchange and the Chicago Board Options Exchange have
begun trading options on the common stock of Cellular
Communications Inc., a New York owner and operator of phone
systems, under CMQ. The Amex also began trading options on
the shares of CoreStates Financial Corp., the Philadelphia
bank holding company, under CFQ.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Newbridge Networks
   Gets 2-Year Contract
   From Bell Atlantic
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7D
</SO>
<CO>
   NNCXF BEL
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   HERNDON, Va. -- Newbridge Networks Corp. has signed a
two-year contract valued at $35 million to provide a line of
digital networking equipment to Bell Atlantic Corp., said
Peter Madsen, president of Newbridge's U.S. unit.
   Mr. Madsen said the contract could become a cornerstone
for the Ottawa company's new push into public
telecommunications networks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Newbridge's end-user networks are installed in a phone
company's central offices rather than customer locations. Mr.
Madsen said this approach has several advantages, including
lower costs, higher level of service, longer depreciation
cycles, and "partitioning" that permits hundreds of network
customers to share equipment.
   "We are in discussions with most of the other Bell
operating companies," Mr. Madsen said. "Some of them are
interested in similar applications at phone company central
offices, and others for customer-premises networks."
   In addition, the company is testing equipment and software
programs with government customers in Australia, New Zealand,
Chile and Mexico.
   Mr. Madsen declined to make an earnings estimate for the
year ended April 30. But he indicated that revenue almost
doubled from the previous year's level of 67 million Canadian
dollars (US$57 million). In fiscal 1989, Newbridge earned
C$9.1 million. The company went public in July 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GAO Says Treasury Bond Investors
   Need More Government Protection
   ----
   By Tom Herman and Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The government isn't providing enough
protection to investors who buy and sell U.S. Treasury
securities, the General Accounting Office says.
   In a draft report, the watchdog agency of Congress calls
for greater government control over the huge U.S. Treasury
market, the world's largest securities market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although government-guaranteed Treasury bonds may seem
ultra-safe, many investors have discovered otherwise in
recent years. Some investors have been victimized by
questionable dealer sales tactics and have lost large amounts
of money, according to government officials. Critics also
complain that the public lacks timely information about bond
prices.
   The confidential GAO draft urges Congress to extend the
Treasury's rule-making authority over the government
securities market and to give the Treasury authority to write
rules governing sales practices of brokers and dealers. The
draft also calls on Congress to require greater public access
to bond-price information now held by the largest dealers and
brokers.
   Parts of the report, especially those urging more price
disclosure, have been widely expected. Many dealers and
brokers already are working on ways to sell their price
information to the public. They argue that this not only
would appease lawmakers, but also could represent an
important new revenue source at a time when many securities
firms and banks have been losing money dealing in Treasury
securities.
   Nevertheless, numerous dealers distrust Washington. They
fret that any further government regulation could undermine
the efficiency of the government securities markets, where
the daily trading volume typically exceeds $100 billion.
   The cover page of the GAO's draft report says the draft
"hasn't been fully reviewed within GAO and is, therefore,
subject to revision." Parts of the report, including an
"executive summary," were obtained by this newspaper.
   The study by the GAO is required by a 1986 federal law
that imposed regulations on banks and securities dealers that
trade government securities. That law was enacted by Congress
after several unregulated securities firms collapsed in 1984
and 1985, sending shock waves throughout the financial
markets.
   Under the law, GAO was told to evaluate the act's
effectiveness, recommend whether the Treasury Department's
limited authority over the government securities market
should be continued, and examine the controversial issue of
public access to bond prices.
   According to the GAO draft, the 1986 law "appears to have
improved investor safety" in the government securities
market. However, the draft also says "gaps remain in the
protection afforded to some individual and small
institutional investors," and that "these gaps could result
in investor losses due to abusive practices by dealers."
There is "some evidence that problems have occurred and that
investors have lost millions of dollars."
   Some state and local governments have been victims of
questionable sales practices, the report says. "Although
there is no way to be certain, some or all of such losses
might have been prevented by appropriate sales practice
rules," such as those governing price markups when government
bonds are sold.
   Complaints about huge price markups and high-pressure
telephone sales tactics by fast-talking salesmen have
bedeviled the government bond business in recent years. For
example, numerous towns have sued certain brokerage firms
based in Little Rock, Ark., accusing them of various trading
ploys that resulted in substantial losses to investors, and
the National Association of Securities Dealers has cracked
down on several firms.
   According to the GAO, the "biggest gap" is that the NASD
isn't permitted under exising law to apply its investor
protection rules, such as those on price markups, to the
government securities transactions of the nearly 1,400
dealers and brokers it monitors. The draft says "another
concern" is that the present law doesn't require bank
regulators or the New York Stock Exchange to look for abusive
practices in the government securities activities of the
firms they examine.
   "GAO believes that the absence of fair dealing rules {and
related specific enforcement authority} make transactions in
government securities by some individuals and smaller
institutional investors potentially vulnerable to abusive
dealer practices," the draft says.
   In its draft, the GAO urged Congress specifically to
require that bond brokers' pricing information "be made
available on a real time basis to those willing to pay
appropriate fees." The GAO says the availability of this
information is highly important because it will "make it
easier for investors to protect themselves by evaluating the
reasonableness" of prices quoted by dealers.
   The Public Securities Association, a trade group, has been
shown a copy of the GAO draft "to review for accuracy," says
Frances R. Bermanzohn, senior vice president and general
counsel. She says, "At this point, we're not surprised by
anything in it, which is different from saying we agree with
it. It's just about what we were expecting."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   To the Prague Station
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   Subversives once trafficked in bombs and rifles. Now they
can carry fax machines, computers, laser printers, video
cameras. On July 4 -- the date is no coincidence -- the
Soviet Union's democratic subversives plan to assemble in the
same place for the first time, in Prague, Czechoslovakia. It
ought to be a shot heard 'round the world.
   The Prague Conference, "The Peaceful Road to Democracy,"
is being held at the invitation of Czech President Vaclav
Havel. Charter 77, the Czech human-rights group, is a
co-conspirator. The main sponsor is the National Council to
Support the Democracy Movements in the U.S.S.R., a private
American group whose honorary chairman is exiled dissident
Vladimir Bukovsky. A co-sponsor is Democracy and
Independence, an umbrella group that speaks overseas for the
socialist empire's booming democracy movements. This
organization is led by Armenian dissident-in-exile Paruyr
Hayrikian.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The idea is to bring together leaders from the Soviet
Union's far-flung democratic groups to compare progress, set
strategy and draw more world attention. If Lenin were alive,
he'd probably admire the subversive potential. In fact, if
the Kremlin doesn't allow the democracy delegates to leave
the U.S.S.R., they plan to meet in Lvov, in the Ukraine, and
hold a parallel conference that communicates with the one in
Prague. The chairman of the Regional Soviet in Lvov,
Vyacheslav Chornovil, is in the democratic vanguard.
   These brave U.S.S.R. democrats haven't got the Western
attention they deserve. The Balts are well known, but even
the mayor of Moscow is now a democratic reformer. The Russian
republic may be on the verge of electing Boris Yeltsin,
though it's fair to say Mr. Yeltsin's long Communist Party
ties make him suspect among some democrats. Gary Kasparov,
the chess champion, has resigned from the Communist Party and
is starting a democratic group. He'll be in Prague. And Mr.
Hayrikian, though stripped of his citizenship by Soviet
authorities, was still on the ballot when Armenians elected
their own Supreme Soviet yesterday. Democracy is stirring in
every Soviet republic.
   One goal in Prague will be to give every Soviet delegate
who attends the meeting a modern "democracy kit." The
organizers need: Apple and IBM computers, printers,
photocopiers, fax machines, telephone-answering machines,
cameras, video cameras, walkie-talkies, tape recorders,
megaphones and 50 offset printing presses. In the Information
Age, these are the guns of liberty.
   Many in the West fear these democratic movements might
destabilize Mikhail Gorbachev. And it's true that glasnost
and perestroika have allowed these movements to grow. But we
agree with the Baltic and other democratic leaders who say
Mr. Gorbachev must choose between the forces of reform and
the communist and military reactionaries. Perestroika is
indivisible. The general belief now is that Mr. Gorbachev
faces a watershed at the Communist Party Congress in early
July. A successful Prague rendezvous would signal to the
communists that the grass-roots pressure for democracy is
growing.
   A democratic Soviet Union is in the long-term interests of
the U.S. Only a nation with popular checks and balances will
be trustworthy enough to take a non-threatening seat among
Western nations. No one knows yet if this is what Mr.
Gorbachev has in mind. But while we're waiting for Gorby, the
West can support at the Prague meeting July 4 those Soviets
who've already decided.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Allegheny Ludlum
   Names Bozzone Chief,
   Declares Stock Split
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   ALS WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Allegheny Ludlum Corp. said Robert P.
Bozzone, president and chief operating officer, was named
chief executive officer of this specialty steel producer.
   The specialty metals producer also declared a 3-for-2
stock split and increased its dividend to 33 cents a share
from 30 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bozzone, 57 years old, succeeds Richard P. Simmons,
59, who continues as chairman and chairman of the executive
committee. Mr. Simmons will concentrate on strategy,
acquisitions and management succession.
   A graduate of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Mr.
Bozzone started at the company in 1955 as a metallurgist. He
held several management operating posts prior to being named
president and chief operating officer in 1985.
   Both the split and dividend are payable July 2 to stock of
record June 8. Following the split, the quarterly dividend
will be 22 cents a common share. On a pre-split annual basis,
the dividend is increased to $1.32 a share from $1.20 a
share. The company said the dividend was raised because
"business has been stronger than anticipated." The split will
increase the number of the company's common shares
outstanding to 33,494,000 from 22,329,800.
   Separately, Allegheny Ludlum said it agreed to acquire the
operating assets of Thinsheet Metals Co., a closely held
metals re-rolling concern with facilities in Waterbury, Conn.
The company has about 60 employees. Terms weren't disclosed.
The acquisition is expected to be completed later this
summer, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Industrial Output Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France's industrial-production index rose 0.7% in
March from February and was up 2.4% from a year earlier,
according to seasonally adjusted figures published Friday by
the National Statistics Institute.
   The March result was slightly weaker than forecasters had
anticipated. Many economists had expected the index to make
up most of the 1.8% drop recorded in February, when energy
output was held down by unusually warm weather.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The March result put the index at 112.7, up from 111.9 in
February and 110.1 in March 1989. The index uses 1980 levels
as a base of 100.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   N.V. Philips Names
   Fine, Levy to Posts
   At PolyGram Unit
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   PHG WNEWS PLG
</CO>
<LP>
   EINDHOVEN, the Netherlands -- The management shake-up at
N.V. Philips continues as Jan Timmer promoted two PolyGram
N.V. officers Friday to fill the vacancy created by his
departure in July to assume the post of president of Philips.
   Filling Mr. Timmer's vacancy at PolyGram as chairman of
the supervisory board will be David Fine. Mr. Fine, currently
president and chief executive officer of PolyGram, will
assume his new post at the end of 1990. Mr. Fine has been
president and chief executive officer of PolyGram since 1987.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Alain Levy, currently an executive vicepresident with
responsibility for popular music and music publishing in
France and the U.S., will assume Mr. Fine's position as
president and chief executive officer at PolyGram, which is
80%-owned by Philips.
   Mr. Levy, who has been with PolyGram since 1984, oversaw
PolyGram's recent acquisitions of A&amp;M Records and Island
Records in the U.S.
   The two promotions are the latest developments in the
management shake-up of the Dutch electronics group following
Cornelius Van Der Klugt's announcement earlier this month
that he would resign as president of Philips in July 1990, a
year earlier than expected.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sprague Technologies
   Directors Authorize
   Spinoff of Chip Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   SPG
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- Sprague Technologies Inc. said its
board authorized the company to spin off its semiconductor
business to shareholders.
   The distribution, whose terms haven't yet been worked out,
is expected to occur in the third quarter. A company official
said Sprague would be filing documents with the Securities
and Exchange Commission in about a month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The semiconductor business represents about 25% of
Sprague's total assets of $387 million, said Steven Meyers,
senior vice president, finance and administration. Mr. Meyers
said the spinoff doesn't require shareholder approval.
Sprague, which has about 18.2 million shares outstanding,
closed Friday at $5.625, up 50 cents, in composite trading on
the New York Stock Exchange Friday.
   Edward F. Kosnik, president and chief executive officer of
the capacitor and electronic parts company, said the spinoff
would give the semiconductor group its own identity and that
the move would enable Sprague holders "to better realize the
underlying value" of that group.
   Mr. Kosnik said the spinoff is timely because of the
semiconductor group's "new generation of product offerings
for the disk drive, computer peripherals and automotive
markets." The semiconductor group, which Sprague reports as a
discontinued operation, had profit of $100,000 on sales of
$28 million in the first quarter. Without the semiconductor
results, Sprague net income would have been $1.4 million, or
eight cents a share, on sales of $84.4 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Coalition Pushes for Beer Companies
   To End Sponsorships of Motor Sports
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6B
</SO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Anti-drunk-driving activists want beer companies to
abandon their multimillion-dollar financing of car racing and
other motor sports, saying such sponsorships send the wrong
message.
   To bolster the case, the National Coalition to Prevent
Impaired Driving, a group of more than 100 traffic-safety and
public-health organizations, is holding a press conference
today to promote a new report, "Beer and Fast Cars: How
Brewers Target Blue-Collar Youth." The study concludes that
beer companies spend about $50 million a year "in a
sophisticated campaign to strengthen associations between
beer, cars and speed in a demographic group at elevated risk
of drinking and driving."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The coalition wants beer companies to drop their
motor-sports sponsorships voluntarily, and non-brewers to
pick up the sponsorships. If the brewers don't move, the
groups vow to campaign for a legislative ban.
   The attack is the latest public-relations headache for an
industry that in recent years has come under increasing
criticism for allegedly targeting young people, blacks and
Hispanics. James Sanders, president of the Beer Institute, a
trade association, calls the groups' complaint "ridiculous."
He says it "reached an absurd level that defies common
sense."
   But the report's author, David Buchanan, an assistant
professor at the University of Massachusetts school of public
health, contends that the beer industry, faced with declining
consumption by health-conscious, white-collar Americans, is
targeting blue-collar youth involved in the car culture.
"This target group is accurately perceived by the industry to
include the largest number of heavy beer drinkers," he says.
   At the same time, Prof. Buchanan says, young males from
blue-collar backgrounds are at disproportionately higher risk
of being killed in alcohol-related crashes.
   The report, financed by the AAA Foundation for Traffic
Safety and produced by California's Marin Institute, a
nonprofit research and advocacy group, finds that motor
sports, which include drag racing, motorcycle racing and
"monster-truck" competitions, receive more sponsorship money
from the beer industry than any other type of sport.
   "Beer companies are saturating motor events," says Michael
Schriefer, a pro race-car driver from Manhattan Beach, Calif.
"It's giving the young the wrong impression."
   Typically, motor-sport events are festooned with banners,
bunting and posters decorated with the name of the beer
sponsor, and feature several beer-dispensing booths. Some
events have emcees who periodically urge spectators to buy
beer. Beer companies sometimes underwrite an entire event,
and other times sponsor individual teams or drivers.
   Randi Lynn Hubbard, one of the few female monster-truck
drivers in the U.S., says there is so much beer consumed at
some events that she worries about the fans getting home
safely.
   The report recommends that if an outright ban on beer
sponsorships is politically unfeasible, other steps should be
taken, such as limiting the cup size for beer sales to 12
ounces and halting sales at least one hour before an event
ends.
   In reply, Stephen Burrows, vice president for consumer
awareness at Anheuser-Busch Cos., calls the report
"pseudoscience" based on opinion, not fact.
   "We've determined that racing is a good place to reach our
audience, which is adults over 21," Mr. Burrows says. He adds
that "to conclude that people who wear blue jeans and go to
racing events are drunk drivers is an insult to people who
enjoy racing events." Moreover, he notes that Anheuser-Busch
has spent millions on its "Know When to Say When" ad
campaign, designed to foster responsibility among the
consuming public.
   None of that is likely to mollify critics who argue that
the industry is targeting specific segments of society that
may be more vulnerable to alcohol abuse than others.
   Spring break, for example, remains a controversy. At
Texas's South Padre Island, a favorite gathering spot for
college students, the beer companies this year "weren't
handing out beer, but they had displays, and they sponsored
all kinds of beach games," says Bobby Heard, a spokesman for
Texans' War on Drugs, which is headquartered in Austin. "We
don't want them involved in spring break at all."
   Pat Taylor, director of the alcohol policies project at
the Center for Science in the Public Interest, says beer
companies should be banned from sponsoring rockband tours
because of their potential appeal to young people. She's also
concerned about malt-liquor advertising targeted to blacks
and Hispanics.
   Beer-industry officials say such concerns are misguided.
"No studies have ever related these marketing or advertising
activities to an increase or decrease in alcohol abuse," says
the Beer Institute's Mr. Sanders. Rather, executives say,
these marketing tools promote a specific product among
consumers who already have decided to drink.
   Brewers say the criticism of the industry's marketing
techniques comes from a group of activists who have a
paternalistic attitude toward the rest of the country. "We
believe the American public is smarter than these groups give
them credit for," says Anheuser-Busch's Mr. Burrows.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- The Fortress Companies:
   FAO Schwarz Is
   Back on Track
   With New Crew
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   {Last of a Series}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   NEW YORK -- Five years ago, the famous toy seller FAO
Schwarz seemed like a derailed toy train.
   Sure enough, the company still offered $7,000 rocking
horses and $14,000 toy Lamborghinis. But the electronic toys
and Cabbage Patch dolls that sold big were nowhere to be
found. Long the nation's most prestigious toy seller to the
carriage trade, FAO Schwarz was becoming insignificant.
   But new owners, who purchased the company in 1985, have
revived this fortress under siege. When many companies begin
to stumble, they find failure isn't far away. But as the FAO
Schwarz experience shows, a company that is a fortress in its
marketplace often has such institutional strength that it can
recover from trouble -- at least, if owners are willing to
make big changes.
   The toy-store chain has revised its product mix, appealed
to a broader audience and started an aggressive merchandising
program. Toy industry analysts say sales tripled to about $60
million annually, from $20 million in 1984. The company
doesn't release sales and earnings figures. But it says the
chain -- which was losing money five years ago -- is again
profitable.
   "Of all the names people have tried to bring back from the
dead, FAO has been the most successful," declares Carol
Farmer, a retailing-industry consultant based in Boca Raton,
Fla. "It's remarkable what experienced managers and an
entrepreneurial spirit can do to a tradition-bound company."
   For all its recent problems, the company once seemed to
enjoy an impregnable position in its market niche. Tracing
its history to Civil War days, the company offered childhood
excitement to generations of Americans, especially if they
were rich. Visiting the company's flagship store on Fifth
Avenue here was "like dying and going to heaven," recalls New
York venture capitalist Edwin Goodman. As a child, he says he
stood mesmerized for hours in front of the elaborate Lionel
train display, watching the trains meander through the
mountains and the forests. "It was absolutely hypnotic," Mr.
Goodman says.
   At least one out-of-town five-year-old was so excited by
his first visit to the store that he fainted, recalls F.A.O.
(Fritz) Schwarz Jr., a New York lawyer.
   His great grandfather, Frederick August Otto Schwarz, an
immigrant from Germany, opened the first Schwarz store in
1862, in Baltimore. After running the company profitably for
over a century, the family sold it in 1963. "My father asked
if anyone wanted to run the stores, and no one did," says Mr.
Schwarz.
   The company lost strength under a series of owners, which
included Parents Magazine Inc. and W.R. Grace &amp; Co.
   At one point, for instance, the company concentrated on
stocking the store with expensive European-made toys, which
alienated domestic toy makers, industry executives say. And
when the industry boomed in the early 1980s because of such
new products as the Cabbage Patch Kids, FAO Schwarz refused
to carry them because they didn't fit its high-end image.
   By the early 1980s, the entire chain was suffering. Big
discounters such as Toys 'R' Us Inc. and mass marketers like
K mart Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores dominated toy retailing.
With a policy of stocking only expensive items, FAO Schwarz
found itself ignored by consumers.
   Many U.S. manufacturers routinely left FAO out of their
marketing plans. "We didn't care if we sold to them or not,"
says Herbert Raiffe, president of Gund Inc., an Edison, N.J.,
toy maker.
   Even the store concedes its decline was creating a
depressing atmosphere. Peter Harris, now FAO Schwarz's chief
executive, says: "FAO had become a frightening kind of place.
It was scaring away customers." Mr. Harris, who had managed
the chain for a previous owner, acquired it in 1985, in
partnership with Philadelphia investment banker Peter Morse
and several FAO Schwarz employees.
   The new owners brought in new capital and new directors
familiar with upscale retailing. Late in 1987, they raised
about $7 million in capital from Prudential Venture Partners,
New York, and Boston's Charles River Ventures. They expanded
the board to include Tiffany &amp; Co. Chairman William Chaney;
Lew Frankfort, president of Coach Leatherware, and venture
capitalist Paul Hirschbiel of Prudential.
   But the hard part was "to find a way to redeliver to
customers' expectations," Mr. Harris says. To the partners
that meant redefining the store's entire philosophy: Keeping
the upscale image but expanding it to include new generations
of customers. "We weren't competing for the customer that
shops at Toys 'R' Us or Wal-Mart. We're looking for an
upscale buyer of gifts," says Mr. Harris.
   The company is emphasizing convenience over price by
providing new services. These include a "two-minute shop"
that offers pre-wrapped toys for quick shopping, free
gift-wrapping and a personal shopping service both for phone
customers and in-store shoppers. Customers who can't make
regular shopping hours can arrange visits at other times.
   The company also stocks a broader range of products,
including more toys than before in the $15 to $25 range. The
store isn't abandoning its policy of selling $225 rocking
bluebirds or $295 table soccer sets; it's merely casting a
wider net for customers, explains Mr. Harris.
   As part of its new merchandising strategy, FAO Schwarz
once again is courting big U.S. toy makers like Hasbro Inc.
and Tyco Toys Inc.
   There's now an open-door policy for the smaller and less
heralded toy makers: They can visit during working hours and
be guaranteed a meeting with one of the store's buyers. "We
want to act as a showcase for smaller entrepreneurial
companies," says Mr. Harris.
   Last November, FAO Schwarz helped launch Magnetic
Dimensions, an interactive, three-dimensional toy marketed by
Sicommerce Inc., New York, with a party for 5,000 guests. It
also devoted an exclusive display area and space to play with
the product. In the first eight weeks, the store sold 5,000
units at $50 each, says Robert Lieberman, vice president of
Sicommerce. "They launched the product and they made us a
star."
   The flagship store itself, moved to a new location in
1987, also underwent a major transformation. Shoppers,
greeted by doormen dressed as toy soldiers, walk into a space
dwarfed by a 28-foot tall, electronic animated musical clock.
The surrounding space is filled with hundreds of plush
animals, some gigantic, some dwarf-like. A cage-like glass
elevator or a child-friendly slow-moving escalator takes
shoppers to the second floor where children can lounge about
and construct their Lego sets or watch transfixed as the
trains go by.
   "The {New York} store is fresher than it's ever been,"
says Alan Hassenfeld, chairman and chief executive of Hasbro,
the nation's largest toy company.
   Though the new owners have trimmed the chain to 15 stores
from 22 five years ago, they have opened a new store in San
Francisco and plan additional stores in Chicago and Tokyo.
They also have revived their catalog and plan to mail it to
over five million customers this year.
   As in the early days of the store, Mr. Hassenfeld
declares, "it's once again the place where things happen."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hubble Telescope Shows Signs of Promise
   As First Pictures of Universe Come Back
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6E
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   GREENBELT, Md. -- The Hubble Space Telescope took its
first photos of the universe, ending fears that it was
becoming a space turkey and offering hope that it may become
the space masterpiece promised instead.
   The orbiting telescope has been plagued by software
problems, jittery hardware and human error since it was
launched April 24. But yesterday, it aimed its main camera at
a nearby star cluster, known as NGC 3532, and relayed back
some striking shots. The space telescope was able to discern
that an image, which looked like an oblong blob in a photo
taken recently by a big telescope in Chile, was instead two
stars orbiting near each other.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is as good or better than {images} I've seen at Mt.
Palomar," said James Westphal, the Hubble astronomer in
charge of the camera, referring to the big California
observatory.
   But the telescope -- at about $2.5 billion, the most
expensive spacecraft ever built -- still must improve
significantly to reach the ambitious goals set out for it by
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Space
agency officials have bragged that the telescope will be able
to pinpoint objects 25 times dimmer than those seen from
Earth and see back nearly to the time of the Big Bang.
Astronomers want to use that power to measure the age of the
universe more precisely and to search for such exotic
phenomena as black holes -- gravitational masses that swallow
any stars unfortunate enough to be in the way.
   But before it starts those searches, NASA must upgrade the
telescope's focus by a factor of seven, Hubble scientists
said, and reduce the telescope's jitters by a factor of 10.
NASA has plans to accomplish both, and expects to start using
the telescope for scientific exploration in about 2 1/2
months.
   Yesterday was a kind of christening for the telescope,
which astronomers call "first light." It was the first time
the telescope was used to record and transmit images to the
ground; it was also a test of how well the telescope is able
to focus using relatively coarse adjustments. With first
light, said Duccio Macchetto, one of the telescope's
principal scientists, "You know you have something that
works."
   Hubble scientists and the press congregated around video
monitors at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, which
controls the spacecraft from the ground. All the scientists
professed confidence in the telescope, but as first light
arrived, their bravura faded.
   "Oh damn, I can't see from here," snapped John Bahcall, a
grey-haired astronomer wearing Reeboks who lobbied NASA and
Congress for years to build the telescope. After changing his
seat, he sat transfixed as the images appeared on the screen.
Edward Weiler, another Hubble veteran, rolled his tongue
compulsively, and called over to Mr. Bahcall: "We're almost
there, John."
   The screen showed Mr. Westphal, an elfin man with a white
crew-cut and white beard, working on the images at a computer
terminal with two assistants elsewhere at Goddard. When it
became clear that the pictures were twice as good as
expected, tension turned to good cheer.
   Afterwards, Mr. Bahcall congratulated Jean Olivier, the
NASA official in charge of the test, and speculated that Mr.
Olivier may have underestimated how well the telescope would
perform to make the results look better. Both he and Mr.
Oliver hail from Shreveport, La., Mr. Bahcall said, and
"That's the way we Louisiana boys do it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lotus-Novell
   Plan for Merger
   Is Called Off
   ---
   Collapse of $1.5 Billion Deal
   Adds to Growing Power
   Of Dominant Microsoft
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LOTS NOVL MSFT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lotus Development Corp.'s $1.5 billion merger with Novell
Inc. collapsed at the 11th hour, eliminating a potential
challenge to the growing dominance of software industry
leader Microsoft Corp.
   The combination, announced April 6, had been hailed as
redrawing the balance of power in the booming
personal-computer software business. Analysts said at the
time that the planned merger provided a counterweight to the
power of Microsoft, Redmond, Wash. The deal's collapse leaves
Microsoft more dominant than ever and gives its two most
important challengers self-inflicted wounds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lotus's chairman and chief executive officer, Jim P.
Manzi, said in an interview that negotiations with Novell
fell apart late Friday, after Provo, Utah-based Novell's
board unexpectedly demanded that the new company's board be
made up of four directors each from Novel and Lotus, which is
based in Cambridge, Mass. Lotus, which had already made major
concessions to Novell to stregthen Novell's voice in
management, rejected the new proposal.
   Mr. Manzi seemed stung by the sudden reversal. After all,
he said, Novell's chairman had first proposed the merger.
"It's a shame," Mr. Manzi said. "We ended up wasting a lot of
time and money talking with people who apparently didn't know
what they wanted."
   Novell's version of the events couldn't be determined.
Raymond Noorda, Novell's chairman, president and chief
executive, was unavailable yesterday, a spokeswoman for him
said. She said the company's executives wouldn't have any
comment until today.
   Analysts said the failure of the two companies to come to
terms is likely to lead to other partnerships. "This sets the
stage for a realignment of the software industry," Rick
Sherlund, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., said.
   In a letter of intent signed April 5, Lotus and Novell
spelled out a four-three board with four directors from
Lotus, and designated Mr. Noorda vice chairman. Novell was to
be acquired through a stock swap of 1.19131 Lotus shares for
each Novell share.
   But investors at first reacted negatively to the proposed
deal, and Novell holders were unhappy that it didn't offer
them a premium for their shares. Critics also raised
questions about whether the companies' technologies and
sharply different management cultures could be combined.
Indeed, analysts said institutional holders of Novell may
have pressured board members to alter terms of the deal.
   Mr. Manzi said that in subsequent negotiations, Lotus had
agreed to make Mr. Noorda chairman of the combined companies,
with Mr. Manzi serving as president and chief executive, and
agreed to rename the company Lotus/Novell Corp. The revised
terms, meant to ensure a strong management role for Mr.
Noorda, were agreed upon Wednesday, Mr. Manzi said. He was so
sure the merger would go through that he left with his family
Thursday for a weekend vacation at Walt Disney World in
Orlando, Fla. "We thought we had a deal," he said.
   But Novell's board met Friday and demanded that the
composition of the board be changed, Mr. Manzi said. "They
had repeatedly agreed to the four-three board, and we weren't
going to give in on this," he said. "A four-four board is a
prescription for deadlock."
   The combined companies would have had revenue of more than
$1 billion, surpassing that of Microsoft and dominating their
respective markets. Lotus has long been the leader in
financial spreadsheet software with its best-selling 1-2-3
line, while Novell holds an estimated 60% market share in
network operating systems, the software that weaves
stand-alone personal computers into networks.
   Analysts said the broken deal marks a major setback for
both companies, and leaves Microsoft in an even stronger
position on the eve of one of the largest product
announcements in its history. Microsoft tomorrow will
announce Windows 3.0, a strategic enhancement of its flagship
operating-system software package known as MS-DOS, the basic
operating software that controls most personal computers.
   In the wake of the failed merger, "Microsoft emerges as
the big winner," said Mr. Sherlund of Goldman Sachs. Lotus
and Novell "have cast their future," he said. "It's likely to
be tougher for both of them -- and a lot easier for
Microsoft."
   Analysts also said the collapse leaves open the
possibility that Novell will seek other partners. "They've
been down that road once, maybe they are willing to try
again," said David Readerman of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
He didn't speculate on other potential partners.
   The collapse of the deal led to speculation that another
suitor had emerged for Novell. But Mr. Manzi dismissed this
possibility and added that there was a no-shop clause in the
letter of intent, precluding Novell from seeking other
partners during negotiations.
   Nonetheless, some Novell investors began accumulating
shares last week, betting that the deal would be broken and
that a richer one might be forthcoming, said Robert Therrien,
an analyst with PaineWebber Inc.
   The merger's failure raises anew all of the long-term
strategic concerns that brought the two companies together.
With Microsoft in control of the basic software that runs
personal computers, nearly every other company in the
industry must tailor their products to work with those of
Microsoft. The company's lengthening shadow led one industry
executive to call it "the Standard Oil of the software
industry."
   "Those concerns aren't going away," Mr. Sherlund of
Goldman Sachs said. "And it's going to be very awkward for
Novell and Lotus to go back to shareholders and tell them
that the compelling need they saw for this merger last month
is no longer so pressing."
   In national over-the-counter trading Friday, Lotus shares
closed at $34.375, unchanged, and Novell shares closed at
$40.125, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Somethings's Up at Geico, and Talk Has Buffett,
   44% Holder, Looking to Cut That Stake Down
   ----
   By David B. Hilder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   GEC BRK
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- How long is forever?
   In the case of the Omaha, Neb., billionaire Warren E.
Buffett, who has said of his stock investments, "Our favorite
holding period is forever," the end may be nearer than you
think.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The talk among some Wall Street merger specialists -- they
have lots of time to talk these days -- is that Mr. Buffett
has asked Salomon Brothers to explore the possible sale of
his 44% stake in Geico, a highly profitable auto and
homeowners insurance company.
   Insurance industry executives who know Mr. Buffett and
Geico say the merger specialists are only half right. They
say that something does seem to be up at the insurance
company, but that the various possible outcomes are unlikely
to involve an outright sale of the 44% Geico stake held by
Berkshire Hathaway, which Mr. Buffett controls.
   John Gutfreund, chairman of Salomon, is personally
involved in the project, the merger folks believe, probably
because Mr. Buffett, through Berkshire Hathaway, also owns
13% of Salomon.
   Mr. Buffett didn't return phone calls last week seeking
comment on these reports. Neither did Mr. Gutfreund or
William Snyder, chairman of Geico. A Geico spokesman declined
to comment.
   Buffett buffs point to a sentence that has appeared in the
annual report of Berkshire Hathaway for the past seven years:
"Regardless of price, we have no interest at all in selling
any good businesses that Berkshire owns."
   But the insurance executives familiar with Geico
acknowledge that something is up at the company and that a
change in Mr. Buffett's ownership position -- most likely,
but not necessarily, a decrease -- could result.
   The merger-makers are salivating at the size of a
potential transaction. Mr. Buffett's 6.85 million Geico
shares, for which he paid $45.7 million between 1976 and
1981, have an indicated market value of about $1.03 billion
at Friday's closing price of $150.50 a share. The stock
market value of all Geico shares is about $2.32 billion. A
buyer of Mr. Buffett's block or the entire company would be
likely to pay a premium above the market price.
   Despite Wall Street's excitement about a possible sale,
insurance industry executives say that whatever changes are
brewing in the Buffett-Geico relationship don't stem from any
dissatisfaction on Mr. Buffett's part with Geico. Rather, the
executives say, any change is more likely to reflect an
effort by Geico's management to keep the company's strong
return on equity from eroding.
   In a sense, Geico has been too successful for its own
good. The company's basic auto insurance business -- policies
sold to good drivers by phone and mail -- has helped generate
23% annual growth in per-share earnings over the past five
years. Though that growth is slowing, analysts still expect
growth of about 15% a year.
   Retained earnings are piling up fast; Geico's per-share
earnings last year of $13.74 far outstripped its current
$2-a-year dividend rate. This increasing equity base makes it
tougher to produce an impressive return-on-equity figure.
   Geico managers "have some real hard thinking to do right
now," Gerald Lewinsohn, a Merrill Lynch insurance analyst,
says. "If they just sit where they are and continue
disciplined underwriting, the company's return on equity is
going to fall."
   The company's basic strategy of avoiding high-risk drivers
limits its growth. And its modest attempts to diversify into
reinsurance or to expand its life insurance sales have been
disappointing.
   One way to boost return on equity, of course, would be to
limit the growth of shareholders' equity by paying bigger
dividends. Geico, in fact, increased its quarterly dividend
to 50 cents a share from 45 cents in February.
   Another way to improve returns is to buy back stock, which
Geico also has been doing. But the company hasn't found
long-term holders in any rush to part with their shares.
   All this leads some investment bankers and insurance
executives to conclude that Geico might offer to buy back
some of Mr. Buffett's shares, perhaps as part of a tender
offer for part of its stock. Though it might seem logical for
Geico to try to buy out Mr. Buffett entirely, Merrill Lynch's
Mr. Lewinsohn says Geico couldn't afford a buy-back that big.
   Yet another option would be for Mr. Buffett, through
Berkshire Hathaway, to offer to buy out the remaining public
shareholders. At $200 a share, which is what Mr. Lewinsohn
believes Geico is worth, that would cost about $1.71 billion.
   Berkshire Hathaway could certainly raise the money. But
Mr. Buffett hasn't become a billionaire by paying full price
for mature companies.
   ---
   Geico
   (NYSE; Symbol: GEC)

   Business: Auto and homeowners insurance
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Net income: $213.1 million; $13.74 a share
                                                                                                       

   First quarter, March 31, 1990:
   Per-share earnings: $3.02 vs. $2.94
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   3,089 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 15.4 million
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Contel Corp.:
   Ex-Workers Get $8 Million
   In Defamation-Suit Award
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CTC LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   After a four-week civil trial, a jury in U.S. District
Court in Baltimore Friday found that Contel Corp. defamed two
former employees, and awarded the two men a total of $8
million in punitive and compensatory damages, according to
one of the plaintiff's lawyers.
   William P. Kamachaitis, former president of Contel's
Fairfax, Va., federal-systems sector, was awarded $2.5
million in punitive damages and $2 million in compensatory
damages. Thomas Hassey, former vice president for human
resources of the sector, won $1.5 million in punitive damages
and $2 million in compensatory damages, said Mr. Hassey's
lawyer, Charles F. Chester, of Rockville, Md.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Contel officials couldn't be reached for comment.
   The two men filed suit against the telephone holding
company in December 1987, contending they were defamed by
corporate officers in statements made to business
publications and Contel employees, as well as in internal
memos.
   Mr. Kamachaitis and Mr. Hassey were dismissed in May 1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Corporate Capital Resources Inc.:
   Venture-Capital Firm Says
   It's Under Scrutiny by SEC
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   CCRS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Corporate Capital Resources Inc., Westlake Village,
Calif., said the Securities and Exchange Commission has been
investigating the company since February for possibly
manipulating its stock price.
   Corporate Capital, a venture-capital firm, said the probe
relates to its lawsuit against Los Angeles-based Securities
Settlement Corp., a clearing broker. The suit alleges that
Securities Settlement manipulated Corporate Capital's stock
price, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Corporate Capital said the SEC is looking into whether
Corporate Capital participated in that alleged manipulation
or others since September 1988.
   Securities Settlement officials couldn't be reached
immediately for comment.
   The SEC also is investigating whether Corporate Capital
misstated its investment holdings in its financial reports to
the agency, the company said.
   In an interview, Daniel Weston, Corporate Capital
president and chief executive officer, said: "We strongly
believe the results of the investigation will be favorable to
us and won't have any adverse effects on the company."
   In national over-the-counter trading Friday, Corporate
Capital's stock closed at 12.5 cents a share, down 3.125
cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Compaq Computer Corp.:
   Company Plans to Unveil
   A New Line of Computers
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   CPQ
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Compaq Computer Corp. said it will introduce today a new
line of personal computers that have built-in networking
features.
   Dubbed the Deskpro 286N and Deskpro 386N, the new PCs are
about half the height of Compaq's current desk-top units and
come with extensive hardware and software security features.
Suggested resale prices for the Deskpro 286N start at $1,699
and for the 386N at $2,299.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Price competition is a major reason for the Compaq
introduction: many customers for Compaq's top-of-the-line
file servers -- powerful PCs that can process information
simultaneously for dozens of terminals -- were buying rivals'
desk-top units, according to Michael Swavely, president of
the Houston-based company's North American operations. At the
same time, he added, networked systems are becoming the major
PC growth area of the 1990s.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Strategists
   Don't See
   Bull Run
   ---
   Analysts Say Surge
   In Stocks Signifies
   New Trading Range
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW INTC CPQ GSX HON ETN GE GWW SNS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock market skeptics had their hands full
last week, clinging to their disbelief.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average set records on three
days, though it fell back 11.80 Friday to close at 2819.91.
Moreover, some prominent individual stocks that aren't in the
industrial average, such as Compaq Computer, also surged to
new highs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But few strategists and professional investors think
stocks have embarked on a new bull run of any great
significance. Instead, they think the market is merely
nudging the top rail a little higher on the trading-range
fence. Instead of the industrial average being confined below
roughly 2800, now a top of about 3000 is seen as a
possibility. But the market's trading-range syndrome, they
assert, will prevail.
   The latest upward push began two weeks ago with a 63-point
rally in the Dow that vaulted the average over 2800. The
engine driving stocks' thrust was a powerful bond market
rally that pushed down long-term interest rates to 8.6% from
more than 9%. The big moves in both markets convinced many
strategists that declining interest rates will be essential
for stocks to rise further in the weeks ahead. Investors will
push up stock prices faster than corporate profits can grow
in a slowing economy, the theory goes, if interest rates fall
as inflation eases.
   Skeptics have an arsenal of arguments to shoot holes in
this theory. For example, David Rajala, director of equity
investments at One Federal Asset Management, contends
inflation won't necessarily ease up as the economy grows
slowly.
   "The Wall Street consensus is that slow growth means lower
inflation," says Mr. Rajala. "But we have trouble finding a
historical precedent for that. Normally, slow growth is
associated with high rates of inflation." He thinks inflation
will stubbornly remain around 5% this year, indicating that
bond yields will drift between 8% and 9% and stocks will be
confined in a range of about 2200 to 3000 in the Dow
industrials.
   "It is hard for us to be convinced that this {latest
rally} isn't a move to a top of a trading range in the stock
market," says Mr. Rajala. "For us to believe that rates are
going to come down significantly, we feel we have to have
{some} quarters of negative economic growth" -- though not
necessarily consecutive quarters, which could qualify as a
recession.
   There are other forces that will keep interest rates high
and cap the stock market rally, skeptics say. Demand for
capital from Eastern Europe; less foreign investment capital
from Japan; borrowing demands by the Treasury and by
Resolution Trust Corp., the thrift bailout agency -- all
these will keep rates up, says Byron Wien, managing director
at Morgan Stanley and the company's chief U.S. investment
strategist.
   "You aren't going to get enough support from the bond
market to get a bull move," Mr. Wien says. If the industrial
average vaults over 3000 while bond yields stay at current
levels or move higher, Mr. Wien says he will sell stocks.
   In the meantime, he has put a little bit more money to
work, taking his cash position down to 12% last Monday from
15% previously. Mr. Wien is one of those who think corporate
profits will start improving in the second half of this year.
"The economy still has a significant amount of natural
momentum," he says.
   Even so, Mr. Wien is focusing on growth companies. He
would still buy technology issues, such as Sun Microsystems,
Intel, and Compaq Computer, even though they have rallied
strongly. Technology carries the heaviest weight of any
sector in his portfolio. Mr. Wien says he bought these shares
earlier this year because they were cheap, and the companies
had new products that would most likely create favorable
earnings surprises.
   Skeptics also doubt any lasting buoyancy will come out of
the budget deficit-reduction process. To be sure, curbing
federal demand for capital would help lower interest rates,
which would probably boost stocks, says Arnold Moskowitz,
director of investment strategy at County NatWest Securities
USA. But for that happy outcome, he estimates at least $50
billion must be lopped from the fiscal 1991 deficit, which he
considers a big stretch for politicians facing an election
year.
   But, just in case, Mr. Moskowitz has projected the effects
of declining interest rates: accelerating a trend of higher
capital spending, and lowering the dollar, which would
stimulate U.S. exports. To play higher capital spending and
rising exports, Mr. Moskowitz suggests such stocks as General
Signal, Honeywell, Eaton, General Electric, W.W. Grainger,
and Sundstrand.
   There also are skeptics among analysts who focus less on
economic fundamentals and more on market history and other
technical factors. One of these is Laszlo Birinyi, president
of Birinyi Associates, a stock research company, who thinks
the most recent runup obscures rather than illuminates what's
happening in the market.
   Mr. Birinyi closely examined the week that included the
rally on May 11 when the industrial average soared 63.07 to
2801.58. He found broad, indiscriminate moves in all stocks.
For example, the 50 largest stocks in Standard &amp; Poor's index
were up 3.7% that week and the 50 smallest were up 2.3%. The
50 S&amp;P stocks with the highest projected earnings increases
for the next five years rose 3.6%, while the 50 with the
lowest five-year earnings forecast rose 3%.
   Normally, when investors pour money into most segments of
the stock market, analysts rejoice. But Mr. Birinyi doesn't,
because that spate of across-the-board buying didn't change
the underlying trends that have prevailed all this year.
   This year through Friday, the 50 largest stocks in the S&amp;P
500 are up 3.9% while the 50 smallest in the index are down
4.4%. As measured by five-year earnings forecast, the first,
second and third groups of 50 stocks each are up 5.6%, 3.9%
and 6%, respectively, this year; the three bottom 50-stock
tiers are down 3.6%, 4.1% and 4.9%, respectively.
   The rally, Mr. Birinyi concludes, is still concentrated in
relatively few growth stocks, which doesn't bode well for a
broad advance in the market, and not even for the 30 Dow
industrials.
   While the industrial average closed Friday just a few
points below its latest record, broader indexes were far
below their all-time highs -- the S&amp;P 500 by 1.4%, the New
York Stock Exchange composite index by 2.9%, and the Nasdaq
composite by 7.7%.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stocks drifted lower Friday, but finished the week with a
gain.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 11.80 to 2819.91.
Advancing issues outpaced decliners 742 to 725 on the New
York Stock Exchange, where volume totaled 162,520,000 shares.
   For the week, the industrial average advanced 18.33
points, or 0.65%, following a 3.37% gain in the previous
week. Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index gained 0.75% for the
week, while the New York Stock Exchange composite rose 0.68%.
   Prime Motor Inns jumped 1 5/8 to 13 3/4. The stock was one
of the Big Board's most active issues. Traders suggested that
buying by traders who previously had borrowed shares and sold
them, anticipating a price decline, was responsible for the
move, according to Dow Jones Professional Investor Report.
   Two weeks ago, Prime agreed in principle with Blackstone
Capital Partners to form a joint venture to manage and
develop Prime's Howard Johnson and Ramada franchise systems.
   That news spurred Manor Care to announce that it was
"extremely interested in making a proposal . . . more
favorable to Prime" than the Blackstone agreement. Manor Care
said Friday that it is still interested in buying Prime Motor
Inns, Professional Investor Report said. Officials at Prime
Motor Inns weren't immediately available for comment.
   Chiquita Brands closed 3/8 higher to 20 1/2 on volume of
more than 1.8 million shares. A 6.1 million-share secondary
offering was priced at $20.125 a share Thursday.
   A 4,250,000-share secondary offering of Leslie Fay, also
priced Thursday, pushed the stock up among the most active
issues. The issue was priced at $12.75 a share. Leslie Fay
closed at 13 1/2, up 1/2, on volume of more than 1.1 million
shares.
   Home Depot hit another 52-week high, adding 1 1/4 to 56
1/2. Prudential-Bache Securities repeated its "buy"
recommendation on the stock for institutional and retail
clients last week.
   Kay Jewelers added 5/8 to 8 3/8. Certain of the company's
officers and directors, who own a total of 40% of the
company's common stock, have said that they intend to buy as
much as one million more shares. Last Wednesday, Kay Jewelers
fell 2 3/8 after three banks announced that they may stop
lending money to the company.
   UJB Financial added 1/4 to 16 3/4. Chilmark Capital has
acquired a large stake in UJB, and will be filing, as
required, with the Securities and Exchange Commission within
the next 10 days, according to Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 1.38
to 356.32. Amex volume totaled 13,041,010 shares, compared
with 13,760,530 shares Thursday. There were 275 issues
advancing, 267 declining and 255 were unchanged.
   Home Shopping Network gained 1/2 to 7 1/4. A Florida-based
newspaper reported that the company has hired First Boston to
help find a buyer for the company. Neither Home Shopping nor
First Boston officials could immediately be reached for
comment. The newspaper also reported that Home Shopping had
applied for listing on the New York Stock Exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Media General Inc.:
   Virginia Broadcast Company
   Names a Chief Executive
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MEGA
</CO>
<LP>
   Media General Inc., a Richmond, Va.-based broadcast,
cable-TV and publishing company, said J. Stewart Bryan III
was named chairman, president and chief executive officer,
effective July 1.
   Mr. Bryan, 52 years old, is currently chief operating
officer of the company and publisher of its Richmond
newspapers. He will succeed his 83-year-old father, D.
Tennant Bryan, as chairman, and James S. Evans, 68, as
president and chief executive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The elder Mr. Bryan and Mr. Evans will remain directors of
the company and serve as vice chairman and chairman of the
executive committee, respectively.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Washington Docket:
   Election-Year Pressures Boost Chances
   For Passage of Tough Anti-Crime Bill
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- If it's an election year, Congress must be
getting tough on crime.
   Sure enough, the Senate is expected this week to take up
the omnibus crime bill, with some of the usual suspects in
the lineup: new death-penalty provisions, curbs on the
byzantine capital-punishment appeals process, and gun
control, among others.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What's different about this year's sound and fury over
crime is the narrowing of the differences between the
parties. The Democrats have done the moving, and all of it's
to the right.
   Swept up in the martial metaphors of the "war" on drugs,
Democrats will come to the Senate floor with law-and-order
proposals they can call their own. (Electric-chair politics
haven't heated up yet in the House, but will before the end
of the year.)
   After floor speeches today, senators are scheduled to
begin battle over a hydraheaded bill introduced by Judiciary
Committee Chairman Joseph Biden (D., Del.). A blizzard of
amendments and substitutions will follow before a final vote.
Here are some of the possibilities:
   -- Death penalty. Participants across the political
spectrum agree that the final bill is likely to bring
long-dormant federal death statutes into conformity with
current Supreme Court requirements.
   The Biden package, borrowing language from conservative
Sen. Strom Thurmond (R., S.C.), would allow capital
punishment for 23 federal crimes. But in its current form,
the legislation wouldn't actually result in many executions.
For one thing, most of the crimes involved -- killing a
president or a Supreme Court justice, for example, or
deliberately causing a train wreck that results in death --
don't happen much.
   Also, the Biden bill comes with an amendment by Sen.
Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.) that would provide a defense
against execution in jurisdictions shown to have meted out
death sentences in a racist manner. Conservatives warn that
the amendment would do away with capital punishment, not only
at the federal level but in the 37 states where it's legal.
The reasons are the abundance of studies purporting to show
racial bias and prosecutors' huge burden of proving that
racial considerations didn't affect sentencing.
   As a result, you can expect a strong Republican effort to
strike the Kennedy amendment. In the same attack, GOP forces
are likely to try to add provisions for executing big-time
drug dealers, even in cases where prosecutors can't prove the
"kingpins" killed anybody.
   -- Death penalty appeals. Democrats have come to agree
with Republicans on the need to limit so-called habeas corpus
petitions, by which death-row residents may challenge the
constitutionality of their convictions or sentences --
typically in multiple, piecemeal federal appeals.
   In exchange for new restrictions, the Biden bill would
require states to provide lawyers who meet federal competence
standards at every stage of the criminal process. Republicans
would guarantee counsel -- if at all -- later in the appeals
process, and they wouldn't impose competence standards on the
states. More important, according to conservatives, the Biden
bill would open gaping loopholes, allowing repetitive
appeals. It would also reverse Supreme Court precedent to
allow inmates to take advantage of constitutional-law
decisions announced after their convictions.
   "I'd be surprised if 10 senators actually know the
differences" among the several conflicting habeas corpus
proposals, says one senior Democratic aide who does. The real
negotiations will take place among staff members, and the
danger in this murky area is that many lawmakers won't know
exactly what they're voting for.
   -- Gun control. The Democrats want to ban nine types of
semi-automatic weapons. Police groups and most public opinion
polls back such steps. The National Rifle Association
doesn't. The assault-weapons provision has a perilous future.
   -- Exclusionary rule. This judge-made rule barring use of
unconstitutionally gathered evidence, long an election-year
favorite, so far has been overshadowed by the death penalty
and habeas corpus debates. Part of the reason is that
Democratic protectors of the rule have given so much ground.
   The Biden bill would codify a major exception carved out
by the Supreme Court, which held in 1984 that where police
rely in "good faith" on a faulty search warrant, a judge may
admit the evidence found. Conservatives will try to extend
the exception for good-faith police violations to warrantless
searches, among other circumstances.
   One side-effect of the Biden approach, much appreciated by
otherwise bruised-and-reeling civil libertarians: Turning the
Supreme Court decision into a statute would inhibit the
justices from attempting further erosion of the exclusionary
rule.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Fletcher Challenge Ltd.:
   Canada Unit Plans to Make
   More Cuts in Pulp Output
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FCC.A A.FLC
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Fletcher Challenge Canada Ltd., Vancouver, British
Columbia, said it plans further reductions of kraft pulp
production at its British Columbia mills, in the face of
weakening market demand and growing inventories.
   A spokesman for the company, a unit of New Zealand-based
Fletcher Challenge Ltd., said the curtailments would reduce
kraft pulp output a total of about 36,000 metric tons. A
metric ton is equal to about 2,204.62 pounds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fletcher Challenge Canada said the curtailments include
the idling for a week, beginning yesterday, of one of two
pulp lines at its Crofton mill on Vancouver Island, and the
shutdown of the same line for four weeks in July. The
company's Elk Falls mill, also on Vancouver Island, already
curtailed output by about 3,000 metric tons a month. The
Mackenzie mill, in northern British Columbia, has been
operating "considerably below capacity" and is reviewing a
plan for idle time in the third quarter, the company said.
All three mills closed for varying periods earlier in the
year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Microsoft Isn't Giving Up
   On OS/2 Operating System
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MSFT
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   OS/2, the new PC operating system Microsoft announced for
IBM three years ago, today is an also-ran. It requires too
much computer memory, and some promised features haven't
arrived. It also can't run Windows applications.
   Microsoft has sold only a few hundred thousand copies of
OS/2. Mr. Gates seems to be trying to lower expectations for
it, saying he now expects it to coexist with the current PC
standard, MS-DOS, for years instead of replacing it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With IBM, Microsoft is at work on a new version of OS/2
that will run Windows. It will also make better use of the
most popular microprocessor, Intel's 80386. "We have to
provide a seamless, easy transition from the old to the new,"
says Microsoft president Jon Shirley. "That's something we've
failed to do in prior versions of OS/2." Mr. Gates insists
OS/2 will emerge later in the decade as the operating
software of choice for PC users.
   "People said we'd fail" with Windows, he says. "Now
they're saying we'll fail with OS/2. We won't."
   For Microsoft's sake, it better not. OS/2 is the only
operating system the company controls with as much power as
Unix, an older system created by American Telephone &amp;
Telegraph, which is the standard for engineering and
scientific computers and is slowly catching on with
white-collar workers.
   (See related story: "Operating System: Opening of
`Windows' Shows How Bill Gates Succeeds in Software ---
Microsoft Founder Bargains, Frets, Badgers Engineers and
Never Tires of Games --- An Early Zeal for Capitalism" -- WSJ
May 21, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Surge in Cocoa Price During Past Five Months
   May Continue Because of Unrest in Ivory Coast
   ----
   By Neil Behrmann
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Five months ago, cocoa prices were at their
lowest levels since the mid-1970s and the market was steeped
in gloom.
   Following a price surge of more than 50% during the past
five months, however, euphoria has supplanted depression.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite a huge world cocoa stockpile of 1,350,000 metric
tons -- equal to 61% of annual consumption, according to
estimates of merchants Gill &amp; Duffus Group Ltd. -- most
traders expect prices to continue rising. A metric ton is
2,204.62 pounds.
   Volumes and open interest in New York and London futures
markets "surpassed all previous records" in recent months,
Gill &amp; Duffus says, as speculative commodity funds jumped
into the market.
   "I cannot find a dealer who is pessimistic about the
market's prospects," says Robert Fish, managing director of
Primary Commodity Research Ltd., cocoa consultants. The
market is clearly overbought, he says. Yet there is so much
uncertainty about the political and economic outlooks in the
Ivory Coast, the world's biggest producer, that traders and
chocolate manufacturers don't dare buck the trend, Mr. Fish
says.
   Cocoa futures prices soared last week. On Friday, the July
futures traded at a life-of-contract high of $1,493 a ton in
New York; the contract fell back to finish at $1,477, up $30.
Earlier this month, the contract was at $1,225 a ton.
   Sparking the runup was news that Ivory Coast troops
surrounded the state's radio station, the presidential
residence and took over the airport in Abidjan, the capital,
demanding higher wages. After several hours they withdrew,
but the cocoa market remains jittery, dealers say.
   There is concern that following several violent
demonstrations this year, Ivory Coast President Felix
Houphouet-Boigny will resign and a new government would back
out of previously negotiated cocoa commitments.
   The Ivory Coast, which produces 625,000 tons of cocoa, or
26% of this year's world output, has already sold the
season's crop forward, dealers say. If a new government
decides to alter sales contracts, the market could be caught
short and prices could soar further, dealers say.
   Much will depend on Philipp Brothers Ltd., a U.S. trading
firm and a unit of Salomon Inc., which holds 400,000 tons of
cocoa bought from the Ivory Coast, dealers say. For the
moment, however, the firm doesn't appear to have any plans to
sell cocoa at present prices.
   World cocoa demand is likely to outpace production, and
prices could rise significantly during the next few years,
predicts Derek Chambers, head cocoa trader at Philipp
Brothers.
   Major chocolate factories don't have sufficient stocks, he
says, because they were conditioned to many years of low
prices. Moreover, Eastern Europe will be "a driving force
behind chocolate consumption this decade," he predicts.
Demand there will soar to around 660,000 metric tons by the
mid-1990s from present levels of 280,000 tons, Mr. Chambers
says.
   Eastern Europe could become a huge cocoa buyer, says Gill
&amp; Duffus in a report, but there is a "genuine risk that the
region's huge economic problems will prevent it from
realizing its potential in the short term." Yet output fell
from last season's record crop and annual consumption rose
38% from levels a decade ago, Gill &amp; Duffus says. So,
"fundamental changes" in the market "are promising."
   Still, there is a "great danger" that the recent price
rally will encourage premature optimism and forestall the
improvements to the balance of the market, the firm says.
   It is thus "too early to revise price expectations," Gill
&amp; Duffus says. The 164,000-ton projected surplus of
production over consumption is still "sizable" and world
stocks are "of record proportions."
   While dry weather could harm the present cocoa crops,
farmers in Africa and Brazil could produce more this year,
adds Peter Greenhalgh, an analyst at Landell Mills
Commodities Studies Ltd. Moreover if Ivory Coast exports
fall, Malaysia, another large producer, will be sufficiently
flexible to raise its exports, he says.
   Looking ahead to other commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Energy: Traders are expected to continue bailing out of
the June crude-oil futures contract, which goes off the board
at the end of tomorrow's trading day on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Friday's pattern of a small rally caused
by bargain-hunters followed by late aggressive selling might
repeat itself today and tomorrow, analysts said. The June
contract fell 11 cents Friday, to close at $18.76 a barrel.
Exchange officials, citing a computer error, corrected
earlier reports of an 11-cent drop. Once the June contract
expires, traders will turn their attention to the weekly
statistics from the American Petroleum Institute to see
whether last week's API report showing an unexpectedly large
buildup in crude was a fluke or the beginning of an extremely
bearish trend.

   Precious Metals: Platinum prices rose strongly last week,
and exploded with a $14-an-ounce advance Friday, carrying
silver and gold up with it. Traders this week will anxiously
wait to see if it is just a blip or a definite trend.
Increasing concern over reports of labor unrest at mines in
South Africa spurred rising prices early last week. Then
technical considerations took over, accelerating the advance.
On Friday, surges in demand for contracts occurred as the
July futures price rose above $496 an ounce and then above
$504. The contract crested at $508.50, falling back to $507
at the finish for a gain of $14.10. There were also reports
of increasing tensions between the Soviet Union and
Lithuania, which one analyst thought may have contributed
some support. For months the premium of platinum over gold
has held in a range of $110 to $112 an ounce, said William
O'Neill, vice president of research for Elders Futures Inc.,
New York. On Friday, however, this price spread widened to
more than $130 an ounce, he said. That was significant, he
observed, because, "Traditionally, the strength of platinum
in the spread with gold has been a leading indicator of
strength in precious metals generally."
                                                                                                       

   Grains and Soybeans: The weather will dominate the
attention of traders this week. A recent cold and rainy spell
delayed planting of corn and soybeans in parts of the
Midwest. However, some meteorologists are predicting better
chances for warm and dry weather this week, which would speed
planting and increase the chances of a full growing season
and good yields. If rainy weather continues to slow planting,
corn farmers might shift some of their acres into soybeans
because that crop can be planted later, said Richard A.
Loewy, president of AgResource Co., Chicago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Entergy Corp.:
   New Orleans Rejects Plan
   To Purchase Utility Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   ETR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Entergy Corp. said the New Orleans City Council voted to
reject a buy-out plan under which the city could have
acquired the company's New Orleans Public Service Inc. unit
and certain other properties for more than $700 million.
   The utility holding company previously said it would
rather not sell the assets. The buy-out plan was made under a
longstanding "perpetual right" held by the city allowing it
to purchase New Orleans Public Service assets at any time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the proposal, the utility would have become city
property, but Entergy management would have continued to
operate it for five years. New Orleans Public Service
provides electricity to about 192,000 customers and gas to
about 159,000 customers in that city.
   A proposed financing package called for the issuance of
more than $850 million of revenue bonds, on which payments
would be about $8 million a month for 20 years. A council
advisory committee estimated that consumers would save about
$8 a month under the plan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Foreign Bonds Rally 'Round the Globe
   ---
   Merged Germanys
   Will Test Market
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   OI HCA MZ RJR FREST EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bond markets world-wide are starting to spring
back to life after a long and painful slide.
   Bond prices this month have climbed around the world, due
in part to a rebound in foreign currencies against the U.S.
dollar and perceptions that interest rates in most countries
may have peaked. Meanwhile, investors are flocking to mutual
funds that buy bonds in countries from France to Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ticket to how long the rally lasts may be West
Germany, where forecasts of higher interest rates remain
common.
   Last week's prices of British government bonds surged in
the biggest rally in 2 1/2 years with prices of long-term
bonds rising as much as four points, a gain of about 40
pounds for a bond with a #1,000 face amount.
   "This has been the best month for international bonds
since July 1989," said Victor S. Filatov, an executive vice
president at J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. So far in May, he said, the
total returns on foreign bonds have outperformed U.S. bonds
by an average of four percentage points.
   When measured in U.S. dollars, British government bonds
have produced a total return of 8.52% so far this month,
according to J.P. Morgan. That compares with total returns of
7.39% for Japanese bonds, 3.16% for Australian bonds and
2.29% for French bonds and 2.01% for U.S. bonds.
   These high total returns were due in part to a significant
decline in the value of the U.S. dollar on foreign-exchange
markets. For example, at the beginning of May when it took
159 yen to buy one U.S. dollar, a Japanese bond valued at
100,000 yen would have cost $629. But last week, after the
dollar had fallen to 153 yen, the value of that same bond
rose to $654 due to currency exchange. But in addition to
currency gains, investors in foreign bonds also have enjoyed
large capital gains as bond prices rose.
   The turnaround in the global bond market is just beginning
to show up in mutual fund performance statistics. According
to Lipper Analytical Services, world income mutual funds --
which invest primarily in U.S. and non-U.S. fixed-income
securities -- eked out a small total return of just 0.15% for
the week ended May 3. That was a big change, however, from
the previous week when the funds turned in a total return of
negative 0.45%.
   But whether the global bond rally continues depends
largely upon events still developing in West Germany, which
is in the process of merging with East Germany. The cost of
reunification between the two countries will be enormous.
Economists believe West Germany will issue record amounts of
new bonds to finance the union with financially troubled East
Germany. There's also inflationary potential in the currency
combination.
   To attract buyers for the new bonds, economists say, West
Germany probably will be forced this year to boost bond
yields to 9.5% from a current level of around 8.5%.
   "We are a little nervous about the path of European
rates," because of West Germany, said David Boardman, a
portfolio manager at Rowe Price Fleming International Inc.,
London. If West German rates rise, "it could stop the French
market from rallying further," he said. Interest rates in
many European countries track West German rates.
   Such concerns haven't kept investors -- both large and
small -- from diving back into global bonds. Mr. Boardman
said his international mutual fund, which caters primarily to
U.S. investors, has been getting $1 million to $2 million in
assets each day -- a sign that investors believe that
international bonds offer a great deal of promise.
   Mr. Filatov also notices a changing attitude among U.S.
investors toward foreign bonds. "The political and economic
uncertainties kept many investors on the sidelines" for most
of the year, he said. "The uncertainty is going away and
investors are beginning to find the fundamentals very
appealing."
   Mr. Boardman isn't expanding his position in most European
bonds. Instead, he's moving into Australia and New Zealand.
"These markets were beaten up pretty bad last year but now
are benefiting from falling interest rates due to lower
inflation expectations." Investors in these bonds also get
high current yield, because interest rates -- while falling
-- are still much higher than in many European countries.
Yields on Australia's benchmark 10-year government bond, for
example, have fallen 1/4 percentage point in the past few
weeks but remain at a lofty 13.50%.
   Thomas Prapas, managing director of fixed-income
investments at Clemente Capital Corp., likes French, Spanish,
Irish, Swedish and Italian bonds. "All those markets are
attractive. Most of these countries have inflation that has
been coming down, while West Germany's is going up," he said.
Mr. Prapas agrees with other analysts that events in West
Germany could hurt these markets in the short term. But he
says, "we're looking at this market over the next six months.
If West Germany decides to raise interest rates, that will
hurt a little bit in the near term, but the long-term looks
very good."
   At Salomon Brothers Inc., international analysts are
preaching caution. In its latest report on the global market,
Salomon said the May rally "may soon enter a consolidation
phase." The principal exception is Britain, where bond market
sentiment could remain euphoric. Salomon said yields on
Britain's 10-year notes "could test 11.50%." The yield, which
was 13% at the end of April, was 12% on Friday.
   Britain's bond-market rally was triggered by reports that
the United Kingdom might be on the verge of joining the
"exchange rate mechanism" of the European Monetary System --
an agreement designed to stabilize European Community
currencies.
   To become a member, some analysts believe that Britain
must reduce inflation, which has been running between 7% and
10% in recent years but was running at an annual rate of 9.4%
in April.
   Last week's rally in the British government securities
market capped a steady climb in the market that has pushed
yields one percentage point lower in one month. However, some
analysts are skeptical about any near-term entry of sterling
into the ERM and contend the recent rally has been overdone.
   The British rally also was supported by a labor report
that said that U.K. unemployment rose in April for the first
time since 1986.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Buyers flooded the junk bond market, sparking the
strongest rally that market has had in weeks.
   Most junk bonds, high-yielding speculative-grade
securities with low credit ratings or no credit ratings at
all, gained between 1/2 point to 3/4 point. That was an
impressive showing considering prices of investment-grade
corporate bonds and most Treasury securities fell between 1/4
and 1/2 point.
   Buying interest in junk was broadbased, and included a
wide variety of issues.
   Among the leading winners: the pay-in-kind bonds of RJR
Nabisco Inc. The tobacco and food company's 14.07%
convertible pay-in-kind debentures chalked up one point to
end at 84 1/8.
   The other widely held RJR issue, the 14.07% exchangeable
debentures, due in 2007, climbed 1 3/8 to end at 71.
   Also higher were recently depressed bonds of R.H. Macy &amp;
Co. Macy's 14 1/2% senior subordinated debentures, maturing
in 1998, advanced 1 1/2 points to 75 1/2, and its 14 1/2%
subordinated debentures, due in 2001, added 1 1/2 points to
end at 65 1/2.
   But investors said liquidity in the $200 billion market
remains a problem.
   "It's all bids and no offereds," said Dan Smith, a
portfolio manager at Lisle, Ill.-based Van Kampen Merritt
Inc. "You'll start out 96 1/2 bid and none offered, and
prices will creep up till you get a two-sided market."
   Junk-bond prices rose steadily during all of last week as
prospects of declining interest rates have heartened
junk-bond investors.
   According to First Boston Corp.'s high-yield index,
junk-bond issues have generated a 2% total return so far this
month. Advancing issues outnumbered declining issues by a
ratio of two to one, First Boston said.
   Sam DeRosa-Farag, a high-yield analyst at First Boston,
said zero-coupon bonds continued to outperform cash-paying
bonds this month.
   "Zero-coupon bonds tend to have higher returns in a bull
market and worse returns in a bear market," said Mr.
DeRosa-Farag. Strength in zero-coupon bonds is often
considered a gauge of investor confidence. When investors are
less skittish about the market, they are more inclined to
invest in junior securities like zero-coupon and pay-in-kind
bonds.
   Among the zero-coupon issues that gained Friday were
Hospital Corp. of America bonds, which moved up one point to
end at 71, and Owens-Illinois Inc.'s zero-coupon bonds, which
surged 1 1/2 points to end at 50 1/2. Bonds of both Hospital
Corp. and Owens-Illinois have advanced this week on positive
earnings reports.
   In the Treasury market, bond prices ended as much as 1/2
point lower in quiet trading.
   Friday's quiet trading stood in sharp contrast to hectic
dealing a week earlier that saw the new bellwether 30-year
bond surge more than 2 points.
   In late trading, the benchmark bond was quoted at 100
18/32, down 1/2 point on the day to yield 8.69%. In
when-issued trading activity, the new two-year notes to be
auctioned Wednesday were quoted to yield 8.62%, up slightly
from 8.58% on Thursday. The new five-year notes to be
auctioned Thursday were quoted at a yield of 8.69%, up from
8.64%.
   The price slide started late in the morning when the
Federal Reserve executed weekend matched sale-purchase
agreements, a technical trading operation that drains
reserves out of the banking system and tends to keep interest
rates up. Investors saw the move as an effort on the Fed's
part to keep the closely watched federal funds rate near the
Fed's widely perceived 8 1/4% target level. The rate is what
banks charge each other on short-term loans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters -- OTC Focus:
   Investors in Small OTC Stocks Face Delisting Dilemma
   ----
   By Barbara Donnelly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MSFT MAWS TFONY CMEDD CMFLV CCLR
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Small may be beautiful -- but not on the over-the-counter
market these days. The National Association of Securities
Dealers recently announced plans to tighten its listing
requirements early next year, removing hundreds of the
market's smallest stocks from its Nasdaq automated trading
system.
   That creates a quandary for individuals who own small OTC
shares. Should they sell stocks that are likely to be
delisted, or should they hang on?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Delisting would relegate the stocks to a much more obscure
part of the market, making them even tougher to trade and
harder to follow than they are now, professionals say. As a
result, individual investors, who are by far the dominant
players in these illiquid shares, may see their holdings drop
sharply in value, at least in the near term.
   "The few stocks I've traded that got knocked off the
(Nasdaq) system really suffered precipitous price drops,"
said Norman Kadehjian, an OTC trader at Josephthal &amp; Co.
"I've been surprised at the tremendous damage" delisting can
bring, he said.
   Of course, delisted stocks won't fall into total oblivion.
They'll trade on the NASD's new "electronic bulletin board"
and also on the so-called pink sheets, price lists published
daily on pink paper by New Jersey-based National Quotation
Bureau Inc., a unit of Commerce Clearing House Inc.
   The first rule for investors in stocks that face
delisting, professionals say, is to avoid a knee-jerk
response. "Don't panic out," said Lawrence J. Goldstein,
general partner of Santa Monica Partners in New York and an
active investor in fitfully traded OTC stocks. "If you're
happy with the company, even though it may suffer a setback
in market value in the short run (as a result of delisting),
in the long run value will out."
   Still, the pros do stress that this is a time to review
portfolios and to cast a hard eye on those cheap stocks that
may be languishing forgotten at $1 or less a share.
   Many investors in such "penny stocks" didn't start out
that way, but simply stood by as their shares drifted down in
price over the years. "These price levels suggest a lot of
people just forgot about these stocks or are just too
embarrassed to sell them, in which case this may be an
opportunity to take the tax loss," said Boniface Zaino, a
managing director at Trust Co. of the West. "You've got to
have a very strong conviction to hold these kinds of stocks,"
he said, otherwise, "it's best to sell."
   The revised listing standards won't be written in stone
until they get the final goahead from the Securities and
Exchange Commission, expected later this year. But NASD
officials say they don't anticipate any significant changes
in their proposal.
   If approved as is, the plan would require all
Nasdaq-listed stocks to have: a "bid," or selling, price of
at least $1 (there is no price requirement currently); at
least $2 million in assets (up from $750,000); capital and
surplus of at least $1 million (up from $375,000); two firms
that make a market in the shares (instead of one); and
"public float," or shares in the public's hands, with a
market value of at least $200,000 (there is no float
requirement now).
   More than 950 companies fail to meet at least one of those
criteria, according to research by Salomon Brothers Inc.;
some 725 of them, with a market value of over $3 billion,
don't measure up on price alone. NASD officials estimate,
however, that about 500 companies won't pass muster by the
time the new rules take effect.
   Once a stock is delisted, it would have to meet even
stiffer requirements to get back on the Nasdaq system,
including a minimum bid price of $3 a share.
   Just because a company may be a likely candidate for
delisting doesn't necessarily mean it's a bad investment.
"There are legitimate, good low-priced stocks," said Anthony
Broy, president of Hill Thompson Magid &amp; Co., which makes
markets in OTC shares. "To penalize them all, I personally
think is throwing out the baby with the bath water."
   But fear of potential delisting has already hurt many
small stocks since the NASD board announced the revised
listing standards in March. "A lot of these stocks are going
down in price because people are not trading them" in advance
of the rule changes, said Robert Flaherty, editor of OTC
Review magazine.
   For instance, Nasdaq stocks that sell for less than $1 a
share underperformed the rest of the Nasdaq market by about
three percentage points in March and April, the Salomon
Brothers research shows. They lagged despite a heavy
concentration in sectors such as technology and health care
"that otherwise should have performed quite well," said Eric
Sorensen, Salomon's director of quantitative research.
"People just seem to have backed away" from cheap stocks
since the rules became public, he said.
   Many OTC specialists say that much sharper price declines
can be expected in the months to come. "These stocks will
definitely go down with delisting. I'd stake anything on
that," said Walter Carucci, president of Carr Securities, an
OTC market-maker. "As it gets closer to the date, this will
become more and more of a factor" in performance, he
predicted.
   Meanwhile, many low-priced stocks are scrambling to avoid
delisting by means of reverse stocks splits. Carom Capital
Corp. said the pending Nasdaq changes were the primary reason
behind its 1-for-4 reverse split in early May. Carom
shareholders have seen their stakes increase in value by
almost 17% since the split.
   But reverse splits won't necessarily benefit investors. In
fact, traders say, the general rule is that such maneuvers
erode -- not build -- shareholder value. "With 25 years of
experience, I can tell you that unless the company hires an
investment banker or something to drum up interest, when a
reverse split takes place, the price always goes down," said
Carr's Mr. Carucci.
   Consider Compuflight Inc. and Cybermedic Inc. The two
small OTC companies have each lost about 30% of shareholder
value since recent reverse splits.
   Investors who decide to brave delisting will have a much
harder time getting information about their investments once
they fall off Nasdaq. "They'll have much less visibility
because there won't be the (market) float or sponsorship for
the press to cover them, and brokers won't hype them now,"
said OTC Review's Mr. Flaherty.
   Even though the stocks will be on Nasdaq's bulletin board,
investors won't be able to look up the prices in the
newspaper, and even their brokers will have to call dealers
for quotes. And the dealers won't be obliged, as they are
now, to stand behind those quotes when brokers actually want
to execute a trade.
   Less visibility and more uncertainty will tend to reduce
liquidity, widening the spread between bid and asked prices,
which means these stocks will be more expensive to trade. It
also means that individuals will have to be shrewder and to
shop around more to get a fair shake on price.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks zoomed past exchange-listed issues
in the year's busiest trading session.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 2.57 points, or 0.6%, to
448.31, bucking the 0.4% decline in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average.
   Volume jumped to a daily record for the year of 191.4
million shares, up from 171.4 million. Advancing stocks
outpaced decliners 1,060 to 872, as 156 shares climbed to new
highs and 75 hit new lows.
   Peter Da Puzzo, co-head of world-wide equities for
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., said he continues to see signs
that investors are buying smaller stocks in expectation that
the OTC market will catch up with the recent gains of the Dow
Jones industrials.
   Telefonos de Mexico, Mexico's nationwide telephone
company, weighed in with more than 17.6 million American
depositary receipts changing hands. David Learned, sales
manager of foreign equities trading at Shearson, cited the
recent approval by Mexico's lower house of congress of a plan
to privatize the nation's banks. Some investors are
speculating that the Mexican government will eventually sell
its remaining portion of Telefonos to the public, Mr. Learned
said. He added that some investors also are more optimistic
about the Mexican economy. Telefonos rose 1/32 to 1 11/16.
   In other activity, Microsoft jumped 3 1/2 to 68 1/4 after
Cowen &amp; Co. analyst Michele S. Preston "aggressively"
recommended purchase of the stock. Tomorrow, Microsoft is due
to unveil its long-awaited Windows 3.0 software program.
   Ms. Preston said in an interview that she believes
combined revenue for the new product and related software
could exceed $1 billion in the next year. She also raised her
earnings estimate for Microsoft's fiscal 1991 ending June 30
to $3.50 a share from $3 a share.
   Investors flocked to an initial public offering by
Mid-American Waste Systems, a non-hazardous solid waste
management business based in Winchester, Ohio. Priced at $24
a share, Mid-American jumped 4 1/2 to 28 1/2 on volume of
more than 3.6 million shares in its first day of trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   San Juan Basin Royalty Trust
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   SJT
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN JUAN BASIN ROYALTY TRUST said it won't pay a cash
distribution to stock of record May 31, because expenses
exceeded revenue by about $180,000. The Fort Worth,
Texas-based trust said it has been notified that royalty
income may be negative or negligible for the next several
months because of the cost for anticipated drilling of coal
seam natural gas wells, low seasonal demand for natural gas
and seasonally depressed natural gas prices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gold's the Way to Cut Interest Costs
   ----
   By Charles Kadlec
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Why aren't interest rates on U.S. government bonds below
5%, just as they were for 88 out of the 90 years before 1967?
   This is the key question facing the administration, the
Federal Reserve, Congress, economists, corporate executives
and civil rights leaders. But low and stable interest rates
seem so remote that the question appears irrelevant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lower interest rates would do more than any government
bailout to restore stability to our financial system. If
mortgage rates dropped to 5% from today's 10.5%, mortgage
payments would fall by more than 40%, making housing more
affordable to all while spurring sales of now-empty
condominiums. Distressed borrowers would have a better chance
of meeting their debt service payments, restoring solvency to
the S&amp;Ls and banks.
   Lower interest rates would provide real debt relief to
developing countries. If interest rates were four percentage
points lower, Mexico's interest payments would be cut three
times more than they will be by this year's restructuring
agreement between Mexico and its creditors. Debt relief would
help restore economic growth in Latin America.
   With lower interest rates, economic growth would
accelerate, and employment would follow. Capital investments
would be easier to finance, improving American
competitiveness. These benefits are especially important for
the least sophisticated and skilled workers, people least
able to cope with an economy whipsawed by high and unstable
interest rates.
   And let's not forget the biggest debtor of them all -- the
U.S. government, which owes the public $2.3 trillion. A four
percentage point reduction in interest rates would reduce
interest payments by more than $90 billion a year, freeing
resources for domestic programs and eliminating any argument
for tax increases.
   What is it that the monetary authorities in the U.S. and
elsewhere used to do to produce low and stable interest rates
for so long that we are no longer doing?
   For most of the 90 years of low interest rates, the U.S.
was on a gold standard. But in 1967, the U.S. began to
abandon its commitment to dollar/gold convertibility. Then
President Nixon closed the "gold window" in 1971. Ever since,
the interest rate on long government bonds has been above 5%.
   The key to the gold standard's success is that it produced
trust in the future buying power of the dollar. When people
exchange goods or services for dollars, they do so trusting
that someone else, in turn, will accept the dollars in
exchange for goods and services. When people lend dollars,
they lend because they trust that they will be repaid in
money that will be exchangeable into goods. The more they
doubt that money will maintain its buying power, the higher
the interest rate they will charge for the loan.
   A gold standard works to produce trust because it provides
a standard by which people can assess whether or not the
monetary authorities are keeping their promise. By contrast,
the efforts by the Fed to "do its best" to fight inflation
with a system based on a plethora of variables simply demands
people's trust, without any criterion to assess Fed
performance. Good intentions do not constitute a promise.
   The gold standard also provides an unambiguous rule of
action. The monetary authorities altered the quantity of
money in order to maintain a stable rate of exchange between
the dollar and gold.
   Beginning in the mid-1980s, several Fed Board members have
spoken of using a basket of commodities as a proxy for the
overall price level. The proposed rule of action was to
maintain the rate of exchange between the dollar and this
index within a band of plus or minus 10%. That suggestion
seems to have been followed. Various commodity indices,
including the CRB Index and Journal of Commerce Index, have
been, with few exceptions, within such a band since early
1987.
   But the Fed has failed to make a public commitment to
maintain this commodity standard. Talk about using commodity
prices to guide actions are one thing. Identifying a
commodity index and specifying the bands to which the Fed is
willing to be held accountable is quite another. Without a
public commitment, people cannot assess what promises, if
any, will be kept. Today, the CRB Index is approaching the
top side of the tacit price band.
   Without an explicit commitment by the Fed to maintain the
buying power of the dollar, doubts over its future grow. The
results are speculative excesses driving interest rates to
and fro, and today's high and costly interest rates.
   Trust in the future value of money will bring interest
rates back down below 5%. The Fed has demonstrated it has the
tools and rules of action to inspire this trust. What is
needed now is the wisdom and leadership to declare and
implement a new commodity standard for the dollar.
   ---
   Mr. Kadlec is a vice president of J. &amp; W. Seligman &amp; Co.,
a New York investment company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook --
   Up for Grabs:
   State Industries
   ----
   By Peter Truell
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM EUROP FORGN TFONY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Want to buy a stake in Hungary's airline or
a piece of Argentina's telephone company? Both may be
possible in the near future, as the countries of Latin
America and Eastern Europe turn increasingly toward selling
off bloated state industries as a way out of dire economic
straits.
   In the struggle to attract both capital and know-how, the
money-hungry nations of these two battered regions see
"privatization" as their best hope for the future. They are
struggling to set aside national sensitivities about foreign
ownership, and are looking for ways to allow foreign as well
as local concerns to buy into their state-run companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Jumping on the trend, Wall Street investment bankers like
Morgan Stanley's Peter Jones and First Boston's Pedro-Pablo
Kuczynski have already spent months jetting around Latin
America and Eastern Europe to win mandates to sell off the
more marketable government assets.
   Many people see privatization as the key to the future
success of economies in the two regions. "I don't see any
prospect for substantial change unless there is massive
privatization," says Shahid Hussein, the World Bank's vice
president for Latin America. But the process must be closely
managed, he cautions, noting that "you have to be very
careful that you don't substitute private monopolies for
public monopolies."
                                                                                                       

   In addition, there's a fear that graft will creep into the
process. Leaders may decide to parcel out state assets to
their cronies, causing even greater concentrations of wealth
and inequality. "In any kind of massive sale like this, when
these countries are under a lot of pressure . . . there's a
concern about corruption," says consultant Alan Stoga of
Kissinger Associates. "It depends on the leaders' ability to
control it."
                                                                                                       

   Perhaps the biggest concern of all is that foreign
investors will simply steer clear of the state offerings.
"What if these countries give a party," asks Mr. Stoga, "and
no one comes?"
   Despite these worries, there is a growing desire to shrink
the state in Latin America and in Eastern Europe. Mexico has
already sold off its two largest airlines, while Chile has
sold off state power stations and financial institutions.
Hungary sold its state-owned light bulb maker, Tungsram, to
Austrian bank Girozentrale, which is the only major East
European sell-off to date.
   The process has barely begun, analysts say. "The major
cases of privatization are still ahead of us," says Mr.
Hussein, adding that Eastern Europe is better positioned than
Latin America to take advantage of the trend. "The Western
European countries," he says, "are joining together to make
sure the reform effort doesn't fail" in Eastern Europe.
   Privatization is intimately linked to the need to boost
investment. The governments lack sufficient funds or
creditworthiness to attract the money needed to keep
inefficient state concerns afloat. As Mr. Salinas said on his
last visit to Washington, "We'd rather spend the money on
education, health and basic services. We can't afford to do
that and still carry out expensive projects like modernizing
our telephone system."
   Indeed, the economic success of Mr. Salinas's presidency
rests partly on the successful completion of selling the
government's 55% stake in Telefonos Mexicanos, the national
telephone company. That transaction, expected late this
summer, is likely to be the largest Mexican privatization,
with the whole company's value estimated at about $7 billion.
   Like Margaret Thatcher's landmark sale of British Telecom
PLC, the Telmex sale will be a gauge of the level of investor
interest in state assets, and a test case for the
government's argument that privatization produces greater
efficiencies and stanches the hemorrhage of state funds
needed to keep such concerns solvent.
   The biggest challenge may be overcoming sensitivities
about foreign investment, both in gringo-obsessed Latin
America and in democratizing Eastern Europe. In Hungary, the
Tungsram sale has already brought widespread criticism,
because Girozentrale turned around within months of
purchasing the company and sold it to General Electric Co. of
the U.S. for almost three times the original price. In Latin
America, the prospect that banks like Citicorp will end up
owning major assets by swapping bank debt for equity also
raises hackles.
                                                                                                       

   On a recent visit to Washington, Czechoslovak finance
minister Vaclav Klaus outlined an unusual approach to the
matter of foreign investors. His plan would give Czechoslovak
citizens first crack at least at some of the state assets.
The state would issue certificates to citizens that they
could either exchange for shares in the privatization of
their choice or sell to other local investors. Only after
this process is completed would foreign investors be allowed
to buy in.
                                                                                                       

   But the scheme has its critics. In the end Czechoslovakia,
like many countries, may decide foreign capital is so
desperately needed that it should be invited in at once.
   In fact, the more bankrupt the country, the more eager it
seems to be to start privatization rolling. In hard-pressed
Argentina, President Carlos Saul Menem is aggressively
pursuing a privatization plan. The national telephone
company, Empresa Nacional de Telecommunicaciones, or ENTEL,
will be an early target. The national railroad may soon
follow.
   "The government loses $2 million a day on the railways,"
says Mr. Stoga. "You need to get rid of holes in the budget
like that."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Interlake Corp.:
   Firm Sells Arwood Assets
   To Unit of Wyman-Gordon
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6H
</SO>
<CO>
   IK WYMN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Interlake Corp. said it completed the sale of its Arwood
investment casting unit's assets to a Wyman-Gordon Co. unit,
for about $54 million.
   Interlake, an Oak Brook, Ill.-maker of engineered
materials and handling and packaging systems, said proceeds
from the sale were used to prepay bank debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Arwood had 1989 sales of about $89 million; Interlake's
overall sales were $912.9 million. Investment casting is a
process which produces a highly finished product that
requires little additional processing.
   Interlake last year borrowed heavily in a
recapitalization, including a special dividend to
shareholders that is generally thought to have deflected any
interest from what was then seen as a potential suitor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Peabody Holding Co.:
   Amax Inc. Will Not Make
   Another Takeover Proposal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   AMX HAN NEM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Amax Inc., New York, said it won't make any takeover
proposal for Peabody Holding Co. other than the $1.25 billion
bid it made several days ago.
   Amax's proposal was immediately topped by Hanson PLC,
which holds 45% of Peabody, the largest U.S. coal producer.
In March, Hanson agreed to buy the 55% it doesn't hold from
Newmont Mining Corp. for $715 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Amax's bid valued the 55% Peabody stake at $718.5 million,
just a bit more than Hanson's plan. After Amax's bid was
announced, Hanson boosted its offer to $725.6 million.
   "Amax's offer for Peabody was within our range of value
for the company," said Allen Born, Amax's chairman, president
and chief executive officer. The metals and energy company
"will continue to pursue and evaluate opportunities in its
energy businesses that have a good strategic fit for us and
will enhance the level and balance of future earnings."
   Many investors on Wall Street had doubted Amax would enter
a bidding war over Peabody. Hanson has interests in tobacco,
specialty chemicals, building products and mining, including
49% of Newmont Mining, Denver.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Alps Electric Co.:
   Pretax Profit Rose 64.3%,
   Net Edged Up 0.1% in Year
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.ALP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Alps Electric Co., one of Japan's leading electronic parts
manufacturers, posted a 64.3% gain in unconsolidated pretax
profit for the fiscal year ended March 31.
   Pretax profit swelled to 11.98 billion yen ($78.7 million)
in fiscal 1989, compared with 7.29 billion yen the year
before, as a 2.3% rise in total sales boosted operating
profit, the company said. Operating profit surged 80.9% to
11.99 billion yen from 6.63 billion yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But net income rose only 0.1% to 6.073 billion yen from
6.065 billion yen, largely because in fiscal 1988,
extraordinary profits helped boost otherwise weak net
earnings. Extraordinary profits fell 49.5% in fiscal 1989 to
2.24 billion yen from 4.43 billion yen the year before.
   Overall sales reached 313.96 billion yen in fiscal 1989,
up from 306.93 billion yen the year before. Company officials
cited booming demand for components of compact disc players,
car stereos and radio cassette stereos. However, with
increased overseas production of color television sets and
videocassette recorders, parts sales in this category were
significantly lower.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- All American Television Inc.:
   Scotti Brothers to Acquire
   42.5% of Shares Outstanding
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ALLT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Scotti Brothers Entertainment Industries Inc., a privately
held entertainment concern in Los Angeles, said it reached an
option agreement which gives Scotti the right to acquire
42.5% of the shares outstanding of All American Television
Inc.
   All American Television Inc., based in New York, is
engaged in the distribution of television programming and the
sale of commercial time to advertisers. Scotti said the
agreement, reached with certain principal shareholders of All
American, gives Scotti the right to acquire all of their
shares at a price of $6.25 a share. The agreement further
stipulates that not less than $3.50 a share will be paid in
cash, and the balance in securities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The option agreement contemplates a merger, business
combination or similar transaction between Scotti and All
American, the companies said. Scotti Brothers may not
exercise the option unless it offers to acquire all of the
stock of All American owned by public shareholders on terms
at least as favorable as those given to the company's
principal holders, the companies said.
   Scotti Brothers' exercise of the option is also
conditional, among other things, upon All American's
satisfying certain financial conditions. The option agreement
expires Aug. 16, unless extended, and if exercised, the
closing must occur by Dec. 14, 1990, subject to extension.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- EnviroSource Inc.:
   Firm Decides Not to Start
   Talks on Envirosafe Swap
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6D
</SO>
<CO>
   ENVI ENSO
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   EnviroSource Inc. said it has decided not to initiate
negotiations in connection with a tax-free stock-swap
transaction involving Envirosafe Services Inc.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
EnviroSource, which holds a 62.5% stake in Envirosafe, said
it made the decision due to "market conditions and other
factors."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   EnviroSource had planned to seek such a transaction last
January.
   Envirosafe is based in King of Prussia, Pa., and
EnviroSource is based in Stamford, Conn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Thornburgh Knew
   Lie-Detector Tests
   Hurt 2 of His Aides
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Attorney General Dick Thornburgh failed to
disclose that his top personal aide, Robert Ross, had shown
deception on part of a lie-detector test during a
controversial internal Justice Department investigation, a
senior department official said.
   Mr. Ross's flunking part of the lie-detector test was "one
consideration" in his decision, announced last Monday, to
resign from the department, according to the senior official.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Thornburgh has known since late last fall that Mr.
Ross and another personal aide, David Runkel, had shown
deception on lie-detector tests but chose not to disclose the
matter "because something like that can ruin careers," said
the senior official, who was designated by the attorney
general's office yesterday to answer press questions on the
issue. Mr. Runkel has repeatedly refused to comment.
   Mr. Ross couldn't be reached for comment. Previously, he
and other Justice Department officials have said his imminent
departure and Mr. Runkel's reassignment to less prominent
duties were part of a personnel shake-up having nothing to do
with the internal Justice Department investigation.
   Interviewed yesterday on ABC's "This Week with David
Brinkley," Mr. Thornburgh denied a report in the Los Angeles
Times that he "helped conceal" Mr. Ross's deception to
protect his longtime personal assistant.
   The lie-detector tests were administered as part of a
departmentwide criminal probe into who had disclosed the
existence of an investigation involving the office of Rep.
William Gray (D., Pa.). The disclosure of the Gray
investigation last May prompted accusations that it was a
Republican effort to undermine the congressman's ultimately
successful race to become the No. 3 official in the House
Democratic leadership.
   Mr. Thornburgh in December announced that the internal
department review, conducted by Federal Bureau of
Investigation agents and Criminal Division prosecutors,
produced "insufficient evidence" for a criminal prosecution
or disciplinary action against current Justice Department
employees.
   The senior department official who spoke yesterday said
that the deception indicated by the lie-detector tests of
Messrs. Ross and Runkel produced "leads" but that those leads
yield "no evidence" that either man was the source of the
Gray disclosure.
   Mr. Thornburgh has conceded that Mr. Runkel effectively
confirmed the disclosure about Mr. Gray to the CBS television
reporter who broadcast the first report on the matter.
   The senior department official said that at least some of
the questions put to Mr. Ross as part of the lie-detector
test "were relevant" directly to the Gray disclosure, as
opposed to being control questions on other matters. The
attorney general and his aides "were aware there would be
some embarrassment" if it became known that Messrs. Ross and
Runkel had shown deception, the senior official said.
   Asked directly why Mr. Thornburgh didn't disclose the
lie-detector test results at the same time that he exonerated
his aides, the senior official responded: "That assumes an
obligation to disclose {the test results}. . . . That's
debatable."
   In a separate review of the entire matter, the Justice
Department's solicitor general, Kenneth Starr, concluded that
Mr. Thornburgh had acted appropriately within his discretion.
   Subsequently, Senate Judiciary Chairman Joseph Biden of
Delaware, a Democratic spokesman on the Gray affair, said he
was satisfied that "any further investigation of this matter
would not provide any further information and therefore is
not warranted."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE U.S. AND SOVIETS REACHED a partial pre-summit accord
on arms.
   After four days of superpower talks in Moscow, Soviet
President Gorbachev and Secretary of State Baker agreed on
treaty language to reduce long-range nuclear missile
arsenals. The U.S. and the Soviet Union also agreed to
destroy most of their chemical weapons. The moves make it
likely that Bush and Gorbachev will be able to declare the
missile treaty substantially complete, and next week's summit
in Washington a political success.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lithuanian lawmakers rejected Gorbachev's demand that the
republic suspend its independence declaration, but planned to
offer a compromise today.
   ---
   ROMANIANS VOTED in free elections, and Iliescu appeared
headed to win.
   In the first multiparty elections in 53 years, as many as
16 million registered voters cast ballots to choose a
president and 506 representatives to Romania's Parliament.
Computer projections based on exit polls showed interim
President Iliescu capturing about 80% of the vote for
president, with the National Salvation Front, which has ruled
since Ceausescu was toppled in December, winning the
parliamentary balloting.
   Romanian opposition leaders alleged irregularities in the
elections and said they would contest the official results,
which are to be released this week.
   ---
   AN ISRAELI KILLED unarmed Arabs, sparking riots in the
occupied lands.
   In what was considered one of the bloodiest days since a
Palestinian uprising began 29 months ago, a gunman who was
dishonorably discharged from the army killed seven laborers
and wounded 11 other people in a town about 10 miles
southeast of Tel Aviv. He was arrested. Outraged Arabs
rampaged through the West Bank and Gaza Strip in rioting that
left seven more Palestinians dead. Arab leaders said the
incident could rekindle the flagging revolt against Israel.
   Israel's leaders condemned the attack on the workers and
urged calm as the army imposed curfews confining 1.1 million
Palestinians to their homes.
   ---
   South Korean police clashed with about 10,000
demonstrators who rampaged through the southern city of
Kwangju for a third consecutive day. As many as 200 people
have been arrested in the protests, which began Friday to
mark the 10th anniversary of an anti-government uprising in
the provincial city that was crushed by the military.
   ---
   Bush is expected to notify Congress this week that the
U.S. is renewing China's most-favored-nation trade status for
a year, administration officials said. The notification is
likely to be accompanied by a declaration that the trade
status could be revoked if the U.S. is unsatisfied with the
Beijing government's human-rights performance.
                                                                                                       

   Taiwan's President Lee called for better ties with Beijing
as a first step toward eventual unification with the
mainland, a break with the ruling Nationalist Party's
40-year-old policy. In Beijing, police tightened security,
but the capital was calm on the first anniversary of the
imposition of martial law that preceded last year's
crackdown.
   ---
   The Hubble Space Telescope snapped its first photographs
of the universe, relaying pictures of a star cluster about
1,260 light years from Earth. The orbiting device has been
plagued by software problems, jittery hardware and human
error since its launch April 24 by the space shuttle
Discovery.
   ---
   Gorbachev has called for legalizing private ownership of
houses and residential lots, challenging a 73-year-old
Communist law that stipulates state ownership of such
property. The official Tass news agency said the Kremlin
leader announced the proposal Saturday in an attempt to solve
a critical housing shortage in the Soviet Union.
   ---
   East and West Germany signed a treaty to merge the two
German economies and social systems on July 2. Also Friday,
Bonn's Finance Ministry unveiled a second 1990 supplementary
budget of $2.88 billion, including a provision to rescue East
Germany's tottering unemployment and pension systems.
   ---
   A federal grand jury was convened Friday in an attempt to
wrap up the Iran-Contra inquiry by reviewing the activities
of midlevel Reagan administration aides. The panel also is
expected to explore the roles of the former president and
then-Vice President Bush for inclusion in independent counsel
Walsh's final report to Congress.
   ---
   India is moving tens of thousands of battle-ready soldiers
to its border with Pakistan, prompting concern about the
possibility of another war over Kashmir. In Islamabad,
diplomatic sources said the U.S. warned its ally Pakistan
that if it starts a war with India over the disputed
territory it couldn't count on Washington's backing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   LOTUS'S MERGER with Novell collapsed late Friday,
eliminating a potential challenge to Microsoft's dominance in
computer software. The proposed $1.5 billion deal fell apart
after Novell demanded an equal number of directors in the new
company. Analysts said the failure of the merger is likely to
lead to other partnerships in the industry.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many banks have tightened lending standards for midsized
and small firms amid worries about the economy and their own
loan portfolios, a Fed survey says. Also, the Fed disclosed
that complaints about a credit crunch contributed to its
decision in March not to raise interest rates.
                                                                                                       

   A bill to let banks underwrite and sell insurance was
approved by Delaware's Legislature late Thursday. The
measure, which the governor has pledged to sign, could make
the state a springboard for national insurance-marketing
efforts by banks.
   ---
   Treasury bond investors aren't getting enough government
protection, the GAO says. The agency, which cites
questionable dealer sales tactics and the lack of timely
price data, says the Treasury should have more control over
the market.
                                                                                                       

   Junk-bond prices staged the biggest rally in weeks Friday
as buyers flooded the market. But investors said market
liquidity remains a problem. Stocks and Treasury bonds
declined, while the dollar was mixed.
   ---
   Pan Am's Northeast shuttle was put up for sale just weeks
after its only competitor in the market, the Trump Shuttle,
went on the block. But financial and regulatory hurdles may
prevent a quick sale of either service.
   ---
   PacifiCorp's $1.82 billion bid for Pinnacle West ran into
a new obstacle. An Arizona utility, Salt River Project,
proposed to pay up to $500 million for certain assets of
Pinnacle's Arizona PS unit, the state's biggest electric
utility.
   ---
   Southwest Savings of Dallas was placed under federal
control Friday due to losses from real estate loans. The
thrift was one of the first to join the much-criticized 1988
Southwest Plan, in which it acquired insolvent Texas S&amp;Ls
with federal aid.
   ---
   Cable-TV operators appear less likely to face stringent
new rules as efforts to re-regulate the industry lose
momentum. The most onerous proposals may have been blunted by
intense lobbying and by divisions among cable rivals and
critics.
   ---
   First City Financial said it is considering getting out of
the stock arbitrage business. The Vancouver firm, which is
controlled by Canada's Belzberg family, cited shrinking
takeover activity and sour investments.
   ---
   Pic 'N' Save put itself up for sale to try to prevent an
investor group led by David Batchelder from taking control of
its board. But the retailer of close-out merchandise
indicated it didn't expect any bidders to emerge.
   ---
   Chrysler expects a "decent" second quarter due to
aggressive cost-cutting, Vice Chairman Greenwald said. But
temporary closings at two minivan plants will likely mean a
"tough" third quarter," he said.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 162,520,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2819.91, off 11.80; transportation 1177.28, up 5.34;
utilities 214.79, off 0.50.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3324.57, off
13.09.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 134.33, up 0.37; spot
index 135.81, up 0.21.
   Dollar: 153.00 yen, up 0.86; 1.6477 marks, off 0.0018.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Agency Reportedly May Purchase
   Soviet Uranium-Enrichment Services
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7D
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Energy Department reportedly is
considering buying uranium-enrichment services from the
Soviet Union as part of an arrangement designed to stop the
Soviets from undercutting the U.S. in the lucrative business.
   A spokesman for the department refused to confirm or deny
reports circulating on Capitol Hill and within the nuclear
industry about a pending deal. The spokesman would say only
that the department is considering a "range of alternatives"
to make it more competitive in the uranium-enrichment
business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. currently is the world's largest supplier of
uranium-enrichment services, deriving $1.5 billion annually
from selling the services to nuclear utilities in the U.S.
and abroad, according to the Energy Department. But two years
ago, V/O Techsnabexport, the Soviet agency that markets
uranium-enrichment services, began cutting into the U.S.
market, selling its services at less than half those charged
by the department.
   Under one version of a U.S.-Soviet deal being discussed,
the department would buy cheaper Soviet fuel-enrichment
services and resell them to its customers. The Soviets, in
turn, would refrain from underpricing the department in the
U.S.
   Such an arrangement would give the Soviets hard currency
and official entree into the U.S. market, in turn making
political attempts here to ban their cheaper services more
difficult. At the same time, the ability to resell the
cheaper Soviet services would give the Energy Department a
way to keep some of its long-term customers, while retaining
control over the portion of the U.S. market going to the
Soviets.
   During the past several months, three of the Energy
Department's biggest customers, including the Tennessee
Valley Authority, have announced that they are terminating
some of their long-term contracts.
   The TVA announced earlier this year that it is inviting
providers other than the Energy Department to bid on
supplying fuel for its nuclear power plants. Bob Calabro,
manager of nuclear fuel for TVA, said that the huge,
federally owned power complex also is considering buying some
cheaper enrichment services on the spot market. "The Soviets
are the market maker today," he noted.
   The first glimmer of a possible U.S.-Soviet deal came from
New York Nuclear Corp., a tiny nuclear brokerage firm
operated from a home in Scarsdale, N.Y. "It's sort of a
win-win situation for everybody involved," asserted Daniel
Einbund, vice president of the concern.
   Mr. Einbund said the firm presented the idea to Soviet
officials in Moscow in December and received a letter of
interest. It then took the letter to the Energy Department.
"DOE wanted information about many details, including
transportation and what they are going to do with the money,"
Mr. Einbund said.
   According to Mr. Einbund, the Soviets agreed to spend
money they receive from the potential $200 million deal on
products and equipment in the U.S. At that point, he said, he
was told the proposal had risen "to very, very high levels in
Washington and Moscow."
   The hardest evidence that the Energy Department is
considering a departure from its old ways arrived on Capitol
Hill last month. The department submitted a one-line budget
proposal that would allow it to buy uranium on the world spot
market, which is dominated by Techsnabexport. The proposal --
first reported by Nuclear Fuel, a newsletter published by
McGraw-Hill -- immediately set off rumblings on Capitol Hill.
   "If I read between the lines, I think we are about to
enter into an agreement with the Soviet Union," Sen. Pete
Domenici (R., N.M.) told William H. Young, the Energy
Department's assistant secretary for nuclear energy. Mr.
Young replied only that the department was concerned about
growing Soviet sales and was looking at "a range of
alternatives" to shore up its market.
   To ease concerns on Capitol Hill, according to Mr.
Einbund, the deal would allow aging U.S. enrichment plants at
Paducah, Ky., and Portsmouth, Ohio, to keep operating,
although they are believed to be much more expensive to run
than newer Soviet plants, which use high-speed centrifuges.
The Soviets, he said, would agree to use uranium mined in the
U.S. as a feedstock.
   Uranium enrichment is an elaborate process that turns
natural uranium into a gaseous compound and then restructures
it so that an unstable isotope, or rare chemical relative of
uranium -- called U-235 -- becomes more concentrated.
   The U.S. enrichment program began during World War II as
part of the country's nuclear-weapons program. After the war,
the U.S. switched most of its uranium-enrichment capability
to providing fuel for the then-growing nuclear power
industry. For two decades, the U.S. government enjoyed a
near-monopoly on the enrichment business in the non-Communist
world.
   While both U.S. and Soviet uranium-enrichment facilities
were originally designed to provide highly enriched uranium
for atomic bombs, both countries later switched to a
different metal, plutonium, for their nuclear arsenals.
Plutonium is derived from a different process.
   The major remaining military need for enriched uranium is
for fuel for nuclear submarines and ships. According to the
Energy Department, 10% of U.S. output is used for military
purposes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Guilford Mills Inc.:
   Posner of Graniteville Co.
   Increases Holding to 10.3%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GFD
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Investor Victor Posner said Guilford Mills Inc. is seeking
talks in connection with a possible business combination
between Guilford, Greensboro, S.C., and closely held
Graniteville Co., Graniteville, S.C. Mr. Posner is chairman
of Graniteville.
   Charles Hayes, Guilford chairman and chief executive
officer, said his company is interested in acquiring
Graniteville for either cash or stock. He said he contacted
Mr. Posner about two weeks ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Hayes said the two companies would make a good
combination, as both specialize in manufacturing clothes for
the career apparel market. In fiscal 1989, Guilford earned
$26 million, or $2.67 a share, on revenue of about $620
million.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Mr. Posner said he raised his stake in Guilford to 10.3%
after buying 20,000 shares on May 3 for $22 a share and
88,100 shares for $20.625 a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Axa-Midi Assurances:
   Insurer Sells Its 92% Stake
   In Paris Warehouse Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   F.AXA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Axa-Midi Assurances said it sold its 92% holding in a
Paris-based warehouse company to La Societe Magnant S.A. for
the equivalent of $731 a share, or $575 million.
   The warehouse company, Cie. des Entrepots &amp; Magasins
Generaux, is traded on the Paris Bourse.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sale price is almost twice the $296.5 million value
estimated by an independent appraiser in Axa-Midi's
application earlier this year to purchase Farmers Insurance
Group, Axa-Midi said. The sale of Farmers Insurance to
Axa-Midi was proposed by Sir James Goldsmith as part of his
$21 billion bid for B.A.T Industries PLC. California
insurance authorities rejected the sale of Farmers, saying
the leverage required would have endangered Farmers.
   Axa Midi, Europe's seventh largest insurance company, said
it continues to look for a U.S. insurance company to buy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, May 18, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                            Stock    N.A.    Stock     %
   Fund Name                Exch.    Value   Price    Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express            NYSE     18.42  16 1/8  - 12.46
   Baker Fentress           NYSE     24.56  20      - 18.57
   Blue Chip Value          NYSE      7.56   6 3/4  - 10.71
   Clemente Global Gro      NYSE    b11.92   9 1/2  - 20.30
   France Growth Fund       NYSE     11.07  13      + 17.43
   Gemini II Capital        NYSE     16.06  13 3/8  - 16.72
   Gemini II Income         NYSE      9.54  12 1/2  + 31.03
   General Amer Invest      NYSE     23.53  19 7/8  - 15.53
   Growth Stock Outlook     NYSE     10.30   9 3/8  -  8.98
   Liberty All-Star Eqty    NYSE      9.71   8      - 17.61
   Niagara Share Corp.      NYSE     17.52  14 5/8  - 16.52
   Nicholas-Applegate       NYSE     11.88  10 1/4  - 13.72
   Quest For Value Cap      NYSE     17.75  13 7/8  - 21.83
   Quest For Value Inco     NYSE     11.62  13 3/8  + 15.10
   Royce Value Trust        NYSE     10.38   9 3/8  -  9.68
   Salomon Bros.            NYSE     15.46  12 5/8  - 18.34
   Schafer Value Trust      NYSE     10.61  10 1/4  -  3.39
   Source Capital           NYSE    a40.19  40      -  0.47
   Tri-Continental Corp.    NYSE     28.33  24      - 15.28
   Worldwide Value          NYSE     18.58  15 3/4  - 15.23
   Zweig Fund               NYSE     10.96  11 7/8  +  8.35
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs      AMEX      6.82   6      - 12.02
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr     NYSE     b8.00   9      + 12.50
   Franklin Universal Tr    NYSE     b7.68   7 1/8  -  7.23
   Municipal High Inco      NYSE      9.38   9 1/8  -  2.72
   Zenix Income Fund        NYSE      6.17   5 5/8  -  8.83

   Flexible Portfolio Funds
                                                                                                       

   America's All Seasn      OTC       5.85   4 1/4  - 27.35
   Franklin M-M Inco        NYSE      8.72   8 1/8  -  6.82
   Zweig Total Return Fd    NYSE      9.19   9 1/8  -  0.71
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance New Europe Fd   NYSE     11.38  10 1/4  -  9.93
   American Capital Conv    NYSE     21.87  19 1/4  - 11.98
   ASA Ltd                  NYSE   bc62.95  47 3/4  - 24.15
   Asia Pacific             NYSE     14.99  14 3/4  -  1.60
   Austria Fund             NYSE     14.67  14 1/4  -  2.86
   Bancroft Convertible     AMEX     20.73  17 1/2  - 15.58
   Bergstrom Capital        AMEX     60.90  59 3/8  -  2.50
   BGR Precious Metals      TOR    be10.93   9 3/8  - 14.23
   Brazil                   NYSE      9.75   9 7/8  +  1.28
   CNV Holdings Capital     NYSE      9.64   5 1/8  - 46.84
   CNV Holdings Income      NYSE      9.51  11      + 15.67
   Castle Convertible       AMEX     21.60  18 1/4  - 15.51
   Central Securities       AMEX     11.62   9 1/4  - 20.40
   Chile Fund               NYSE     15.79  16 3/8  +  3.70
   Couns Tandem Secs        NYSE     12.54  10 1/2  - 16.27
   Cypress Fund             AMEX      9.64   8 7/8  -  7.94
   Duff &amp; Phelps Sel Utils  NYSE      8.28   8 1/8  -  1.87
   Ellsw Conv Gr &amp; Inc      AMEX     a8.29   7 1/8  - 14.05
   Emerging Ger Fd          NYSE     11.15   9 7/8  - 11.43
   Engex                    AMEX     12.10   9      - 25.62
   1st Australia            AMEX      9.43   8 1/4  - 12.51
   First Financial Fund     NYSE      6.94   6      - 13.54
   First Iberian            AMEX     11.11  11 3/4  +  5.76
   First Philippine Fund    NYSE     11.10   9 1/4  - 16.67
   Future Germany Fund      NYSE     17.08  15 3/4  -  7.79
   Gabelli Equity Trust     NYSE     12.12  12 1/8  +  0.04
   Germany Fund             NYSE     13.26  15 1/2  + 16.89
   Global Utilities Fund    NYSE     11.00   9 3/4  - 11.36
   Growth Fund Spain        NYSE     12.17  10 3/4  - 11.67
   GT Greater Europe Fd     NYSE     14.14  14 5/8  +  3.43
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv       NYSE     11.62  10      - 13.94
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap     AMEX    b11.63   9 3/4  - 16.17
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref    AMEX    b49.25  48 3/4  -  1.02
   Helvetia Fd (Swiss)      NYSE     14.14  14 1/8  -  0.11
   India Growth Fund        NYSE    f12.90  14 3/4  + 14.34
   Indonesia Fund           NYSE     14.70  15 3/4  +  7.14
   Inefficient Market Fund  AMEX     10.96  10 3/8  -  5.34
   Irish Investment Fd      NYSE     11.01   9 1/4  - 15.99
   Italy Fund               NYSE    b14.83  14 1/2  -  2.23
   Jakarta Growth Fd        NYSE     11.09  13 1/2  + 21.73
   Japan OTC Equity Fund    NYSE    b11.61  15 3/4  + 35.66
   Korea Fund               NYSE     15.04  21 3/4  + 44.61
   Malaysia Fund            NYSE     13.99  15 7/8  + 13.47
   Mexico Fund              NYSE    b15.32  14 1/8  -  7.80
   Morgan Grenf Sm Cap      NYSE     11.53   9 7/8  - 14.35
   New Germany Fund         NYSE     14.69  14 7/8  +  1.26
   Pacific Eur Growth Fd    NYSE     11.13  12 7/8  + 15.68
   Patriot Prem Div Fd      NYSE      8.94  10 1/4  + 14.65

   Petrol &amp; Resources       NYSE     30.99  27 1/2  - 11.26
   Pilgrim Regional         NYSE      9.29   8 3/4  -  5.81
   Putnam Dividend Inco     NYSE     10.33  11      +  6.49
   Portugal Fund            NYSE     13.71  14 1/8  +  3.03
   Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd    AMEX      6.48   6 1/4  -  3.55
   ROC Taiwan Fund          NYSE     11.91   9 5/8  - 19.19
   Scudder New Asia         NYSE     17.03  14 1/4  - 16.32
   Scudder New Europe       NYSE     11.95  10 1/4  - 14.23
   SE Savings Inst Fd       OTC      b7.95   7 1/2  -  5.66
   Spain Fund               NYSE     14.50  18      + 24.14
   Taiwan Fund              NYSE    b21.20  22 5/8  +  6.72
   TCW Convertible Secs     NYSE     b8.07   8 1/8  +  0.68
   Templeton Em Mkts        AMEX    b15.30  14 7/8  -  2.78
   Templeton Value Fund     NYSE     b9.73   8 3/4  - 10.07
   Thai Fund                NYSE     19.71  24 5/8  + 24.94
   Turkish Inv Fund         NYSE     15.88  13      - 18.14
   United Kingdom Fund      NYSE     10.74   9 7/8  -  8.05
   Z-Seven                  OTC      13.37  13 5/8  +  1.91
                                                                                                       

   a-Ex-dividend. b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at
Commercial Rand exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of
Wednesday's close.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Montedison S.p.A.:
   Earnings for 1989 Surged
   But Operating Profit Fell
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   MNT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Montedison S.p.A. said its 1989 consolidated profit surged
73% to 1.156 trillion lire ($952.1 million), or 427 lire a
share, from 668 billion lire, or 247 lire a share, a year
earlier, because of a large capital gain from its
contribution to the Enimont S.p.A. chemical joint venture
with state-owned Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi.
   Excluding special items, profit fell 26% to 362 billion
lire. Gross operating earnings fell 29% to 978 billion lire,
and net operating profit plunged 52% to 420 billion lire.
Sales fell 58% to 5.861 trillion lire from 14.122 trillion
lire; adjusted revenue rose 7%, mostly because of the
acquisition of SIR S.p.A., a resins maker.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Montedison, 45%-owned by Gruppo Ferruzzi of Italy, an
agri-industrial and chemical concern, blamed the operating
results on a "consistent narrowing of margins" from
exceptionally good 1988 levels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   This Week's Data Likely to Be Sluggish,
   Starting With Revised Estimate for GNP
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Recent reports of sluggishness in the economy
are likely to be reflected in this week's data, starting with
the revised estimate of first-quarter real gross national
product.
   The government's second shot at figuring GNP, or the total
value of the nation's output of goods and services, is
expected to be lower than the 2.1% annual growth rate logged
in the advance report at the end of April. There's reason to
believe the week's other offerings will also be weaker,
including: April durable goods orders as well as personal
income and personal consumption.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Michael Moran, economist at Daiwa Securities USA, revised
his first-quarter GNP growth estimate down to about 1.6% from
the early 2.1% estimate "almost exclusively due to {lower}
inventory investment." The consensus view calls for a drop in
GNP to a 1.8% growth rate when the second estimate is
reported Thursday, according to MMS International, a unit of
McGraw-Hill Inc., New York.
   "I think what happened was a planned inventory correction,
so I don't think you'll see a sharp rebuilding by business in
the second quarter," Mr. Moran said. Nonetheless, he noted
that even a return to normal inventory investment in the
current quarter "could push growth on the higher side of
underlying trends." Many economists foresee an average GNP
growth rate of about 2% per quarter for the next couple of
periods.
   The chief affected industry, of course, is auto making.
Mr. Moran figures that during the first quarter auto makers
assembled cars at the annual rate of 5.9 million units. So,
if output simply keeps pace with sales during the second
quarter, the industry should produce at an annual rate of 6.5
million units, he said.
   Robert Dederick, chief economist at the Northern Trust Co.
in Chicago, said inventory adjustments subtracted about one
percentage point from GNP in the first quarter and should add
a like amount in the current period. "We ought to get a
pretty good inventory rebound," he said.
   Personal income figures, due out Friday, are expected to
show smaller gains than in March, largely because of April's
weaker-than-expected employment data. Manufacturing
employment fell during April as did the number of hours
worked in factories. The consensus view calls for a 0.3% gain
in April personal income, down from a gain of 0.8% in March.
   Personal consumption is expected to hold up somewhat
better, strengthened by continued gains in spending on
services and some pickup in non-auto durables, economists
said. The consensus view calls for a 0.4% increase in April
consumption, the same increase as in March.
   Economists expect a large fallback in April durable goods
orders following March's 6.7% surge. The consensus view on
the report due out Wednesday calls for a drop of about 2%
with the gap largely attributed to a slowdown in volatile
aircraft orders.
   While recent indicators show a sluggish growth pace,
economists are waiting for more employment data before
calling any major turns. April jobs data, due out a week from
Friday, could help confirm the lethargic pace or it could
throw another curve into forecasts by picking up some steam.
   In the meantime, Samuel Kahan, chief economist at Fuji
Securities Inc., Chicago, is keeping a close eye on weekly
jobless claims, for hints on the direction of the next
unemployment report. The latest report for the week ended May
5 showed that initial claims for regular state unemployment
benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted 353,000 from 349,000
the week before.
   ---
                   CLOSELY WATCHED REPORTS
                                                                                                       

        Statistics Released in the Week Ended May 18
                                                                                                       

                                             CHANGE
                                          (from prior
                              TOTAL          period)
                                                                                                       

   Money Supply
                                                                                                       

     M1 -- Week ended
     May 7 (in billions)     $805.5           - $0.2
                                                                                                       

     M2 -- Week ended
     May 7 (in billions)   $3,271.6           + $2.4
                                                                                                       

     M3 -- Week ended
     May 7 (in billions)   $4,067.7           + $7.2
                                                                                                       

   Industrial Production
   index
   April                      108.7            -0.4%
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims
   Week ended May 5         353,000            +1.1%
                                                                                                       


   April                      128.9            +0.2%
                                                                                                       

   Housing starts
   April, annual rate
   (in thousands)             1,245            -5.8%
                                                                                                       

   Building permits
   April, annual rate
   (in thousands)             1,125            -8.7%
                                                                                                       

   Merchandise trade
   deficit
   March (in billions)        $8.45           +$2.35
                                                                                                       

   Auto sales
   Early May, total vs.
   year ago                 186,039           -10.3%
                                                                                                       

   Capacity utilization
   April, change in
   percentage points          83.0%             -0.5
                                                                                                       

              Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

   Durable goods orders (Wed.)
   April
                                                                                                       

   Auto sales (Wed.)
   Mid-May
                                                                                                       

   Real GNP (Thurs.)
   First quarter, preliminary
                                                                                                       

   Money supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   Personal consumption (Fri.)
   April
                                                                                                       

   Personal income (Fri.)
   April
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pinnacle Gets
   New Proposal
   For Some Assets
   ---
   Offer of Up to $500 Million
   From an Arizona Utility
   Could Trip PacifiCorp
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   PNW PPW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   A quasi-municipal utility proposed to buy some of the
assets of Arizona Public Service Co., the main unit of
Pinnacle West Capital Corp. The proposal could throw a monkey
wrench into PacifiCorp's $1.82 billion offer for Pinnacle
West.
   Salt River Project, Arizona's second-largest electric
utility, proposed to pay as much as $500 million for certain
distribution and transmission facilities in the sprawling
Phoenix area. Arizona Public Service, the largest electric
utility in the state, serves the central parts of Phoenix and
other nearby cities; Salt River serves the surrounding area.
Under the Salt River proposal, roughly 166,000 customers of
Arizona Public Service would become customers of Salt River.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Salt River proposal came just one day after Pinnacle
West received a sweetened $1.82 billion acquisition offer for
the whole company from PacifiCorp, a Portland, Ore., utility
that has operations in seven states. Analysts said the
PacifiCorp offer would be hard to resist.
   But Salt River's proposal, apart from any financial
considerations, is a political wild card because it includes
a promise to freeze residential electricity rates for up to
seven years.
   "By serving our customers in more logical, contiguous
areas, we should be able to keep utility costs down and
improve service," said Jack Pfister, Salt River's general
manager. He said that Salt River's proposal, even though it
covers some of the oldest, highest-revenue producing parts of
Arizona Public Service's territory, shouldn't necessarily
preclude a sale of the rest of Pinnacle to PacifiCorp.
   Richard Snell, Pinnacle's chairman, reacted coolly to Salt
River's proposal. "I don't know why we would want to do this,
but we'll take a look at it." Mr. Snell said there were
"working meetings with financial advisors" over the weekend
to study both proposals. The Phoenix company's annual meeting
is Wednesday.
   Both Mr. Snell and Mr. Pfister denied that the Salt River
proposal was engineered as a more palatable alternative to
PacifiCorp's offer. Mr. Snell has said repeatedly that he
doesn't think this is the time to sell Pinnacle, which is
recovering from deep financial problems brought on by a
failed diversification strategy.
   A PacifiCorp spokesman said the company "hasn't done any
analysis and we don't know yet what {the Salt River proposal}
means." PacifiCorp's $21-a-share offer drops conditions that
made it easier for Pinnacle to reject its three previous
offers.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Pinnacle shares rose 12.5 cents to $16.50 on turnover of more
than two million shares. PacifiCorp shares closed at $22.25,
unchanged. The Salt River proposal came after the close of
trading.
   Salt River said it would pay 150% of book value for the
service areas, minus depreciation and amortization, up to
$500 million. Salt River estimates that the areas have a book
value of between $350 million and $380 million. PacifiCorp's
bid represents a "a little less than book value," Mr. Pfister
said. But he acknowledged that the proposals aren't directly
comparable. Salt River also said it would agree to purchase
power for the areas from Arizona Public Service at an
"attractive rate" for 20 years.
   Seeking customer support in the Arizona Public Service
service areas, Salt River has proposed a rate freeze there.
Arizona Public Service residential rates are now about 15%
higher than Salt River rates. If Salt River's proposal is
accepted, it promised that rates in the Arizona Public
Service areas wouldn't be raised, except to cover fuel
adjustments, until Salt River residential rates catch up in
about seven years.
   Late last week, PacifiCorp began running full-page ads in
Arizona newspapers highlighting its promise to limit
electricity price increases to 2% a year for the next four
years. Arizona Public Service had asked regulators for 6.5%
annual increases for three years beginning in 1991.
   The Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power
District isn't subject to regulation of the Arizona
Corporation Commission. Thus when the Salt River board
approved an average 7.9% rate rise last month for its
residential customers, its seventh rate increase since 1979,
no further action or review was necessary. Residential users
account for about 470,000 of the utility's 520,000 customers.
Arizona Public Service has a total of about 593,000
customers.
   After enjoying a booming business for decades, Salt River
has reduced projections for customer expansion because of
slowing growth of the Arizona economy. Salt River said that
if its bid is successful, it would end Salt River's
obligation to compensate some Arizona Public Service
customers who live within Salt River's waterservice area.
More than 50 years ago, a change in the Salt River bylaws
that has since been modified required the utility to pay
homeowners the difference between Salt River and Arizona
Public Service electric bills if the Arizona Public Service
bills are at least 15% higher. In 1987, Salt River paid out
$3.2 million to 13,100 Arizona Public Service customers and
the following year paid $2.6 million to 9,500 customers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief Synergen Inc.:
   Hoffmann-La Roche to End
   Support for Interlukin Study
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   SYGN Z.HR
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Synergen Inc. said that Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. plans to
discontinue support for Synergen's research program to
determine if its interlukin-1 receptor antagonist is a
potential treatment for inflammatory diseases such as
rheumatoid arthritis.
   Synergen, a Boulder, Colo., biotechnology concern, said
that payments from the U.S. unit of Switzerland's F.
Hoffmann-La Roche &amp; Co accounted for 64% of its sponsored
research and development revenue of $11.9 million last year
and 61% of the $2 million it received in sponsored R&amp;D during
the first quarter this year. But Synergen said it doesn't
expect Roche's termination of support to hurt its development
schedule for the product.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Synergen said it hopes to file with the Food and Drug
Administration later this year so that it can begin human
clinical trials with the protein, known as IL-1ra.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Monitek Technologies Inc.:
   R&amp;W Ventures Holds Stake
   Of 5% in High-Tech Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MTEK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   R&amp;W Ventures II said it holds the equivalent of a 5% stake
in Monitek Technologies Inc.'s common shares outstanding.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
R&amp;W, a Menlo Park, Calif., venture capital concern controlled
by investor Roy L. Rogers, said it controls 190,900 Monitek
common shares, assuming the conversion of Class A stock and
warrants it holds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   R&amp;W's stake includes 77,100 common shares bought from
March 26 to May 16 for $1.31 to $1.44 apiece.
   R&amp;W said it acquired its Monitek securities for investment
purposes only, indicating that it considers high-technology
companies to be undervalued. It said it would consider its
alternatives regarding Monitek, including buying more
securities or selling some or all of its holdings.
   Monitek is based in Hayward, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Apple Bancorp:
   Stahl's Request for Meeting
   Date Is Denied by Court
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   APK
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   A Delaware court denied a request by investor Stanley
Stahl seeking to compel New York-based Apple Bancorp to hold
its 1990 meeting for shareholders on or before June 16.
   Mr. Stahl, who controls 31% of Apple's shares, is waging a
proxy fight to gain control of Apple's board. A New York
real-estate investor, Mr. Stahl has offered $38 a share, or
$121.6 million, for all of the bank's shares that he doesn't
own.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Apple's board has rejected that offer as inadequate, and
investors apparently think either Mr. Stahl will sweeten his
offer, or another bidder will emerge. On Friday, Apple shares
closed at $44.625 a share, unchanged, in composite New York
Stock Exchange trading.
   Apple hasn't set a date for its annual meeting in order to
allow time to explore alternatives to Mr. Stahl's offer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Expects
   Decent 2nd Period,
   Tough 3rd Quarter
   ----
   By Melinda Grenier Guiles
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- An aggressive cost-cutting program should
help Chrysler Corp. have "a pretty decent second quarter" but
temporary closings at the auto maker's two minivan plants
will likely mean a "tough" third quarter, according to Vice
Chairman Gerald Greenwald.
   In an interview here Friday, Mr. Greenwald declined to be
more specific about the company's earnings expectations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first quarter, Chrysler surprised analysts with a
$5 million profit from automotive operations -- a profit the
company attributed to the belt-tightening it began last year.
Net income dropped 80%, however, to $71 million or 32 cents a
share.
   Mr. Greenwald said Chrysler will lose roughly 60,000 to
70,000 units of minivan production this summer because of
model-changeover closings lasting one month each at the auto
maker's Canadian and U.S. assembly plants. This means
Chrysler loses revenue it would have booked when it sold
these vehicles to dealers.
   Chrysler's retail sales might not fall by the same amount,
however, because some dealers are stockpiling 1990 model vans
to tide them over, Mr. Greenwald said.
   He added that Chrysler is "encouraged" by dealer orders
for some other Chrysler products and wants to add more
third-quarter production for several cars, including Spirit
and Acclaim sedans.
   In the second quarter of 1989, Chrysler posted net of $341
million, or $1.46 a share. In the third quarter, Chrysler had
an operating profit of $22 million, or 10 cents a share. Net
was $331 million, or $1.42 a share, after a credit of $309
million, or $1.32 a share, from the sale of shares in
Mitsubishi Motors Corp.
   At the last stop on the auto maker's six-city promotional
tour here Friday, Chairman Lee A. Iacocca confirmed that
Chrysler will go ahead with plans to build the
high-performance Viper sports car it unveiled at the 1989
Detroit auto show.
   Chrysler officials said the budget for Viper was under $50
million -- roughly what Mr. Iacocca says Chrysler spends in
one month on advertising. Viper, which will generate more
than 400 horsepower with a V-10 aluminum engine, will go on
sale in early 1992 with a price tag under $50,000.
   Annual output eventually could total 3,000 to 5,000 units,
but only about 500 will be available in the first year of
sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Cablevision Systems Corp.:
   Cable Operator Posts Loss
   Of $74 Million for Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CVC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cablevision Systems Corp. said it had a net loss of $74
million, or $3.38 a share, for the first quarter, citing
additional interest, depreciation and amortization expenses
related to 1989 acquisitions.
   A year earlier, the Woodbury, N.Y., cable-television
company had a net loss of $59.1 million, or $2.73 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenues rose 21% to $133.8 million from $110.7 million.
   Cablevision said operating profit before depreciation and
amortization rose 19% to $54 million. Net interest expense
rose $17 million to $64 million, while depreciation and
amortization expense rose $10 million to about $54 million.
   At March 31, Cablevision had 1.3 million subscribers in 11
states, as well as interests in programming and advertising
sales companies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   California Court Rejects
   Fetal-Protection Policy
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   JCI LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- (AP) Women can't be banned from jobs that
could harm a fetus, California's highest court ruled,
upholding a challenge to a company policy that affected even
women who have no plans to have children.
   The state Supreme Court on Thursday let stand a lower
court ruling that a battery company's fetal-protection
policy, keeping fertile women away from jobs that could
expose them to low levels of lead, amounts to sex
discrimination.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company, Milwaukee-based Johnson Controls Inc., also
has a case pending before the U.S. Supreme Court over the
same policy.
   The California appellate decision had called the policy
"blatant, overt gender-based discrimination" based on
"unfounded, unscientific stereotypic notions about women."
   "We are in an era of choice. A woman is not required to
become a Victorian brood mare," said the 4th District Court
of Appeal in its 3-0 ruling Feb. 28 in a case from Fullerton.
   But in a case stemming from a Johnson Controls plant in
Minnesota, a federal appeals court had upheld the policy. The
U.S. Supreme Court is expected to rule on the issue by
mid-1991.
   However that turns out, Thursday's action, involving state
fair-employment law, should settle the issue for California,
a state lawyer said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Currency Market's Mood Isn't Friendlier
   Toward Dollar but Selling Pressure Cools
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The mood in the currency market hasn't gotten
much friendlier toward the dollar, though selling pressure
has abated.
   The dollar was propped up late last week by traders buying
to cover previous sales that helped push the dollar down too
far too fast in recent weeks. But traders say the global mix
of interest rates probably will keep it from rising very high
in the near term.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many analysts think U.S. interest rates are poised to edge
down because economic growth is apparently slowing. At the
same time, Japan and West Germany are expected to keep rates
around current levels or raise them to combat inflation.
   As long as there are expectations for lower U.S. rates,
the dollar isn't expected to draw heavy buyers.
   Declining interest rates generally tend to undercut a
currency by lessening purchases of investments denominated in
the unit. Also, yields on deposits of the unit are less
attractive in the Euro-currency market when rates decline.
   "I think we'll see a little more dollar selling emerge. I
don't think we'll go too much higher," says Rick Porter,
manager of corporate trading at Westpac Banking Corp., New
York. "I'm in the sell-dollar camp" for the very short run,
he says.
   Late Friday here, the dollar was quoted at 153.00 yen and
1.6477 marks, compared with 152.14 yen and 1.6495 marks late
Thursday. It was little changed from the week-earlier levels
of 152.65 yen and 1.6478 marks.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the dollar was quoted at
153.33 yen, up from Friday's Tokyo close of 152.90 yen.
Meanwhile, the dollar was trading at about 1.6510 marks.
   Short covering rescued the dollar last week after it
dropped very close to an important psychological support at
150 yen. However, the dollar is still well below month-ago
levels of 158 yen and 1.67 marks. Even more short covering
this week won't lift the dollar anywhere near its month-ago
levels, traders say.
   It has been tough for economists to get a handle on U.S.
rates this year because of mixed signals about growth and
inflation. But many think the Federal Reserve may get leeway
to ease its monetary policy slightly if a number of sectors
remain limp.
   "Most people still believe the next move out of the Fed is
likely to be toward lower rates. That limits the upside for
the dollar," says Steven Wood, director of financial markets
research at Bank of America, San Francisco.
   On the other hand, lower rates aren't seen likely in Japan
and West Germany soon.
   The Bank of Japan may drain a substantial amount of funds
from the banking system in the near term to keep rates up and
prevent the yen from entering another nosedive, analysts say.
Persistent inflationary pressures are also expected to cause
the Japanese central bank to lean toward tightening.
   Growth in Japan's broad money supply, M2 plus certificates
of deposit, climbed from an annual rate of 11.6% in March to
13.6% in April, the fastest clip since December 1976.
   A Bank of Japan official attributed April's high rate to a
large inflow of funds from areas that aren't included in the
broad money-supply measure and to tax payments to local
governments.
   Although the official termed those influences temporary,
he said the generally quick-paced money-supply growth is
worrisome. Japan has had double-digit growth in its broad
money supply for five consecutive months.
   In West Germany, the Bundesbank is expected to keep a
tight clamp on credit before monetary union goes into effect
July 2. Although economists have played down the financial
markets' inflation fears, price pressures are still expected
to increase in both West Germany and East Germany after the
West German mark becomes the official currency of the weaker
nation.
   "The clear risk is that rates would move somewhat higher"
in Japan and West Germany, says Mr. Wood of Bank of America.
   While the dollar isn't expected to strengthen much against
the mark and the yen anytime soon, a free fall isn't seen as
probable either.
   The dollar usually attracts flight-to-quality buying when
nervousness about German monetary union flares up. Also, any
weakness in Japan's stock and bond markets tends to send
traders flocking to the dollar. In fact, the dollar fared
well earlier this year because of those factors.
   Some economists believe the dollar's softness will be a
short-lived phenomenon.
   "The dollar has more upside potential from these levels
than downside," says David Resler, chief economist at Nomura
Securities International Inc., New York.
   "The dollar has declined enough against the Deutsche mark,
and it is unsustainably weak at these levels," he says,
adding that the dollar may strengthen in coming months. The
dollar is currently almost 20% below 1989's intraday peak of
2.0475 marks, on June 15.
   Mr. Resler bases his bullish forecast on expectations that
U.S. inflationary pressures will let up in coming months now
that weather-related food and energy price jumps from earlier
this year are gone. The annualized inflation rate, he says,
may fall to 3.5% to 4% from the current 4.7%.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday, gold for
current delivery rose $5.20 to $374.70 an ounce. The close
was the highest since April 24. Estimated volume was a very
heavy five million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Monday, gold was quoted at $373.45 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- News Corp.:
   London Unit Sets Venture
   For Printing in Germany
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS
</CO>
<LP>
   News International PLC, London, which is part of the
Australian-based News Corp. Ltd., said that it is setting up
a joint venture with Burda Verwaltungs G.m.b.H., of West
Germany, for printing units in both East and West Germany.
   No financial details are being released, said a News
International spokeswoman. A "great deal of discussion on
many factors" still has to take place, she said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement, so far, includes the current Burda plant in
Darmstadt being spun off into a new joint venture company
called Burda News Druck G.m.b.H. That company will print some
of the five million Sunday magazines, a supplement
accompanying News International's British Sunday newspaper
the News Of The World. There are no other details on how the
plant will be used, said the spokeswoman.
   The two companies also agreed in principle to set up a
joint venture to print works in East Germany, said the
spokeswoman. No sites or financing proposals have been
decided, she said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Lone Star Industries Inc.:
   Massachusetts Agency Suit
   Claims Defective Rail Ties
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LCE
</CO>
<LP>
   Lone Star Industries Inc. said the Massachusetts Bay
Transportation Authority filed suit against the company in
federal court in Massachusetts for $18 million over allegedly
defective concrete crossties.
   The suit stems from MBTA's purchase of about 36,900 ties
that MBTA alleges are defective. The MBTA ties are among
500,000 concrete crossties that Lone Star previously said
were aging prematurely. The ties were manufactured at Lone
Star's SanVel plant in Littleton, Mass.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Other purchasers of the crossties have also filed suit
against Lone Star, a producer of cement and other
construction materials. Those actions brought in federal
court have been consolidated for pretrial purposes in the
U.S. District Court of Maryland.
   Lone Star has sued the suppliers of the cement used for
the crossties and a testing company, which performed work on
the aggregates used in the crossties.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan's NTT Loosens Its `Family' Ties
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN T J.MOT ERICY J.NTT
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Many of the big victories in the struggle to
enter Japan's market don't involve knocking down formal trade
barriers. They aren't even multibillion-dollar export
contracts.
   They are foreign companies' first penetrations into the
tight-knit Japanese corporate "families" that work closely
together on a wide range of products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That was the significance of Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone
Corp.'s announcement last week that it had selected three
foreign companies -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.'s
AT&amp;T International Inc. unit and Motorola Inc., along with
Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson of Sweden -- plus seven Japanese
partners, to develop its next-generation mobile-telephone
system.
   Analysts say the size of the contracts probably wasn't
very big. (Terms of the agreement weren't disclosed). But
they could ultimately give those companies a large chunk of
Japan's burgeoning mobile-phone market, which, according to
Michael Jeremy of Baring Securities Ltd., could grow to 6.5
million users by 1998 from an estimated 400,000 today.
   While AT&amp;T has tried to modify its U.S. equipment for
Japan, "it's difficult for NTT to find something they can
use," says Allan Yoshimura, managing director of AT&amp;T Japan's
network systems group. "By participating more closely in the
designs, it's a lot easier for us to address the specific
needs of NTT."
   That's quite a change. Almost all NTT's procurement
previously went to its "family" companies, suppliers like NEC
Corp., Fujitsu Ltd., Hitachi Ltd. and Oki Electric Industry
Co. Even when it opened bids to outsiders, the family
companies had long been working with their "parent" to learn
equipment plans and to help design specifications. It was
nearly impossible for foreign companies to compete.
   "This kind of long-term participation is traditional in
Japan, and it has puzzled some foreign companies as to why
they're not welcomed as a bidder on technologies where they
feel they can offer a competitive project," says Michael
Mintz, director of Dow Chemical Japan Ltd.'s office of
technology, who is pushing to get greater foreign access to
Japanese research. "The reason is that a number of `partners'
have been working with the future purchaser for many years."
   Indeed, in many sectors, U.S. companies, frustrated with
years of low market share in Japan, are now pushing hard to
get equal access to future product plans. In some cases, the
access is limited because of keiretsu, formal networks
between manufacturers and suppliers, as well as banks and
other affiliated companies. Sometimes the exclusionary ties
are less formal but just as strong.
   The semiconductor industry is a good case study in trying
to break into those relationships. In 1986, with the U.S.
share of the Japanese market below 10% and fading, the two
governments signed a five-year accord aimed at boosting
American sales here. For three years, market share stayed
stagnant, the U.S. imposed sanctions, and both sides traded
accusations.
   But in the past year, the acrimony has faded and the two
sides have been working more closely together. Consumer
electronics is an area where the U.S. semiconductor market
share has been particularly low. For years, Japanese
companies simply argued that U.S. companies didn't make the
right kind of chips. But earlier this year, a bilateral
consumer task force drew up a report of Japanese makers'
needs and American supplier capacity, with plans on how to
match the two.
   Similarly, high-definition television sets will go on sale
in the next couple of years, and Japanese electronics
companies are scouting around for suppliers. The old approach
would have been to contact informally their own semiconductor
divisions, and perhaps other friendly domestic companies. But
last month, top executives from all the major Japanese
electronics companies flew to San Francisco and gave detailed
blueprints of their HDTV sets to American semiconductor
companies.
   "If you want to design integrated circuits" for the HDTV
system, "this tells you what it is, and where it's going, and
gives you three to five years to develop the product," says
David A. Hytha, president of the U.S. Semiconductor Industry
Association's Japan office and managing director of AT&amp;T
Microelectronics' Japan office. "It's extraordinarily
valuable."
   American auto-parts companies are also clamoring for more
early information. The U.S. says its share of the Japanese
market is under 1% and "one of the crucial issues is access
to the design phase," says a U.S. government official. In
order to stave off threatened sanctions last month, Japanese
industry officials met in Las Vegas to discuss ways of
plugging in more American parts.
   In addition, U.S. companies are pushing to get more access
to the government research projects that, because all the
major Japanese companies participate, help shape the future
market. In fact, Japan's Ministry of International Trade and
Industry recently declared all its major research projects
open to foreign companies.
   "I think we've got the barriers down now," says Dr. Mintz
of Dow Chemical. "Now, whether American companies feel they
are able to benefit by participation we won't know for
years."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Australia State Treasurer
   Moves to Allay Debt Fears
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SYDNEY -- Victoria's Treasurer Tom Roper moved to allay
concerns over the Australian state's financial condition,
after Moody's Investors Service Inc. announced it is
reviewing for possible downgrade certain state-guaranteed
debt.
   Mr. Roper said the review would have no effect on
Victoria's ability to meet its commitments. "There is no
question about our ability to service the cost of borrowed
funds," he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moody's said earlier that it was reviewing for possible
downgrade all triple-A bond ratings assigned to the
Australian dollar-denominated, long-term obligations
guaranteed by the state of Victoria. Specifically, the rating
agency said it was reviewing the local-currency, long-term
debt of State Bank of Victoria and State Electricity
Commission of Victoria. Moody's cited as reasons for the
review a slowdown in the Australian economy, Victoria's
"relatively high" interest-cost burden and recent losses by
state-owned entities.
   The review affects 3.7 billion Australian dollars (US$2.82
billion) of long-term debt, Moody's said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Belzberg Says First
   City Might Drop
   Risk Arbitrage
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   T.FCY
</CO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- First City Financial Corp.,
which is controlled by Vancouver's Belzberg family, said it
is mulling a departure from the stock arbitrage business,
citing shrinking takeover activity and sour investments.
   "We're thinking of getting out of it altogether," Samuel
Belzberg, First City chairman, president, and chief executive
officer, said after the company's annual meeting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Belzberg, whose investment savvy and reputation as a
corporate raider helped First City rack up big earnings
during the 1980s takeover boom -- often by acquiring stakes
in U.S. companies, threatening a takeover and then selling
out at a profit -- said losses on risk arbitrage trading
"fully account" for the sharp drop in first-quarter earnings
from First City's investment and trading arm, traditionally a
key profit generator.
   For the quarter ended March 31, gains on investments and
trading totaled just 1.7 million Canadian dollars (US$1.4
million), he said, down from C$26.6 million a year earlier.
First City previously blamed falling earnings from its
investment and trading business for the company's poor
first-quarter earnings, released earlier last week, which
fell to C$5.2 million, or 10 Canadian cents a share, from
profit before special items of C$31.7 million, or 58 Canadian
cents a share, a year earlier, when a gain on the sale of an
investment made net income C$155.4 million, or C$2.82 a
share. Revenue rose to C$243.5 million from C$241.1 million.
   Mr. Belzberg didn't specify which takeover-stock plays
went bad, though he distinguished between First City's risk
arbitrage activity and "long-term" investments, such as its
11.5% stake in Armstrong World Industries Inc. Indeed, most
of First City's securities investment profits in recent years
stem not from risk arbitrage, but from the sale of its
holdings in its own would-be targets, such as Armstrong.
   Armstrong, a Lancaster, Pa.-based building products
company that has succeeded in outmaneuvering the Belzbergs,
hasn't followed the traditional script, however. First City's
paper loss on its Armstrong stake is about US$30 million.
   W. Gordon Lancaster, executive vice president and chief
financial officer, said First City's New York arbitrage group
got burned in recent months on several deals that fizzled,
including Hilton Hotels Corp.'s failed attempt to auction its
assets. "As the takeover world has slowed, so has arbitrage,"
Mr. Lancaster said.
   "We've made about the equivalent of a bond yield" on
arbitrage activity, he said, "which at the end of the day,
isn't a very sexy return."
   Mr. Lancaster said that First City's portfolio of
arbitrage stocks now is about C$60 million, down from about
C$200 million at its peak, and that the company will probably
"unwind" the balance. Arbitrage stocks make up only a small
part of First City's securities investment and trading
assets, which totaled C$1.32 billion at the end of 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   GEC and Thomson Discuss
   Work on Fighter-Jet Radar
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP U.GEL TCSFY
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- The defense and space unit of General Electric
Co. of Britain, GEC-Marconi Ltd., said late last week an
agreement is "very close" on cooperating with one of its
archrivals, Thomson-CSF S.A., on the next generation of
fighter-aircraft radar.
   Thomson-CSF, a unit of French state-owned Thomson S.A.,
declined to comment. GEC isn't related to General Electric
Co. of the U.S. GEC-Marconi said this would be the first
venture by Europe's two largest defense electronics
companies. The talks are the latest indication of the
transformation under way in the world's defense business,
after revolutionary changes in Eastern Europe, as Western
governments are cutting defense spending plans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Thomson-GEC radar pact would be a first step toward
creating the first truly pan-European fighter aircraft.
France is building the Rafale, competing with a British, West
German, Italian and Spanish effort to develop the European
Fighter Aircraft. Thomson is involved in developing the
Rafale radar, and GEC-Marconi is developing the EFA radar.
The proposed radar cooperation wouldn't affect those programs
but would be aimed at a joint effort for any successor
programs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Mobil Is Set to Fight Cover-Up Charge
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus and Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   MOB TEX PCI
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
AIRLINES (AIR)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Opening arguments in the case of a former Mobil Corp.
executive who claims he was fired because he refused to cover
up environmental problems are expected to begin today in
federal court in Newark, N.J.
   Valcar Bowman, Jr., former manager for environmental
affairs at the company's Mobil Chemical Co. unit, says he was
fired in 1986 because he refused to make changes in internal
environmental reports about the company's operating
facilities. Mr. Bowman claims the changes would have
downplayed environmental problems. Companies are encouraged
by regulators to keep the records to help ensure compliance
with environmental laws.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The reports are at the heart of Mr. Bowman's case. In a
pretrial ruling, U.S. District Judge Harold A. Ackerman said,
"The defendant itself recognized that potential liability
would accrue to these reports, which is why {Mobil's general
counsel's office} took pains to ensure that they did not
overstate the extent of noncompliance."
   Mobil contends the proposed changes in the reports were
designed to improve accuracy and clarity and that no cover-up
of environmental problems occurred. The company has said Mr.
Bowman lost his job as part of a cost-cutting move. Lawyers
for both sides said they couldn't comment on pending
litigation.
   Mobil initially opposed releasing the documents to the
public, arguing it might discourage candor by companies that
keep such records. Judge Ackerman ruled in December that the
public had a right to see Mobil's reports.
   Mr. Bowman says he was criticized during a 1985
performance review for refusing to allow his staff to
participate in the removal of environmental documents from a
Mobil plant in Bakersfield, Calif. Mr. Bowman said he and his
staff were ordered to remove the documents shortly after the
Los Angeles district attorney's office raided another Mobil
facility and seized environmental documents.
   Three members of Mr. Bowman's staff who prepared the
reports have stated in pretrial fact-finding interviews that
they don't believe the proposed changes would have falsified
the findings. They are expected to testify for Mobil at the
trial. Others expected to testify for the New York company
include Mr. Bowman's supervisor, the former president of
Mobil Chemical and several in-house lawyers.
   Mobil is seeking permission from the court to introduce
evidence showing Mr. Bowman's alleged misrepresentations
involving his military history, academic references and
resumes. In court papers submitted late last month, Mobil
said Mr. Bowman antagonized his colleagues and became an
ineffective manager.
   ---
   EASTERN AIRLINE'S legal bill is $12.7 million for four
months.
   Nine law firms representing Eastern, its creditors and the
court-appointed examiner in the airline's Chapter 11
reorganization won approval last week for the payment of $7.8
million in fees for the four months prior to Feb. 28, a
period that included the conclusion of a controversial
inquiry into the acquisition of Eastern's assets by its
parent, Texas Air Corp.
   Five other law firms had sought almost $4.9 million from
Eastern's estate, but under a compromise with creditors,
those firms will have to seek as much as 65% of their fees
from Texas Air. The creditors had objected that much of the
five firms' work benefited Texas Air during the examiner's
investigation.
   The examiner, David I. Shapiro, concluded his
investigation March 1 with a report that Texas Air had
underpaid Eastern by as much as $403 million for assets it
acquired from the unit prior to Eastern's Chapter 11 filing
in March 1989.
   The five firms that will have to seek some of their fees
from Texas Air were led by Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer &amp; Feld,
which claimed almost $3.3 million in compensation.
   The Washington, D.C., firm was replaced last week as
Eastern's counsel for labor and government regulatory matters
at the request of trustee Martin Shugrue, who was appointed
in April to run the airline. Eastern's new regulatory counsel
is Washington-based Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard, McPherson &amp;
Hand, which worked with Mr. Shugrue when he was with Pan Am
carrier, Continental Airlines.
   Mr. Shugrue isn't expected to change Eastern's lead
bankruptcy firm, Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges, which billed $3.1
million for the latest billing period. But Verner Liipfert
won't be the only new law firm in the 14-month-old Eastern
reorganization. Los Angeles-based O'Melveny &amp; Myers recently
wooed creditors' committee counsel Joel Zweibel from the New
York firm of Kramer, Levin, Nessen, Kamin &amp; Frankel, where
Mr. Zweibel had been a partner for more than eight years.
   Mr. Zweibel is taking the Eastern creditors' work with him
to O'Melveny's New York office. He is bringing along with him
clients in the Chapter 11 reorganizations of LTV Corp. and
Lomas Financial Corp. Part of the reason for his move, Mr.
Zweibel said, is the availability of more staff at his new
firm.
   Kramer Levin billed just $930,478 for the fourth period in
Eastern's bankruptcy. "We've staffed unusually leanly," Mr.
Zweibel said.
   ---
   DISASTER CASES would be streamlined under pending federal
legislation.
   The bill, introduced by U.S. Rep. Robert Kastenmeier (D.,
Wis.), provides for easier consolidation of state and federal
disaster-related cases under the jurisdiction of one federal
court. Such streamlining is aimed at easing the burden on
courts nationwide by eliminating the duplication of cases and
speeding up the disposition of those cases.
   Under current law, cases filed in state court can be moved
to a federal court only if none of the defendants are
residents of the same state as any of the plaintiffs. In the
avalanche of suits typically filed in the wake of a disaster,
there is a big chance that several parties will reside in the
same state, thereby hindering consolidation.
   Under the proposed law, state cases can be moved if any
single defendant and any plaintiff are from different states.
Once the request for consolidation is made, the Judicial
Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, a group of seven federal
judges, determines which federal judge will handle the case.
   The proposed legislation defines a disaster as any
accident in which at least 25 persons died or were injured
and in which damages amount to more than $50,000 for each
person. It doesn't cover product-liability cases such as the
asbestos-litigation or the Agent Orange cases. The bill is
awaiting action on the House floor, following the unanimous
approval of the House Judiciary Committee.
   Some plaintiffs' attorneys oppose the bill, claiming that
consumers get a better deal under the current system in which
they can go "forum-shopping," that is, choose whichever court
-- state or federal -- best suits their needs.
   Others, including San Francisco lawyer Melvin Belli, are
more bullish. Mr. Belli says, "Anything that cuts down the
waiting time and helps to get rid of the multiplicity of
courts and cases is important. This is the direction we
should be working toward in the 1990s."
   ---
   LAWYERS ARE OVERWHELMINGLY SATISFIED with their job
choices.
   A survey, conducted by the National Law Journal and West
Publishing Co., of St. Paul, Minn., found that most lawyers
aren't secretly yearning to become stockbrokers or
songwriters. Of the more than 1,000 lawyers polled, 79% said
they are satisfied with their career and would choose to
become a lawyer again.
   But for women and blacks the decision wouldn't be as easy.
Approximately 15% of women and nearly a third of black
lawyers surveyed said they plan to leave the profession.
   Most of the happy lawyers cited intellectual stimulation
and not financial rewards as the primary reason for their job
satisfaction. But among lawyers with annual incomes between
$200,000 and $400,000, 77% cited money as key to their
contentment.
   ---
   GRETA GARBO'S ESTATE sues Simon &amp; Schuster to halt
publication of biography.
   The suit, filed in federal court in Manhattan, N.Y.,
claims the book is being falsely promoted and violates the
estate's copyrights. It claims that "Garbo: Her Story," by
Antoni Gronowicz, is being misrepresented as a factual
account based on the author's 20-year friendship with the
actress, who died in April.
   The suit cites affidavits by Ms. Garbo denying she even
knew Mr. Gronowicz, who died in 1985. Simon &amp; Schuster Inc.,
a unit of Paramount Communications Inc., acquired the book in
1976, but in the wake of objections from Ms. Garbo, agreed
not to publish the book until after her death.
   The suit, which seeks unspecified damages, claims that
marketing for the book "leaves the unmistakable, yet false,
impression that Miss Garbo contributed substantially to the
work." The book, which is said to be told in Ms. Garbo's own
words, is slated to be published in June.
   Simon &amp; Schuster officials couldn't be reached for
comment.
   ---
   MUSICIANS' FREE-SPEECH rights aren't infringed by New York
subway system's ban on amplifiers, a U.S. appeals court said.
The decision, the second in recent weeks involving new subway
regulations, overturned a lower-court ruling that it was
unconstitutional to bar amplifiers in subway-platform
performances. The U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals said
the musicians' artistic concerns were outweighed by possible
safety hazards.
   ---
   Ann Hagedorn contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR CIN PXLS
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   AMR Corp., shelf offering of up to $1 billion of debt
securities and warrants.
                                                                                                       

   Cincinnati Gas &amp; Electric Co., shelf offering of up to
$300 million of first mortgage bonds.
                                                                                                       

   Phoenix Laser Systems Inc., secondary offering of 300,000
units of preferred stock and warrents, via Paulson Investment
Co. Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Sundowner Offshore Services Inc., initial offering of 1.3
million common shares, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc. and Lovett
Underwood Neuhaus &amp; Webb Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Abiomed's Singh Takes
   Indefinite Leave of Absence
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   ABD WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   DANVERS, Mass. -- Abiomed Inc. said Param I. Singh has
decided to go on indefinite leave of absence and resign from
his position as executive vice president effective Aug. 1.
   Dr. Singh, who was also general manager of the company's
Abiodent dental division, said in a news release that the
decision "was based entirely on health reasons." He will
continue to serve as an Abiomed director.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Abiomed develops medical and dental devices and cardiac
support systems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Superior Industries International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SUP
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SUPERIOR INDUSTRIES INTERNATIONAL Inc. said it will
distribute a 10% common stock dividend, one share for each 10
shares owned, on June 29 to stock of record June 15. The Van
Nuys, Calif., maker of aluminum wheels for autos and other
auto products also said it will maintain its quarterly cash
dividend at a rate of seven cents a share, payable July 27 to
stock of record July 6.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Two Men Accused
   In Scam Involving
   Annual Reports
   ----
   By Mark Robichaux
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7F
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
POSTAL SERVICE (POS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Public corporations that pay to get their annual reports
distributed may be victims of a scam.
   A federal grand jury in Cleveland last week charged
William R. Wood and Dennis A. O'Rourke, both of Lakewood,
Ohio, with using the mail system to defraud companies in the
U.S. and Canada. Postal authorities say the scheme may have
involved as many as 1,500 public corporations that
collectively paid an estimated $50,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Between March 1988 and June 1989, according to the
indictment, Messrs. Wood and O'Rourke allegedly used a post
office box, a mail drop and a telephone answering service to
operate a simple but effective false-billing scheme.
   Under New York Stock Exchange rules, publicly traded
companies are required to give financial reports to companies
representing shareholders, and to reimburse those companies
for distributing the reports.
   According to the indictment, Messrs. Wood and O'Rourke
requested financial reports from companies using a variety of
official-sounding names, including W.M.F. Financial Corp.,
Wood Meade Funds, Guardian Asset Fund Inc., and Magna
Investments Inc.
   The two men then billed the victim corporations between
$15 and $50 each for distributing the reports. But as Postal
Inspector Michael D. Sitter in Cleveland points out, "Not
only were they a business not authorized to do business, they
were not actually providing the service." Because the
invoices looked legitimate, and because the fees were
relatively nominal, most target companies paid the phony
bills.
   Last May, after an investigation, U.S. postal inspectors
began collecting mail addressed to the phony companies and
subsequently issued a cease-and-desist order. Mr. Wood has
told the U.S. Postal Inspection Service that he is not the
Wood in Wood Meade Funds. Neither Mr. Wood nor Mr. O'Rourke
could be reached for comment.
   "They haven't got all {these phony companies,} because I
just got another one in the mail, this one from Brooklyn,"
says Richard Odlin, vice president at Puget Sound Bancorp in
Washington state. Last year, Mr. Odlin tipped the post office
off to the Wood Meade Funds scheme in a letter in which he
chronicled his experience with the company. His suspicion was
aroused, oddly enough, by a 1977 Wall Street Journal article
outlining a fraudulent billing scheme for annual reports.
"But we never did get our $15 back," says Mr. Odlin.
   If convicted on charges of criminal mail fraud, each
defendant faces a maximum sentence of five years in federal
prison and a $250,000 fine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Manufacturers National Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MNTL
</CO>
<LP>
   MANUFACTURERS NATIONAL Corp. (Detroit) -- Paul H.
Martzowka, 51 years old, treasurer and chief financial
officer of this bank holding company, was elected a director,
filling a vacancy, and to the board of the principal
subsidiary, Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit,
succeeding Kenneth Aird, 64, the company's vice chairman, who
is retiring in July.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Northrop Official
   Gets Prison Sentence
   Of One Year, One Day
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   NOC
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- A former engineer at Northrop Corp.'s
now-defunct Precision Products division was sentenced in
federal court here last week to one year and one day in
prison for his role in falsifying tests on parts for the
Navy's Harrier jet.
   The engineer, Howard Hyde, 49 years old, pleaded guilty in
January to one count of conspiracy and two counts of making
false statements in connection with tests of a part that
provides stability during the Harrier's vertical take-offs
and landings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The only other individual who was successfully prosecuted
in the fraud case is Clarence Gonsalves, 62. As previously
reported, Mr. Gonsalves, a former Precision Products manager,
was sentenced last week to three years in prison and fined
$10,000 for falsifying tests on the Air Force's air-launched
cruise missile.
   U.S. District Judge Pamela Ann Rymer said Mr. Hyde's
lighter sentence, compared with that for Mr. Gonsalves, owed
to Mr. Hyde's "extraordinary cooperation" wth the government
at an early stage of the investigation. But she said a prison
sentence was necessary as "a signal to industry that this
kind of behavior is unacceptable."
   Just as opening arguments in a criminal fraud trial
against Northrop were to begin earlier this year, the
aerospace concern pleaded guilty to 34 counts of making false
statements to the government in connection with testing parts
for the cruise missile and the Harrier. It also agreed to pay
$17 million in fines.
   As part of that settlement, the Justice Department agreed
to drop 141 additional counts. It also dismissed all charges
against the two highest-ranking corporate officials
implicated in the case, who were reinstated by Northrop after
the settlement. As part of the agreement, federal authorities
also closed their investigations into alleged improprieties
related to Northrop's making of MX missile parts and the B-2
bomber.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   CLARENCE GONSALVES is a former manager of the now-defunct
Western Services Department, Pomona, Calif., of Northrop
Corp.'s Precision Products division, and Howard Hyde is a
former senior engineer of the department. Recent editions
mistakenly said that the Precision Products division,
Norwood, Mass., was the unit that closed.
   (WSJ May 23, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   THE U.S. PATENT on the aspartame sweetener of Monsanto
Co.'s NutraSweet Co. unit expires in December 1992. The date
was misstated in Friday's edition.
   (See: "Tricky Roll-Out: Rich in New Products, Monsanto
Must Only Get Them on Market --- Fake Fat, Cow Hormone Pose
Challenge for a Firm Used to Selling Petrochemicals --- Flap
Over a New Ulcer Drug" -- WSJ May 18, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   DH Technology Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS DHTK
</CO>
<LP>
   DH TECHNOLOGY Inc. (San Diego) -- William J. Bowers was
elected a director of this independent supplier of high
technology impact printer products. He succeeds Helmut Falk,
who retired. Mr. Bowers was chairman of MSI Data Corp. until
1988 when Symbol Technologies Inc. acquired the firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rogers Communications Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RCI.B
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Edward S. Rogers, president and chief executive
officer of Rogers Communications Inc., said he increased his
holding of the company's nonvoting Class B shares by
2,074,485 shares to 13,808,623 shares, or 19.3% of the Class
B stock outstanding.
   Mr. Rogers and companies and trusts controlled by him also
own 89.4% of the telecommunication company's Class A voting
shares, he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Coffee, Sugar, Cocoa Exchange
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Two memberships on the Coffee, Sugar &amp; Cocoa
Exchange were sold Friday. The first was sold for $96,000 and
the second for $95,000. These compare with the last sale on
April 24 at $88,000 and one a year ago, on May 2, 1989, at
$95,000. Currently, a seat is bid at $82,000 and offered at
$100,000, according to an exchange spokeswoman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Furman Selz Mager Dietz:
   New York Investment Firm
   Raises Stake in Company
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6D
</SO>
<CO>
   CRV
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Furman Selz Mager Dietz &amp; Birney Inc., a New York
investment firm, said it raised its stake in Coast
Distribution System Inc. to 8.98% of common shares
outstanding.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Furman Selz said it holds 373,300 Coast Distribution shares,
including 214,200 shares purchased between Dec. 22 and May 15
for $5.50 to $6.250 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The filing did not give a reason for the increase in
stake.
   Coast Distribution System is based in San Jose, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Apple-Pie Aspect of Environmental Taxes Draws
   Proponents Even From the Ranks of Lip Readers
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES SO
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Rep. E. Clay Shaw Jr. is a loyal Republican
who has wrapped himself in President Bush's "no new taxes"
pledge. But when it comes to the environment, well, that's a
different matter.
   A few weeks ago, Rep. Shaw introduced a bill proposing a
new tax on polystyrene products, often used for fast-food
containers. "There's no question it's a tax," he admits, "but
it's a tax I view more as a deterrent than a revenue raiser."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Taxing environmentally harmful activities -- be it the
spewing of sulfur dioxide into the air or the manufacture of
paper without using recycled pulp -- is looking increasingly
attractive on Capitol Hill, as both a means of raising
billions in revenue and a way of enhancing the environment.
"Keep an eye on environmental taxes," Ronald Pearlman, chief
of staff of the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation,
advised tax lawyers recently.
   The idea is likely to come up in the current budget
negotiations between the Bush administration and Congress,
and a number of people expect any major deficit-reduction
package this year will include some kind of environmental
tax. Even if the summit talks fail, environmental taxes are
likely to stay on the table in the coming years. "It could be
a big area for tax legislation this year or the next several
years," Mr. Pearlman predicts.
   Many lawmakers agree. "Clearly that's the direction the
chairman of our committee is heading," says Rep. William
Archer of Texas, the ranking Republican on the tax-writing
House Ways and Means Committee.
   Rep. Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, the influential Ways
and Means chairman, has called for $3.2 billion in
unspecified environmental taxes next fiscal year as part of a
plan to pare the budget deficit. The Congressional Budget
Office estimates about $22 billion could be raised in the
next five years through a tax on sulfur-dioxide and
nitrogen-oxide emissions -- industrial pollutants that cause
acid rain.
   At least a dozen pieces of legislation have been
introduced in Congress this year using the tax code to crack
down on a range of perceived environmental evils, including
sulfur-dioxide, nitrogen-oxide and carbon-dioxide emissions,
polystyrene packaging, lumber cut from old redwoods, and
products made with unrecycled lumber, paper, plastics or
glass.
   Revenue estimates haven't been completed for many of the
proposals, but joint tax committee economists believe a
number of the levies could raise substantial amounts.
   "Frankly it's money from heaven," says Tom Ochsenschlager,
a partner in the office of federal tax services at the
accounting firm Grant Thornton. "Bush could go on TV with
Millie alongside, pat her on the head, and say this is not a
tax, it's a user fee. And it's only a user fee for those who
pollute the environment. And I'd be just tickled pink if this
tax disappeared because the idea is to change behavior."
   The taxes may not fall solely on big corporate polluters.
Executives of Southern Co., a big utility holding company,
vow to raise electric rates if a proposed tax on
sulfur-dioxide emissions is enacted, meaning consumers would
foot at least part of the bill. "We couldn't absorb those
kinds of numbers," says Larry Westbrook, the company's chief
financial officer. "I'd have to think that whether you're a
steel or a chemical plant or any other business, you can't
absorb costs like this."
   The Bush administration has said it opposes most of the
environmental-tax bills currently in Congress. But it hasn't
slammed the door completely on the idea. Michael Graetz,
deputy assistant Treasury secretary for tax policy, told the
Ways and Means Committee in March that the administration is
studying the possibility of a "virgin materials" tax to
encourage recycling. The idea would be to tax the content of
unrecycled raw materials, such as paper or glass, in
products.
   Mr. Graetz said any environmental tax would have to
satisfy several criteria to gain administration support. For
instance, the levy must address a national -- not a regional
-- problem. And it must be easy to administer. Some committee
members read his remarks as a sign that the administration
could be receptive to some proposals.
   In fact, President Bush has already agreed to an
environmental levy. Last year he signed into law, as part of
budget-reconciliation legislation, a new excise tax on
chlorofluorocarbons, pollutants that drain the earth's
protective ozone layer. Administration aides call this a user
fee, observes an aide to Rep. Fortney Stark (D., Calif.), who
introduced the legislation.
   The tax showed lawmakers that environmental taxes are easy
to raise, adds a Ways and Means aide, noting that there isn't
any public outcry about environmental taxes.
   At least not so far. But industry, still reeling from the
swift approval of the tax on chlorofluorocarbons, is
beginning to mobilize. The day after Earth Day, 46
representatives of some of the nation's largest industries
met in the downtown Washington offices of the National
Association of Manufacturers to plan a lobbying assault on
what they fear may be a growing trend in taxation.
   "We don't want environmental taxes to be included in the
chairman's {proposals} for budget reconciliation," says
Monica McGuire, director of taxation at the manufacturers
association. But, she adds, "It's a hard tax to defeat."
   That's partly because its a hard tax to fight. Political
lines tend to be drawn by region rather than party. Some
people say that industries that aren't affected by the
proposal don't seem interested in expending much effort to
fight them.
   But many companies are incensed by the prospect of a new
pollution tax on top of stringent new regulations soon to be
enacted with the massive clean-air legislation currently
moving through Congress. Southern Co., which provides power
to four southeastern states, estimates that legislation
introduced by Rep. Stark to tax sulfur-dioxide emissions from
utility companies would cost the company $18 billion by 2013
on top of the extra $15 billion the company expects it will
have to pay during that period to comply with the clean-air
law.
   The double whammy, says Mr. Westbrook, is unfair. "We're
talking about an awesome thing that hits us and hits our
customers."
   Industry's main line of attack paints environmental taxes
as a foe of U.S. competitiveness. "An environmental tax, no
matter how you cut it, by and large taxes U.S.-based
production," says Robert Hill, associate director of taxation
for the Chemical Manufacturers Association. "It's absolutely
detrimental to our competitiveness."
   Such arguments have sunk in with some lawmakers. "I for
one think we've got to be awfully careful how we move in this
direction because of concern for the macroeconomic impact,"
Rep. Archer says.
   But Rep. Stark, the author of several environmental-tax
proposals, insists: "As long as care is given to setting the
right tax level, taxes based on environmental degradation
offer the potential of redirecting our economy to a more
efficient allocation of resources, as well as generating
significant revenues."
   ---
                Estimated Annual Revenue from
                Possible Environmental Taxes
                                                                                                       

                                                 ANNUAL
                                                REVENUE*
 TAX                                         (In billions)
                                                                                                       

 $250 per ton on nitrogen-oxide
  emissions from utilities and factories          $2.1
                                                                                                       

 $150 per ton on sulfur-dioxide
  emissions from utilities and factories           2.6

 One-time charge on new vehicles for
  estimated pollution emissions rates              2.8
                                                                                                       

 50 cents per pound on water pollutants            2.4
                                                                                                       

 $28 per ton of carbon in fossil fuels            33.2
                                                                                                       

 *When fully in effect
                                                                                                       

 Source: Congressional Budget Office
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mellon Bank Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MEL MTOR
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Mellon Bank Corp. said it completed the
purchase of 54 branch offices in the Philadelphia area from
Meritor Savings Bank for about $335 million.
   Under the agreement, Mellon assumed deposits of about $5.2
billion and acquired assets of approximately $4.9 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mellon, a bank holding company, said it will finance the
transaction by using the proceeds from its recent Series H
preferred stock issuance and by applying proceeds from the
sale of its Mellon Financial Services, a Chicago-based
consumer finance business. That sale is expected to close in
June 1990.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada's Consumer Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada's consumer price index rose a seasonally
adjusted 0.1% in April from March, Statistics Canada, a
federal agency, said.
   The April rise followed increases of 0.3% in March, 0.5%
in February and 0.8% in January.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hertz Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   F WNEWS X.HRZ
</CO>
<LP>
   HERTZ Corp. (Park Ridge, N.J.) -- Robert J. Bailey, 55
years old, was named senior vice president, quality assurance
and administration, of this car-rental company. Mr. Bailey
previously was division vice president, Oklahoma City
operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Comstock Begins Public Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   CMRE
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Comstock Resources Inc. said it commenced a
public offering of 2.5 million of common shares for $5.75
each.
   The company said proceeds will be used to repay part of
its $9.8 million in bank debt, continue development of 95 oil
and gas wells near Amarillo, Texas, and acquire additional
oil and gas properties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Eppler, Guerin &amp; Turner Inc., Dallas, is managing the
underwriting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Golden West Unit Transaction
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   GDW
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   OAKLAND, Calif. -- World Savings &amp; Loan Association said
it acquired $725 million of deposits of American Savings,
Colorado Springs, Colo., from the Resolution Trust Corp., a
federal agency.
   World Savings is a subsidiary of Golden West Financial
Corp. Terms of the deal weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Computer Makers Agree on a Standard
   For New Memory Cards for Laptops
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM NIPNY J.TOS MSFT J.FUT LOTS ATC
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Laptop personal computers that weigh much less
and run much longer on batteries than current popular models
have taken a giant step toward mass market use, industry
officials say.
   Virtually all the major Japanese and American hardware
makers, as well as key software companies, agreed in meetings
here this month on industrywide standards for integrated
circuit memory cards, credit-card-sized replacements or
supplements for floppy and hard disks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An IC memory-card standard allows card-makers to produce
the same pieces, and software houses to write similar
programs, for the whole industry. It also makes it easier for
users to work with different brands. Those factors all help
create the critical mass necessary to attract hardware and
software companies, and to drive unit prices down.
   "Everybody in the industry has been waiting for this
standard," says Tom Shigeta, senior staff manager of OEM
sales for Microsoft Co.'s Japan office. An official agreement
will be released by the beginning of June.
   The technology still faces other hurdles, however, most
notably a price much higher than the market rate for floppy
disks.
   The standards committee includes representatives from
International Business Machines Corp. and Japan's largest
personal computer and semiconductor makers, such as NEC
Corp., Toshiba Corp. and Fujitsu Ltd. Microsoft and Lotus
Development Corp. also played a major role in the
discussions.
   The agreement doesn't require the participants to match
the standard. But many companies interviewed said they plan
to introduce personal computers based on the agreement within
the next two years. Most said they didn't want to be
identified because they don't want to reveal future product
plans. Fujitsu displayed a prototype memory-card machine at
an electronics show in Tokyo last week, and company officials
said they hope to sell such a machine in less than two years.
   "By this December, there will be half a dozen {IC
card-based} PCs, some of the notebook type, others of the
pocket type," says Daniel Sternglass, president of Databook
Inc., an Ithaca, N.Y., peripherals company active in working
on the standard.
   Currently, NEC, Atari Corp., and Poqet Computer Corp.,
Sunnyvale, Calif., which is 38%-owned by Fujitsu, make
computers using IC cards instead of disks, while many makers
sell machines that use cards in addition to disks. Several
electronic notebooks or organizers, such as the Wizard made
by Sharp Corp., also use IC memory-card technology. Of those
machines, only the Poqet machine currently is close to the
new standard.
   IC memory cards eliminate the need for moving parts in
disk drives, cutting weight, energy use, and increasing
durability. Some companies say such machines could be made at
one to five pounds, compared with five to 10 pounds for most
current laptop machines. Many laptops drain their
rechargeable batteries within three hours. The Poqet PC
claims to run up to 100 hours on two AA-sized batteries,
although many analysts say it's too small to be considered a
true personal computer.
   Such attributes are considered increasingly important as
the industry heads toward greater portability, spurred by a
wave of light laptops in the past year. In Japan, some
studies estimate that laptops, which had only a negligible
share of the PC market two years ago, could account for as
much as half of the market by 1992.
   "PCs are getting smaller and smaller, lighter and
lighter," says Hiromi Yamamoto, a Toshiba technology
engineering manager. "Sometime in the future, a floppy disk
may be too big, and a new media will be required."
   For now, IC cards are still very expensive. IC cards can
cost around $20, while comparable floppy disks sell for about
50 cents, some officials say. Some estimate costs will have
to be cut by one-tenth to make the technology commercially
viable. As a result, "many systems makers are probably still
skeptical," says Keiichi Adachi, an NEC engineering manager
who helped develop the hardware standard.
   Advocates of IC memory cards say its advantages will
persuade users to pay a higher price. They also say costs
will come down as sales volume increases, and as technologies
improve.
   The Japanese companies, represented by the Japan
Electronic Industry Development Association, and the American
companies, represented by the PC Memory Card International
Association, have agreed on physical standards for the cards
-- such as the dimensions and the number of pins -- and a
basic operating system, compatible with Microsoft's MS-DOS
and Digital Research Co.'s DR-DOS. Negotiations are
continuing on other features, such as making the software
execute on the memory card, but the companies say they expect
an agreement on some of those aspects by the end of the
month, and the rest by September.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   WPPSS to Sell Bonds in June
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   RICHLAND, Wash. -- Washington Public Power Supply System
said it plans to sell $600 million of refunding revenue bonds
in the first week of June.
   WPPSS defaulted in 1983 on $2.25 billion of bonds, the
largest default in municipal bond history. This will be its
second bond sale this year. The new securities, which will
range in maturity from two years to 27 years, involve WPPSS
units 2 and 3, which didn't default. First Boston Corp. is
senior manager.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merchants Capital
   Banking Subsidiary
   Declared Insolvent
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   MCBKA BKB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- MerchantsBank of Boston, the main subsidiary of
Merchants Capital Corp., was declared insolvent and its $350
million in assets placed under control of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.
   The eight branches of MerchantsBank will reopen today as
offices of Bank of Boston Corp., the state's largest
commercial bank. Bank of Boston said it paid the FDIC $7
million for MerchantsBank's $340 million in deposits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The failure of MerchantsBank, a Massachusetts-chartered
cooperative bank, marks the second insolvency at a
Boston-area financial institution in the past three weeks.
Late last month, federal thrift regulators took control of
Home Owners Savings Bank in Burlington, Mass.
   Douglas Clark, the FDIC official put in charge of
MerchantsBank after Massachusetts regulators declared the
bank insolvent Friday afternoon, said the agency will sell
off the bank's assets. Mr. Clark said recent financial
statements indicate MerchantsBank had negative net worth of
about $11.3 million. But he said agency officials must now
re-examine the value of the assets, comprised mainly of real
estate loans. "I suspect the {ultimate} loss will be greater
than $11.3 million," Mr. Clark said.
   Mr. Clark and Andrew Calamare, Massachusetts commissioner
of banks, said MerchantsBank represented substantially all of
the assets of Merchants Capital.
   John Lakian, chairman and largest shareholder of Merchants
Capital, couldn't be reached to comment on the government
action, which came after the close of stock market trading on
Friday.
   MerchantsBank stock, which has barely traded in recent
weeks, remained at six cents a share Friday on the national
over-the-counter market. In composite trading on the New York
Stock Exchange, Bank of Boston stock closed at $13 a share,
up 50 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Germans Set Up
   Funds, Sign Pact
   For Unification
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Officials celebrated the "hour
of birth" of a united Germany even as West Germans continued
to calculate how to pay for unification without raising
taxes.
   The West German Finance Ministry rolled out a second 1990
supplementary budget of 4.75 billion marks ($2.88 billion),
including a 2.75 billion mark provision to rescue East
Germany's tottering unemployment and pension systems. The
remaining two billion marks are to be Bonn's first cash
contribution to the 115 billion mark German Unity Fund, set
up last week to help finance East German budget deficits
through 1994.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a first supplementary budget in February, Bonn
allocated 6.87 billion marks to support hundreds of thousands
of East German refugees.
   Separately, the West German central bank Friday announced
a record six billion mark, 10-year government-bond issue. The
issue was seen as the start of a long period of heavy
borrowing to finance other East German support programs.
   At Friday's signing ceremony in Bonn of the treaty to
merge the two German economies and social systems on July 2,
government leaders were upbeat. "What we are experiencing
here is the hour of birth of a free and united Germany," West
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl said.
   East German Premier Lothar de Maiziere, responding to
widespread anxiety in East Germany, said: "I only find it
amazing that in various parts of Germany there are more
worries than hopes." East German farmers and industry workers
fear mass unemployment if their border is thrown open to free
market competition with Western producers.
   In an important appendix to the treaty, East Germany
agreed to permit foreigners to buy land for commercial
purposes, despite fears of a wholesale buy-out of their
country. Bonn set the condition of foreign private ownership
as a prerequisite for the treaty, arguing that only industry
investment in East Germany can provide for full economic
recovery.
   Predictions of other East German funding programs in the
future have swelled fears of tax increases and rising
inflation after the West German mark is introduced as East
Germany's currency.
   But Finance Minister Theo Waigel sought to allay those
concerns. "We would be taking leave of our senses if we
crippled a well-functioning {West German} economy with
increased taxes," he said during the weekend.
   Indeed, Bonn is counting on West Germany's bustling
economy to help pay for East German relief. Humming along at
a 4% growth rate, West German business activity is expected
to generate 8.2 billion marks more in tax revenue than
originally planned. The Finance Ministry said the windfall
could hold Bonn's 1990 budget deficit to 30.9 billion marks,
compared with an earlier projected 32.9 billion marks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Michaels Stores
   Sees Earnings
   Near Estimates
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6G
</SO>
<CO>
   MKE
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   IRVING, Texas -- Michaels Stores Inc. is comfortable with
analysts' estimates that it will report net income of about
$450,000, or four cents a share, for the first quarter ended
April 29, said B.B. Tuley, president and chief executive
officer.
   Michaels, an arts and crafts retailer, had net of
$408,000, or four cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. The
company previously reported that first-quarter sales rose
27.5% to $71.7 million from $56.2 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Tuley said Michaels is hopeful that it will report
record earnings this year after a dismal fiscal 1990.
   In fiscal 1990, Michaels had net of $13,000, essentially
breaking even after taking about $4 million in pretax charges
to reflect a failed acquisition. The retailer also added
about $1.5 million to its reserves in case it decides to
close some stores. Sales were $289.8 million.
   Mr. Tuley said Michaels expects to grow 15% to 20% this
year, in part by opening 18 stores. Michaels had 121 stores
at the end of 1989.
   Last year, Michaels agreed to be acquired for $9.50 a
share in cash and $2.50 in new preferred stock by an
investment group that included the Robert M. Bass Group of
Fort Worth, Texas, and Grauer &amp; Wheat Investments Inc. of
Dallas. But the offer fell apart when the group acknowledged
that it couldn't sell the junk bonds to finance the deal. Mr.
Tuley said the company hadn't been looking for a buyer, but
its directors accepted the transaction because it would have
offered a premium over the stock price.
   Now, he says, "we're not for sale."
   This year, Michaels is to open its first stores in Florida
and Mississippi, giving it stores in almost every state in
the southern half of the country.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Graying of UAW Is Key Issue Union
   Faces as It Prepares for Negotiations
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR GM F C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- When the United Auto Workers held a conclave
here last month, the best-selling item at a booth outside the
meeting room was a T-shirt that read: "My Grandaddy is a UAW
Member." It easily outsold another shirt that made the same
boast about "My Daddy."
   The incident reflects the significant aging of the union's
ranks, which has been viewed as a big disadvantage by the Big
Three auto makers and by the UAW itself. But now, oddly
enough, this situation is shaping up as a potential solution
to the union's dearest goal: job security.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   UAW leaders gather today in Kansas City, Mo., to map out
strategy for this summer's national contract talks with the
Big Three. And it is clear that getting more older workers to
retire would help deliver the productivity gains that the Big
Three auto makers seek.
   It also would make it easier for the auto makers to give
stronger job guarantees to the younger members who are vital
to the union's future, says Harley Shaiken, a labor expert at
the University of California at San Diego. "You have an aging
work force, so the conditions of retirement are ever more
central to the union's demands," he says.
   Certainly, the union's previous attempts to guarantee job
security haven't worked. The current agreement includes a ban
on plant closings. But it hasn't stopped General Motors Corp.
and Chrysler Corp. from closing factories. The union's
efforts to develop cooperative programs with management
haven't stopped layoffs, either. Even company officials are
frustrated.
   "I would hope we would find the answers" to the
job-security issue in the forthcoming negotiations, says Lee
A. Iacocca, Chrysler's chairman. "I don't have the answers
yet. I hope we get some this summer."
   Now, some are arguing it is time to let nature take its
course. The demographic phenomenon overtaking the UAW is
clear. The average age of UAW employees at Big Three
companies is 45 years. More importantly, about 12% of the
blue-collar labor force is over 55 years of age. Another 20%
of GM's workers have 25 years of service and could leave by
1995.
   What is dividing the UAW's ranks is the issue of how to
encourage some of its grandfathers (and grandmothers) to give
up their jobs so that younger members can hold on to theirs.
   The current UAW contract requires the Big Three to hire
one new worker for every two who retire. If that clause were
eliminated, GM could reduce its work force by 4% to 6% a year
without layoffs.
   But that's not good enough for many older UAW members.
About 7% of the 300,000 UAW members who work for GM have the
requisite 30 years seniority to retire right now. But many of
these workers don't want to go unless they can get bigger
pensions. They form the core of a burgeoning movement among
UAW members pushing at this week's convention to make
cost-of-living adjustments to pensions a top priority in the
upcoming talks.
   "COLA on pensions is the only way you can get true job
security for the younger workers," says James Hale, leader of
the pension COLA movement. The 57-year-old Mr. Hale is an
example. He's been employed for 33 years at a GM parts plant
in Flint and could retire with a full pension today -- but he
won't. "I don't want to go out there on a fixed income," he
says.
   Mr. Hale says he's confident he can win on a roll call
vote at this week's convention. His cause gained a lot of
momentum when GM revealed that it wants to double the
pensions of 3,350 top executives, including soon-to-retire
Chairman Roger B. Smith.
   But even if Mr. Hale scores a victory this week, the auto
makers will insist they can't afford fatter pensions, and the
union's top leadership agrees.
   "I'm not opposed to increasing pensions, but I am opposed
to bankrupting the company that you've got to work for," says
Gary Watson, chairman of the union's GM bargaining council.
   UAW leaders argue that in the long run, they must help the
Big Three compete with the growing Japanese-operated
factories in the U.S., or risk seeing their union dwindle
even further.
   Despite more than three years of layoffs and plant
closings, GM's assembly plants have nearly five workers for
every car built, 48% more than the 3.36 workers per car Ford
Motor Co. has, according to a recent report by consultant
James Harbour. Chrysler uses an average 4.21 workers per car
per day at its assembly plants, 25% more than Ford. The U.S.
operations of Japanese auto makers have a similar or greater
productivity edge over GM and Chrysler.
   Because its plants are already running at or above 100% of
normal capacity, Ford could be in a better position to give
the UAW the kinds of job guarantees it wants than its
cross-town rivals -- just as it was in 1987. Indeed, Ford
executives are all but sending an engraved invitation to UAW
leaders to select them as the target for setting the contract
pattern this fall.
   A hefty agreement for the UAW at Ford could be a problem
for GM. "Ford could agree to some job security provisions
that we can't. And when they would bring them to us, then we
would have a strike on our hands," one GM official worries.
   But GM officials sounded similar warnings three years ago,
only to discover that the job protections ratified at Ford
weren't as tough as they looked.
   No matter which of the Big Three the UAW ultimately
selects to set the pattern, the union's demands for job
protections will be countered with company proposals aimed at
getting less resistance and more work from union employees.
   Top UAW leaders have backed away in recent months from
their once-enthusiastic line on labor-management cooperation,
or "jointness." This is partly a show of dismay that
"jointness" hasn't stopped GM or Chrysler from closing
factories. But it is also aimed at blunting internal
political pressure from UAW dissidents who label "jointness,"
a sellout.
   In recent local elections, UAW leaders failed in their
efforts to dislodge some of their more vocal and visible
critics in local union halls. Workers at GM's Buick City
assembly plant in Flint, for example, recently re-elected a
local union president who pledges to go slow on cooperative
endeavors. The Flint plant is one of GM's most efficient
facilities, and the plant's flagship product, the Buick
LeSabre, last year was named the highest-quality car built in
America by the influential consulting firm of J.D. Power and
Associates.
   GM's rank and file also voted in favor of labor militants
at GM's assembly plant in Lake Orion Mich., where the company
produces Cadillacs and Oldsmobiles, some of its most
profitable models.
   These local leaders could cause trouble for UAW president
Owen Bieber this week and during the contract talks this
fall. But Mr. Bieber is clearly banking on support from the
many local leaders who've concluded that, like it or not,
they must cooperate with management to survive.
   Consider what is happening at GM's Lordstown, Ohio, plant,
which was so plagued by labor strife during the 1970s that it
became a symbol of worker alienation.
   After GM announced that it would stop building full-size
vans at Lordstown next year, and eliminate half the jobs at
the facility, Lordstown workers voted to let GM run the car
assembly line continuously, except for a lunch break.
Previously, GM had to stop the line twice a day for 23-minute
morning and afternoon breaks. The new arrangement, "puts us
in the forefront of consideration for any new product
allocation in the future," says Lordstown union leader Bill
Bowers.
   Declares Buddy Stewart, a UAW leader from Texas: "If you
had a choice, would you put a new product in a place where
the union membership is not getting along with the
management? Hell no] That's just good business sense."
   ---
                     An Aging Membership
                                                                                                       

 Composition, by age, of the UAW's `Big Three' employees
                                                                                                       

              40-50                     52.6%

              55 and over               11.9%
                                                                                                       

 Source: United Auto Workers union
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Operating System:
   Opening of `Windows'
   Shows How Bill Gates
   Succeeds in Software
   ---
   Microsoft Founder Bargains,
   Frets, Badgers Engineers
   And Never Tires of Games
   ---
   An Early Zeal for Capitalism
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MSFT AAPL IBM
</CO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   REDMOND, Wash. -- Even when William Gates III loses, he
seems to win.
   Tomorrow, the Microsoft Corp. co-founder will demonstrate
this neat trick when he unveils a program that makes it far
easier for 40 million users of personal computers to run
their machines. The program, called Windows 3.0, promises to
increase Microsoft's already-soaring profits and cement Mr.
Gates's position as the single most influential figure in the
computer industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yet its success comes in part from the miserable
performance of Microsoft's most ambitious project ever, a new
personal-computer operating system called OS/2. That system,
introduced three years ago with the backing of mighty
International Business Machines Corp., today languishes,
showing few signs of catching on. But Microsoft doesn't
languish with it.
   For even as he was developing OS/2, Mr. Gates kept
tinkering with his "Windows," a program Microsoft had
announced seven years ago. While competitors long paid
Windows little heed -- even ridiculed it -- Mr. Gates
gradually improved its power and ease of use as a new type of
command system.
   With snazzy graphics and the power to display numerous
programs on the screen at once, Windows accommodates existing
PC applications yet uses computer memory and power more
efficiently, making less-expensive PCs more useful. Now,
dozens of computer manufacturers are ready to announce that
they will buy the new Windows (it's $150 if purchased alone)
from Microsoft and give a copy to every buyer of their
machines.
   Analysts expect Windows-related products to generate at
least $350 million of sales for Microsoft in the next year.
The new Windows will strengthen the software company even
more in its rivalry with Lotus Development Corp., a firm that
hit a snag over the weekend when its merger with Novell Inc.
fell through
   The big loser in all of this could be Apple Computer Inc.,
whose own easy-to-use Macintosh command system, using menus
and images, made that machine a huge success. Apple is suing
Microsoft, claiming Windows is too close to Macintosh
software.
   Mr. Gates's long struggle to make Windows work reflects
traits not often combined in a business leader: technological
vision, a love of crafty dealmaking and an obsessive, almost
childlike personality, which drives him to seek every
possible edge. He manages to motivate employees and provoke a
flow of ideas even though he often harshly criticizes workers
face to face.
   Despite his lack of tact, he forges alliances with rival
companies, overcoming occasional charges that he is ruthless
and takes unfair advantage of a potential conflict of
interest: Microsoft both supplies the basic operating
software that producers of applications programs need, and
sells rival applications.
   Mr. Gates hates to lose. "Some of the fiercest competition
he feels is a race with his older sister to finish a
300-piece puzzle," says his mother, Mary. "That's as exciting
to him as putting out a new piece of software."
   In Microsoft's early years, Mr. Gates was plagued by
periods of doubt or depression. "There were certainly lots of
occasions when his attitude was everything is going to hell
in a handbasket," says his father, William Gates II. His mood
has been more upbeat for the past three years, buoyed by
Microsoft's huge success as both a setter of computing
standards and a purveyor of applications. Today the
34-year-old Mr. Gates, as the owner of 35.8% of Microsoft, is
a multibillionaire.
   Yet he remains a nonstop worrier. He often rocks himself
in a chair during meetings to contain his intensity. (He says
the habit has its roots in a boyhood overuse of a cradle and
a rocking horse.) A workaholic, he can count on one hand the
vacations he's taken in the past decade.
   Why this racehorse pace? He is convinced that in an
industry changing so rapidly, missed opportunities are
irretrievably lost -- that there won't be many second chances
in his quest to occupy computing's catbird seat. He is still
gripped with a fear he'll end up as an also-ran by missing
the next major technical wave or failing to hire a seminal
programmer. "You always have to be thinking about who is
coming to get you," he says.
   Microsoft's past blunders also make Mr. Gates anxious. The
company mishandled its entry into the business of making
software that ties PCs together; it now plans to offer an
improved product and revamp its sales effort. A long campaign
to get manufacturers to include an optical storage device as
a basic part of the PC hasn't borne fruit. And Microsoft
decided to scrap the release of its first data-base
management product because so far it isn't distinctive
enough.
   "I'd say there's as much stuff screwed up now {at
Microsoft} as there always is," Mr. Gates frets.
   Paranoia aside, he was probably born to be a high-tech
tycoon. He has always single-mindedly pursued his own goals.
His mother used to tell him he couldn't afford gambling at
cards, but "he didn't pay a bit of attention, like he never
did since he was eight," she says. He also wouldn't pick up
his clothes, even when his parents began taking them away
from him. "We finally got down to the point where the only
rule was `close the door' " of his room, his father recalls.
"And he wouldn't always do that."
   Even as a teen-ager, he was driven to cut deals. Before
finishing high school he ran two small software businesses,
one providing a payroll program and one interpreting traffic
data. Mr. Gates always had trouble taking a no from a
customer. He once demonstrated his traffic device to a
Seattle official in his mother's dining room. When it crashed
and the official lost interest, "I remember Bill pleading
with me: `Tell him, Mom, tell him it really works]' " Mrs.
Gates says.
   At 21, he showed a zeal for capitalism that astonished his
hacker peers. Personal computing was dominated those days by
social rebels suspicious of the profit motive. But when
enthusiasts copied his personal-computer version of BASIC
computer language without paying him royalties, he wrote a
stinging denunciation in a leading newsletter, calling them
thieves.
   He's still consumed with business, and his father fears
"there are aspects of his life he's defaulting on, like being
a father." Mr. Gates is single and lives austerely save for
his expensive cars. "We'd love to see Bill get married and
have a few kids," says Willard E. Peterson, executive vice
president of WordPerfect Corp. "We'd love to see him mellow
out."
   Fat chance. He is currently plotting to put his operating
systems into fax machines and electronic notepads, and he
wants Microsoft to excel in supplying databases, networking
and home-entertainment software as well. "His goal is to
dominate every aspect of computing," says Mitch Kapor,
another software pioneer.
   Some of Mr. Gates's rivals fear his competitive cunning,
suspecting that he induced them to throw their resources into
developing applications for OS/2 while he made hay producing
Windows applications -- and then improved Windows so much
they couldn't ignore it. Software firms could "never be more
leery than they already are" about Microsoft's intentions,
says Jim Manzi, CEO of Lotus.
   Mr. Gates denies misleading competitors, and argues that
for years Microsoft encouraged software firms to write for
Windows. Some, such as Lotus, didn't do so, and now can't
quickly exploit growing demand for Windows programs. In
contrast, Microsoft is likely to sell $244 million worth of
Windows applications in its fiscal year beginning July 1,
predicts Shearson Lehman Hutton. Sales of the main program
may total $100 million.
   Still, the drive to establish a following for Windows --
even while developing OS/2 for IBM -- almost cost Mr. Gates
his prized relationship with the computer giant. Mr. Gates,
who had co-founded Microsoft in 1976, didn't come to real
prominence until four years later when he supplied the MS-DOS
operating program for IBM's first PC. The IBM link helped
Microsoft set the most important PC standards, spawning an
entire industry around its MS-DOS operating software. The
standard allowed personal computers made by IBM competitors
to run the same word processors, spreadsheets or other
applications.
   "It's sort of like we're this IBM lab that they don't own
or control," says Jon Shirley, who is Microsoft's president
(he's retiring soon). "Yet they have to work with us as if
we're one of their own."
   But on the question of how to make PCs easier to use, IBM
almost parted ways with Mr. Gates. MS-DOS is notoriously
complex, so in 1983 he began work on a new approach to
controlling PCs, similar to the Apple Macintosh's. By slicing
up the screen into separate and movable sections, or windows,
it also lets a user switch easily from task to task.
   For years, IBM ignored this "Windows," instead paying
Microsoft generously to help it produce the new OS/2
operating system. But last November, under pressure from
customers disenchanted with OS/2, IBM said people with older
or less expensive PCs should use Windows, whose following was
already broadening.
   Even today, Mr. Gates's relationship with IBM is stormy,
and he can't always get Big Blue to stick with Microsoft to
the exclusion of rivals. In February, IBM said publicly that
it would offer its new family of workstations with a piece of
system software made by Steve Jobs's Next Inc. instead of
Microsoft. The next month, IBM decided not to use Microsoft
printer software for its full range of computers.
   Though his ties with IBM are most useful, Mr. Gates's
power rests even more in his ability to patch together
alliances of warring industry factions. "Even Microsoft can't
unilaterally impose standards on the industry," says Michael
Swavely, president of Compaq Computer Corp.'s North American
operations. So Mr. Gates tries to strike accords with most
everyone of importance in the industry, making himself the
focal point of most attempts to create standards for new
computer technologies.
   But he sometimes trips on his complex web, frustrating
allies. For instance, executives at Hewlett-Packard Co. were
stunned last year when Microsoft struck a deal with Apple to
jointly develop printer software, even though Apple has a
suit pending against Microsoft. H-P has its own approach to
printer software, which it considers worthy of Microsoft's
support. Yet Microsoft didn't even warn H-P of the impending
deal.
   Mr. Gates is a tough negotiator. Even if Microsoft thinks
it can improve its operating software with code developed by
outsiders, it won't pay a royalty. "It's just bad business,"
Mr. Gates says, because he must sell his operating software
cheaply. Though it rankles, some companies agree to forgo
cash.
   Last year, for instance, Mr. Gates tried to strike a deal
with Adobe Systems Inc., which sells software to control the
size and shape of computerized type. Microsoft asked Adobe
for the right to include these programs in its operating
software, arguing that a linkup might vastly expand Adobe's
markets -- but not offering any royalty money. Adobe refused.
Within months, in what amounted to a declaration of war
against Adobe, Mr. Gates joined with Apple to produce its own
solution.
   But rather than bullying rivals, Mr. Gates often gains an
edge simply by outlasting or outsmarting them. Phillipe Kahn,
CEO of Borland International Inc., phoned Mr. Gates last
month when he learned Microsoft had hired his chief of
research. Mr. Kahn accused Mr. Gates of violating an
agreement not to steal each other's employees. The deal had
expired, Mr. Gates said. Mr. Kahn protested, but only until a
check of his own records proved Mr. Gates right.
   Mr. Gates can rattle off the specifications of dozens of
competing products and is known to recite claims made in
competitors' ads. He's always loath to surrender a sale. Last
month, hearing that a Wall Street firm was considering the
rival Unix operating system over OS/2, he met with the firm's
principals and persuaded them to delay until he could
personally deliver another pitch.
   His persistence isn't lost on Microsoft's executives. Last
fall he publicly said that his product managers ought to wake
up thinking about their main competitor and even to know his
or her children's names and birth dates. Taking no chances,
Jeff Raikes, manager of the word-processing business, asked
his counterpart at WordPerfect to send him the information.
Mr. Raikes now keeps a photo of the competitor's children in
his office and has memorized their birthdays, in case Mr.
Gates inquires.
   Sales may be an obsession with Mr. Gates, but writing code
is closest to his heart. Discussions with Microsoft engineers
resemble a legal proceeding, with Mr. Gates as prosecuting
attorney. Often, he begins by asking simple questions, then
insists he understands a problem better than those assigned
to solve it. At one recent meeting, he described a program as
"the stupidest piece of code ever written," repeatedly noting
that a tiny competitor had done a better job.
   Yet he doesn't insist engineers stand on ceremony. At the
same meeting, one cradled a football while another flipped
through a computer magazine. A third rebutted several of Mr.
Gates's points with no show of reverence. Engineers tend to
be loyal to Mr. Gates because he shares their concerns and
their sense of humor.
   Even though Microsoft now has 5,000 employees, Mr. Gates
keeps in contact with its engineers by dispatching memos over
the company's electronic mail network, sometimes as many as
30 in a day. After reading one a year ago, Lloyd Frink
started a project to develop software for notepad computers
that recognize handwriting. The project involves just seven
people and is one of dozens like it at Microsoft, yet Mr.
Gates regularly gives tips to Mr. Frink.
   Talk that Mr. Gates might someday tire of his regimen of
round-the-clock meetings and incessant travel is dismissed by
close associates. While he is less likely to indulge his
emotions these days, little else about him has changed. Says
David Marquardt, a Microsoft director: "My great hope is that
Bill will never grow up."
   Maybe he won't. He still loves games. As a child, he
played cards with his sisters to determine who did the
dishes. Now, each summer Mr. Gates, his parents and two
sisters hold a competition called "Microgames" at a summer
house. The family invites about 90 people and divides them
into six teams, which battle it out in a series of events
while the Gateses look on as judges.
   Bill's favorite last year was a contest to build the best
sand castle. He trucked in six tons of sand for the event.
   ---
              Microsoft's Financial Wizardry
                                                                                                       

               Applications Lead the Way...
                                                                                                       

   1990 Revenue by business segment
   TOTAL: $1.1 billion
                                                                                                       

   Applications
   Includes word processing, spread sheets .......... 52%
                                                                                                       

   System Software
   MS-DOS, Windows, OS/2 and Languages .............. 37%
                                                                                                       

   Hardware ......................................... 11%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Montgomery Securities
                                                                                                       

                   Propelling Growth...
                                                                                                       

   4-year average annual revenue growth rate, in percent
                                                                                                       

   Oracle Systems Corp.* ............................ 65.2%
                                                                                                       

   Microsoft Corp.* ................................. 53.4%
                                                                                                       

   Autodesk Inc. .................................... 36.0%
                                                                                                       

   Novell Inc.* ..................................... 28.1%
                                                                                                       

   Lotus Development* ............................... 15.3%
                                                                                                       

   *Estimate: Montgomery Securities
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Accounting for Congress?
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Census Bureau can't explain the low rate of census
forms that have been filled out and returned; it's about 75%
nationwide, down from nearly 90% a decade ago. Some say it's
apathy, but we say it was a marketing error. The Census
Bureau warned in grave tones that if people failed to return
their forms, they could lose congressional representation.
What a brier patch. The prospect of fewer congressional seats
might seem like an even better alternative than the proposed
12-year-term limitation for Congressmen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   VA to Give Benefits
   To Vietnam Veterans
   With Some Cancers
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (VET)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Department of Veterans Affairs for the
first time acknowledged a link between cancer and exposure to
Agent Orange, a herbicide used in the Vietnam War, and
announced it will pay disability benefits to Vietnam veterans
with soft-tissue sarcomas.
   In March, the VA said it would grant disability benefits
to Vietnam veterans with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, another rare
cancer. It was the first time the government recognized a
connection between cancer and service in Southeast Asia. That
conclusion was based on a Centers for Disease Control study
that found a correlation between non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and
service in Vietnam.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the CDC study didn't find any connection betwen
exposure to Agent Orange and cancer. Veterans groups have
long contended that exposure to Agent Orange has led to a
higher incidence of cancer among Vietnam veterans, and in its
ruling Friday, the VA department conceded that there may be
such a connection.
   The latest decision rejects part of the CDC study, which
didn't find a link between service in Vietnam and five other
cancers, including soft-tissue sarcomas. But a VA advisory
committee reviewed scientific literature on the connection
between soft-tissue sarcomas and exposure to herbicides
containing dioxin and recommended that cancers be considered
service-connected and eligible for benefits.
   The ruling by VA Secretary Edward Derwinski means that
approximately 1,100 veterans or their survivors will qualify
for compensation. The department estimates it will recognize
an additional 50 new claims a year for soft-tissue sarcomas,
which are difficult-to-diagnose tumors found on muscles and
connective tissue or in body fat. The VA projects it will pay
about $8 million a year as a result of the decision.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Vishay Intertechnology Is Set to Make
   A Friendly Bid for Crystalate Holdings
   ----
   By Frank Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7B
</SO>
<CO>
   VSH U.CRY
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MALVERN, Pa. -- Vishay Intertechnology Inc. has decided to
make a "white knight" offer to acquire Crystalate Holdings
PLC, Felix Zandman, chairman, president and chief executive
officer, said.
   Last month, Crystalate asked Vishay to come to its rescue
after TT Group PLC made a hostile bid of about $45 million
for the United Kingdom-based maker of resistors and
automotive sensors. On May 3, Vishay announced that it was
considering making a bid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The decision {to make a competing offer} has been made on
our side," said Mr. Zandman, who is scheduled to begin
further talks with Crystalate executives in the U.K. early
this week. "We don't know yet what the response will be," he
said. But he indicated that Vishay might disclose the terms
of its offer by next Monday. He also implied that he
considers the TT Group bid to be low.
   Crystalate is the parent company of Welwyn Electric in the
U.K. and two U.S. units, International Resistance Co. and
RCL/Shallcross Inc. The parent had sales of about $180
million for the year ended Sept. 30, 1989. Mr. Zandman said
Crystalate hasn't been profitable so far this fiscal year.
   However, he indicated in an interview that acquiring
Crystalate would provide a significant boost to Vishay's
market positions in the U.S. and abroad. For example, Vishay
already has about a 33% share of the U.S. fixed-resistor
market, with $180 million in sales last year. In the same
market, the two U.S. units of Crystalate have a combined
share of about 10.4%.
   Mr. Zandman noted that Vishay's growth rate in the
world-wide market for fixed resistors is about 6% to 7% a
year, compared with only about 4.5% for the industry as a
whole.
   Vishay considers "reasonable" and "in the ballpark" the
recently increased estimates by analysts of 1990 sales and
earnings, Mr. Zandman said.
   For the first quarter, Vishay reported a 49% increase in
net income on a 9% sales gain. The strong performance
exceeded analysts' expectations, and many of them have since
raised their projections for the full year.
   The consensus for sales has jumped to the range of $440
million from $420 million. Fully diluted per-share earnings
are now expected to be in the range of $1.92 to $2.02, up
from about $1.80.
   For 1989, Vishay reported net income of $17.8 million, or
$1.50 a share, on sales of $415.6 million.
   Mr. Zandman said Vishay expects to realize cost-reduction
"synergies" of about $10 million this year through continued
efforts to consolidate sales, distribution and manufacturing
activities in the businesses it has recently acquired. As
examples, he cited consolidations of the company's Dale and
Draloric units' operations in West Germany and of Vishay's
Sfernice activities in England and France that would produce
combined savings of about $4.6 million.
   Moreover, Vishay is beginning to benefit from lower
borrowing costs and general administrative expenses as it
integrates the recent acquisitions and pares debt. In the
latest quarter, for example, general overhead costs fell to
17.3% of sales from 18.2% in the year-earlier period, and
interest expense declined 4%.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Zandman said Vishay hopes to take advantage
of inexpensive manufacturing costs at its plants in Mexico,
South Korea and Morrocco, where wages are low, and in Israel,
where taxes are minimal and the government reimburses the
company for investments in equipment.
   He also indicated that Vishay might sell its large
Sfernice complex in Nice, France, because real estate values
there are so high. The property was appraised last year at
about $12 million, he said, and the local market is "still
rising."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of Italy Key Rate
   Cut One Point to 12.5%
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN, Italy -- The discount rate at the Bank of Italy,
the central bank, was reduced one full percentage point to
12.5%, effective today, in a move aimed at restoring
stability to the European Monetary System, the treasury said.
   The treasury cited development of the Italian economy and
the ad hoc budget-deficit reduction package approved by the
government on Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It was the first time the discount rate -- the interest
rate at which the Bank of Italy lends funds to commercial
banks -- was changed since March 3, 1989, when the central
bank's key rate was raised to 13.5% from 12.5%. Thus, it is a
pivotal indicator of the central bank's monetary policy and
will help commercial banks set their lending rates to the
public. Under Italian law, the treasury decides on changes in
the discount rate, following a recommendation by the Bank of
Italy governor.
   The move didn't surprise financial markets, though many
money-market operators had believed the Bank of Italy would
wait until June before easing its monetary stance.
   The government approved an emergency package of spending
cuts and new revenue measures that will reduce the 1990
budget deficit by 11.75 trillion lire ($9.68 billion) to 136
trillion lire.
   The treasury said the entry of the lira into the narrow,
2.25% band in the European Monetary System in January
triggered a large inflow of foreign capital, which had
"pushed the lira to its upper limit {in the EMS}, despite
conspicuous" interventions by the Bank of Italy. The lira
continued to strengthen, despite a cut in short-term interest
rates this year, which narrowed Italy's interest-rate
differential with other European countries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BN Air Official Spencer
   Arrested Over Rental Car
</HL>
<DATE>
05/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<LP>
   ORLANDO, Fla. -- Scot M. Spencer, a controversial figure
in the demise of Braniff last fall, was arrested here last
week at -- of all things -- a bankruptcy auction of the
defunct airline's assets.
   Mr. Spencer, the subject of a Wall Street Journal page-one
article in November, was arrested Thursday morning on a
charge stemming from his alleged failure to return a rental
car in 1987. He posted a $1,000 bond and was released that
afternoon. The charge is a third-degree felony, Tampa, Fla.,
police said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Spencer, 25 years old, is chief operating officer of
BN Air Inc., a company formed by some of Braniff's former
owners to rebuild the airline.
   He couldn't be reached, but he said in a statement, "This
is a minor matter. The rental car company has confirmed that
the car had been returned. An attorney has been working on
this misunderstanding and is in the process of resolving this
matter." A BN Air spokeswoman said Mr. Spencer informed her
that he wasn't arrested, but that he has posted an appearance
bond.
   However, Orange County, Fla., police officials confirmed
that Mr. Spencer was, in fact, arrested on a two-year-old
outstanding warrant from nearby Tampa, where he was charged
in connection with allegedly failing to return a car he
rented from Hertz Corp. at Tampa International Airport in
late 1987. The rental car contract shows that a blue,
four-door Cadillac Seville was rented to "M. Spencer" and was
to be paid by "Boeing Company." Later, Boeing Co., a
Seattle-based aircraft maker, told Hertz that it didn't have
an employee by that name, according to Hertz records. The car
was found abandoned in 1988 in a Hertz Miami lot shortly
after police had contacted Mr. Spencer's family, according to
Tampa police records.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900521-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900521-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
05/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   MA GPS NAV CPB DI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  May Dept Stores       $ .58  $ .54 (3)  $ .54 (14)    7.41
  Gap Inc                 .60    ...        .56 (10)    7.14
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Navistar Intl         $ .01    ...     $  .03  (6)   66.67
  Campbell Soup           .42    ...        .47  (8)   10.64
  Dresser Industries      .59    ...        .64  (9)    7.81
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
