<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senate Clears
   Ryan to Head
   S&amp;L Regulation
   ---
   Vote Nullifies Court Ruling
   That Derailed Overhaul;
   Wide Margin Surprising
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate approved the nomination of
Timothy Ryan to be the nation's top savings-and-loan
regulator, effectively nullifying a court decision that had
derailed the overhaul of the thrift industry.
   The 62-37 vote confirming Mr. Ryan, a labor lawyer,
followed six hours of debate about whether he is qualified
for a job that governs the financial industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The surprisingly wide margin reflected the pressure to
quickly confirm a director for the Office of Thrift
Supervision. A federal court in Washington ruled recently
that because the current director wasn't approved by the
Senate, his appointment was unconstitutional. Therefore, the
thrift office's future actions, which included government
seizures of hundreds of insolvent thrifts, were put on hold.
   Mr. Ryan, a former Labor Department lawyer and special
counsel to the Bush presidential campaign, succeeds Salvatore
Martoche, who had held the position for just a few weeks. Mr.
Martoche was an interim replacement for Danny Wall, who
announced his resignation in December after a series of
congressional hearings that criticized his handling of the
insolvency of Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan Association, Irvine,
Calif.
   Mr. Ryan takes over after the third consecutive year of
record-breaking losses in the thrift industry and during the
continuing enactment of the complex S&amp;L bailout law. He also
takes over at a thrift office that has narrower authority
than before the S&amp;L law. Dissatisfied with the predecessor
agency, Congress dissolved it and gave its thrift-oversight
duties to the OTS. Once S&amp;Ls become insolvent, the thrift
office turns them over to the Resolution Trust Corp. for sale
or liquidation.
   Mr. Ryan took over as the Resolution Trust Corp. announced
it will put up for bid 87 thrifts, with $35 billion in
assets, under a new, streamlined system of bidding. The
agency, under fire for slow sales of insolvent S&amp;Ls, aims to
have them sold by June 30.
   The new system will allow bidders to make extensive use of
options to return nonperforming investments to the
government. Knowing they won't be stuck with bad assets
indefinitely, bidders can make an assessment of the
institutions more quickly. The government, meanwhile, can get
a better price for the insolvent thrifts, before their
franchise values decline as they languish under government
management. The government would sell the bad assets later.
   In the Senate debate, Mr. Ryan's disclosure that he tried
marijuana and cocaine in the early 1970s was barely
discussed.
   Following the vote, however, Sen. John Danforth (R., Mo.)
called for an investigation by the Senate Ethics Committee
into leaks of Mr. Ryan's report to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, in which he voluntarily disclosed his drug
use. The reports are confidential to the Senate.
   Republicans argued that Mr. Ryan's experience in
enforcement of law was more important that his lack of
experience in the financial industry. "Let's face it," said
Minority Leader Robert Dole of Kansas, "it's the insiders,
the so-called thrift experts, who got us where we are today."
   Mr. Ryan squeaked through the Senate Banking Committee
last week by an 11-10 vote, the day after committee Chairman
Donald Riegle said he doubted there were enough votes to
approve his nomination. Mr. Riegle said that nearly every
senator had been called by the Treasury Department, which
pressed for the candidate. "If a fraction of the time had
been spent finding a fully qualified nominee that's been
spent trying to push this nominee through, they'd have found
one," he said.
   Mr. Ryan will also be a member of the boards of the
Resolution Trust Corp. and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.
   It's rare that a presidential nominee is turned back by
the Senate, but the vote was more lopsided than expected.
Democratic leaders Sens. Lloyd Bentsen of Texas and Daniel
Moynihan of New York voted with the president.
   While 17 Democrats voted for Mr. Ryan, some warned that
the slow-moving S&amp;L bailout -- $166 billion and growing -- is
becoming a Bush administration liability. "Somewhere inside
this there's a scandal that will tear the insides of the
country out," said Sen. Alan Dixon (D., Ill.).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Avondale Industries Wins Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MD GE AVDL
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Avondale Industries Inc. was issued a $104.4
million Navy contract for an oceanographic survey ship.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   McDonnell Douglas Corp. received awards of $18.2 million
for Army helicopter parts and Air Force jet engine flight
tests.
                                                                                                       

   General Electric Co. got a $17 million Navy pact for
submarine communications.
                                                                                                       

   Israel Aircraft Industries Ltd. was awarded a $10.1
million Navy contract for a helicopter night targeting
system.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Review of Mutual Funds:
   Lindner's Lange Searches Overseas for Bargains
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Lindner Fund's Robert Lange is a winner with
mutual fund investors, finishing fourth among the decade's
top performers with a gain of 660%, or 22.5% a year.
   The fund deserves a laurel because, unlike a handful of
better performers, it meets two important criteria: Lindner
Fund has had the same manager at the helm for the whole 10
years. And it is still accepting new investors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lindner Fund tries to buy companies with little debt that
are cheap relative to earnings (after adjusting for
nonrecurring items). But because the fund's valuation
techniques are so stringent, the fund started shopping abroad
in 1984, and today has 19% of its assets in foreign stocks,
such as the chemical companies Akzo N.V. and Solvay &amp; Cie.
   The 45-year-old Mr. Lange, who runs the $654 million
no-load fund with a co-manager, 38-year-old Eric Ryback, says
the fund is now sitting on 20% cash. "When you get into the
upper reaches of the bull market, this sort of discipline
makes you not buy," says Mr. Lange, whose fund in the past
has held as much as 65% cash.
   The fund's third largest holding is Norsk Hydro AS, the
Norwegian maker of oil and gas products, petrochemicals and
fertilizers. Norsk Hydro trades on the New York Stock
Exchange in the form of American depositary receipts.
   The fund has been dabbling in junk bonds since 1986, and
they now account for 10% of the fund's assets. Mr. Lange and
Mr. Ryback always avoid new issues and instead buy
well-seasoned bonds.
   The fund's largest bond position, bigger even than any of
its stockholdings, is in Gulf Resources &amp; Chemical Corp. The
fund has recently been adding to its position.
   Mr. Lange took over managing Lindner Fund in 1977 from
Kurt Lindner, who founded the fund in 1954. "Kurt Lindner
used to work on the fund over his kitchen table at night,"
says Mr. Lange. Today, the 67-year-old Mr. Lindner still
keeps tabs on the fund, though most of the work is left to
Mr. Lange and Mr. Ryback, who became a co-manager of the fund
in 1984. "If we get an idea, we generally run it by Mr.
Lindner," says Mr. Lange. "He's the president and the boss.
He has the final say over what we do."
   Lindner Fund also goes after asset plays. Its largest
current bet is on Minorco S.A., which is controlled by South
Africa's Oppenheimer family and which has stakes in several
non-South African natural resource companies. Mr. Ryback puts
Minorco's net asset value per share at $23. The company,
which trades in the U.S. as an American depositary receipt,
closed yesterday at $15.75.
   Fidelity Magellan Fund was the top performer for the past
10 years, but manager Peter Lynch is leaving May 31, when
Morris Smith succeeds him. At No. 2 Merrill Pacific, fund
manager Stephen Silverman has managed the fund only since
1983 and so cannot rightfully claim the whole 10-year record.
The third-best performing fund, CGM Capital Development, has
been run by G. Kenneth Heebner since 1977 but is closed to
new investors. Another fund run by Mr. Heebner, New England
Growth, is open to new investors but hasn't done as well as
Robert Lange's fund.
                                                                                                       

   First-Quarter Leader:
                                                                                                       

   Strategic Gold/Minerals                   +19.15%
                                                                                                       

   Grant Brenna's tiny fund, Dallas-based Strategic
Gold/Minerals with just $3.9 million in assets, has a weak
track record. The fund, which is sold with an 8.5% sales
charge, has never outperformed the Standard &amp; Poor's 500
stock index in any year since its 1982 launch. In 1989 it was
the worst performing mutual fund.
   But when a fund concentrates its assets in just a few
stocks, it can get a huge boost when the market goes its way,
and that's just what happened with Strategic Gold/Minerals.
   The fund owns well-known North American mining companies
such as American Barrick Resources Corp., FMC Gold Co. and
Newmont Gold Co. But it wasn't any of these companies that
propelled Mr. Brenna to the top of the quarterly performance
charts.
   He got his biggest boost from a highly speculative bet on
Akiko-Lori Gold Resources Ltd., a Vancouver Stock Exchange
listed company that has announced a gold discovery in
Ontario, Canada. The stock has tripled since the beginning of
the year.
   "A lot of games are played on the Vancouver Stock
Exchange," notes Mr. Brenna. "We're fairly sure that the
shareholder base of Akiko-Lori will keep the promoter in
line. The difficult part is knowing when the market thinks
the stock is appropriately priced."
   Strategic Gold/Minerals' performance would have been even
stronger but for the drubbing that gold took on March 26,
falling $23 an ounce to $366. "I think gold right now -- this
week -- it's cheaper than hell," says Mr. Brenna. "The market
is trying to absorb the two million ounces that this Saudia
Arabian consortium sold to buy sterling. When that shakes
out, I expect gold to rise back to $390." Yesterday gold for
current delivery was quoted at $377.10, up $1.80 an ounce.
                                                                                                       

   12-Month Leader:

   Fidelity Select Energy Service            +50%
                                                                                                       

   For Fidelity Investments' sector funds, which invest in a
single industry, things tend to be all boom or all bust.
After performing pitifully through 1986, 1987 and 1988,
Fidelity Select Energy Service boomed.
   "The oil-field equipment and service index is up 46% over
the last year, and the drilling-industry index is up 45%, so
we start off being in a pretty good industry," notes David
Neisser, the fund's 27-year-old manager.
   The 1980s were a rough decade for energy-service
companies, but Mr. Neisser reckons the survivors will be
long-term beneficiaries of the decline in U.S. and Soviet oil
production.
   Over the past year, Mr. Neisser has tried to exploit what
he sees as four major trends in the energy-service business;
the increase in foreign oil drilling and exploration in
places such as the North Sea and Southeast Asia; the increase
in offshore drilling; the application of modern technology to
the drilling process; and, finally, the increase in
exploration for, and use of, natural gas.
   Two companies that Mr. Neisser reckons will benefit from
the growing interest in natural gas are Baker Hughes Inc. and
Enterra Corp. "It's a much cleaner fuel, so you're going to
see it used in much greater quantities," says Mr. Neisser.
"And it's an indigenous fuel, so to the extent that we can
replace imported oil with this indigenous fuel, we can
improve the trade deficit."
                                                                                                       

   Five-Year Leader
                                                                                                       

   Fidelity Overseas                        +304%
                                                                                                       

   Fidelity's fund managers have always prided themselves on
their intensive research on individual companies. Lofty
predictions about the stock market's direction aren't their
style.
   But George Noble, 33-year-old manager of $1 billion
Fidelity Overseas, stands apart from the rest at Fidelity. He
too does his intensive research on each individual stock
pick. But he also feels compelled to try to predict the
direction of specific foreign markets.
   "Let's not kid ourselves, the macro issues are very
important," he says. "If you get stuck in the wrong market,
forget it."
   For a lot of international fund managers, the wrong market
for 1990 has been Japan. Mr. Noble went into the year with
30% of his fund in Japanese stocks.
   "Nobody ever rings a bell for you in this business," he
says. "At the turn of the year, the bond market started to
decline, the yen was weakening. At the same time, the
Japanese stock market in the fourth quarter took off like a
rocket. You had a divergence between the equity market and
the bond market. We said to ourselves, `time out.' By the end
of February, we were down to 12% {of assets}. We're now at
5%, the lowest level since the inception of the fund."
   While the fund took its licks in Japan, it made its
biggest gains in West Germany, with 20% of assets invested in
companies like Rhein-West Electric, Siemens AG and Volkswagen
AG.
   In continental Europe generally, Mr. Noble is trying to
exploit the boom in infrastructure spending that is likely to
accompany the 1992 economic integration of Europe and the
opening-up of Eastern Europe. The fund's biggest bet is on
France's Cie. Generale D'Electricite, which is involved in
railway construction, telecommunications equipment,
shipbuilding and power-generation equipment.
   ---
         How the Biggest Mutual Funds Have Performed
                                                                                                       

   Percentage gains for periods ended March 31; assets as of
December 31
                                                                                                       

         ASSETS        FIRST     TWELVE     FIVE     TEN
     (in billions)    QUARTER    MONTHS    YEARS    YEARS
                                                                                                       

   Fidelity Magellan Fund
        $12.7          -2.1%      20.3%    158.6%   1168.0%
                                                                                                       

   Franklin Cust:US Govt
         11.4           0.4       12.3      64.9     190.0
                                                                                                       

   Dean Witter US Govt
         10.1           0.4       10.3      49.5      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Windsor Fund
          8.1          -2.9        4.5     108.4     556.6
                                                                                                       

   Putnam High Income Govt
          7.7          -2.3       10.2      54.0      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Invest Port:Government
          5.8          -2.7        7.5      40.9      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Investment Co of America
          5.4          -2.0       18.6     126.4     449.4
                                                                                                       

   Fidelity Equity-Income
          5.0          -6.0        3.8      83.6     483.5
                                                                                                       

   Fidelity Puritan
          4.9          -3.1        9.5      94.0     436.6
                                                                                                       

   Templeton World
          4.7          -6.1        7.8     105.3     424.1
                                                                                                       

   Amer Cap Government
          4.7          -2.3       11.3      51.4      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Kemper US Govt Sec
          4.6          -1.3       11.4      69.9     197.5
                                                                                                       

   Washington Mutual Inv

                                                                                                       

   Pioneer II
          4.4          -1.0       12.9      97.2     425.2
                                                                                                       

   Pru-Bache Govt Plus
          3.9          -1.9        8.7      48.8      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   MFS Lifetime Govt Inc
          3.7          -2.8        7.1       N.A.     N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Affiliated Fund
          3.7          -1.7       17.2     108.5     388.5
                                                                                                       

   VanKamp Merr Government
          3.5          -0.4       13.2      69.1      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Mutual:Shares
          3.4          -3.6        3.9     109.4     493.0
                                                                                                       

   American Mutual
          3.3          -1.4       16.7     110.6     449.5
                                                                                                       

   Twentieth Cent:Select
          2.9          -3.5       24.6     122.9     577.9
                                                                                                       

   Dean Witter Div Gro
          2.8          -3.8       16.1     119.1      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Dreyfus Fund
          2.7          -3.1       14.8      91.5     325.9
                                                                                                       

   Merrill Federal Sec Tr
          2.6           0.3       12.8      66.6      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Colonial Govt Sec Plus
          2.6          -2.6        9.0      63.5      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   AARP Inc Tr:GNMA &amp; Treas
          2.5           0.2       10.7      59.9      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Amer Cap Pace
          2.5          -3.3       14.8      81.4     566.8
                                                                                                       

   Templeton Growth
          2.5          -2.4       12.9     122.4     381.1
                                                                                                       

   Pru-Bache High Yield
          2.4          -4.9       -7.3      40.3     191.2
                                                                                                       

   Pru-Bache Utility
          2.3          -5.6       23.0     138.3      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Windsor II
          2.3          -4.4       11.2      N.A.      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Fidelity Capital Aprec

                                                                                                       

   Vanguard Fix:GNMA Port
          2.1          -0.2       13.4      68.3      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Wellington Fund
          2.1          -3.4       10.7      99.2     376.5
                                                                                                       

   Amcap Fund
          2.0          -1.8       15.6     105.1     387.3
                                                                                                       

   SLH Inv:Govt Sec
          2.0          -1.7       11.6      53.2      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Putnam High Yield
          2.0          -4.7       -9.5      45.5     224.8
                                                                                                       

   Putnam Growth &amp; Income
          2.0            .0      114.6     123.1     410.4
                                                                                                       

   Age High Income
          1.9          -4.8       -9.9      34.3     189.6
                                                                                                       

   Delaware Gr:Decatur I
          1.9          -3.8        7.7     106.8     421.3
                                                                                                       

   GENERAL EQUITY FUNDS AVERAGE
                       -2.3%      13.3%     86.7%    343.7%
                                                                                                       

   S&amp;P 500  (with dividends)
                       -3.01%     19.2%    124.3%    409.9%
                                                                                                       

   N.A.-Not Available
   Source: Lipper Analytical Services Inc.
   ---
                   Fund Winners and Losers
                                                                                                       

   (performance for periods ended March 31; assets as of
December 31)
                                                                                                       

                        FIRST QUARTER
                                                                                                       

                                ASSETS        PERFORMANCE
  FUND NAME                 (in millions)  1ST QTR.  5 YEAR
                                                                                                       

  Top 25
                                                                                                       

  Strategic Gold/Minerals        $2.2     19.15%    -41.80%
                                                                                                       

  Equity Strategies              53.3     17.96      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Sel Eletronic          5.0     17.03      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Sel Computer           9.4     15.82      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Financial Port:Tech            10.1     10.56      94.13
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

  Strategic Silver               23.7      9.15      -9.70
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Sel Tech              71.0      8.29       5.56
                                                                                                       

  Cowen Funds:Opportunity         7.9      8.08      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Sel Automaton          1.1      7.59      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Sel Cap Goods          1.6      7.57      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Wasatch Growth                  4.3      7.35      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Sel Engy Ser          70.9      7.34      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Wasatch Aggressive Eq           1.8      7.23      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Alliance Technology           141.7      7.04      84.42
                                                                                                       

  Merrill Devlop Cap Mkt         65.1      6.12      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Brandywine Fund               165.8      5.98      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Seligman Comm &amp; Info           42.2      5.55     145.51
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Sel Bio Tech          69.7      5.52      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Bruce Fund                      3.1      5.38     100.35
                                                                                                       

  Monetta Fund                    3.9      5.36      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Pound Perform          0.4      5.33      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Gintel Fund                    94.6      5.00      90.93
                                                                                                       

  Regis:ICM Small Co             18.2      4.91      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  T. Rowe Price Sci &amp; Tech       23.8      4.59      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Bottom 25
                                                                                                       

  Nikko Japan Tilt Fd           $19.8    -29.90%     N.A.%
                                                                                                       

  SLH Inv:Pacific                 4.3    -21.43      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Strategic Investments          59.4    -21.10     -32.06
                                                                                                       

  DFA Gp:Japan Small Co         176.0    -19.91      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Keystone Intl                 118.5    -17.52     113.81
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Sel Broadcast         13.5    -16.29      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Japan Fund                    400.9    -16.10     237.49
                                                                                                       

  Nomura Pacific Basin           70.6    -15.62      N.A.

  Merrill Pacific B              59.1    -15.36      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Merrill Pacific A             318.6    -15.20     224.69
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Pacific Basin        112.4    -15.06      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Seagate:Intl Gro &amp; Inc         11.8    -14.65      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Yamaichi Fd:Global Fund        55.0    -14.27      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  GT Global Japan                47.3    -13.67      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Benham Target:2020             N.A.    -13.42      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Benham Target:2015            318.1    -13.05      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Security Inc:High Yield         8.8    -12.71      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Bailard Biehl &amp; Kaiser Int     78.9    -12.57     181.47
                                                                                                       

  Financial Port:Pacific         26.2    -12.33     180.43
                                                                                                       

  Rockwood Growth                 1.6    -12.25      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  US Gold Shares                379.0    -12.24       8.61
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Sel Leisure           59.6    -12.23     124.34
                                                                                                       

  RSSI:Intl Eq                   31.1    -12.09     171.97
                                                                                                       

  Oppenheimer Gld &amp; Sp Min      164.0    -11.41     164.18
                                                                                                       

  Warburg International Fd       10.9    -11.17      N.A.
   ---
                          12 MONTHS
                                                                                                       

                               ASSETS        PERFORMANCE
   FUND NAME               (in millions)  12 MONTH   5 YEAR
                                                                                                       

  Top 25
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Sel Enrgy Ser       $70.9       50.00%     N.A.%
                                                                                                       

  Vista Fds:Gro &amp; Inc            9.1       48.70      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  DFA Grp:Contl Small Co       214.0       42.91      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Alger:Small Capital           13.6       41.46      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  GT Global America              9.7       39.17      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  T. Rowe Price Sci &amp; Tech      23.8       38.72      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Financial Port:Health         36.2       36.22     186.69
                                                                                                       

  RCS Emerging Growth           12.8       34.40      N.A.

  GT Global Europe             375.1       34.34      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  T. Rowe Price Intl Discov     61.2       34.25      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Sel Eletronic         5.0       33.58      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  AMEV Advntge:Capital App      14.5       33.25      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Sel Bio Tech         69.7       33.24      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Twentieth Cent:Vista Inv     291.3       33.11     134.84
                                                                                                       

  Bull &amp; Bear Spl Equities       6.3       32.87      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Twentieth Cent:Giftrust       24.7       32.40     204.41
                                                                                                       

  Janus Twenty Fund             67.8       31.77      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Wasatch Aggressive Eq          1.8       31.28      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Hartwell Emerg Growth         24.2       30.58     144.11
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Growth Co Fd        298.7       30.31     125.44
                                                                                                       

  Berger One Hundred            14.6       30.16     127.48
                                                                                                       

  AIM Equity:Constellation      83.6       30.07     151.68
                                                                                                       

  Equity Port:Growth            24.0       29.86     132.89
                                                                                                       

  Composite Northwest 50        22.0       29.74      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Dr Funds:European Equity      31.0       29.71      N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Bottom 25
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

  Alliance Bond:High Yield    $175.8      -23.47%     N.A.%
                                                                                                       

  Dean Witter High Yield      1121.8      -20.66      18.18
                                                                                                       

  Pilgrim Preferred             48.5      -20.65      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Security Inc:High Yield        8.8      -20.33      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Prudent Speculatr:Levrgd       7.4      -18.45      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Amer Cap High Yield          427.2      -17.59      21.74
                                                                                                       

  National Bond                437.6      -17.29       8.36
                                                                                                       

  Prudent Speculatr:Lg Cap       0.9      -16.70      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  American Inv Income           12.0      -16.48      17.59
                                                                                                       

  DFA Grp:UK Small Company     125.0      -15.73      N.A.

  United High Income          1015.2      -15.57      29.29
                                                                                                       

  First Inv High Yield         747.0      -14.62      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  AMEV Advntge:High Yield       21.5      -14.48      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Pac Horizon:High Yld          16.7      -14.09      30.61
                                                                                                       

  Christos Fund                  5.0      -13.95      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  First Inv Fd For Income     1308.8      -13.95      24.81
                                                                                                       

  Sunamerica Income Plus        28.2      -13.20      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Prime:Income Fund              0.7      -13.07      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  SLH Inv:Pacific                4.3      -12.70      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Schield Port:High Yield        1.0      -12.63      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Keystone International       118.5      -12.36     113.81
                                                                                                       

  VanKamp Merr High Yield      257.4      -12.24      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  Putnam High Yield II         330.4      -12.03      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  National Real Estate:Inc      12.9      -11.94      N.A.
                                                                                                       

  MFS Lifetime Hi Inc          121.0      -11.92      N.A.
   ---
                           5 YEARS
                                                                                                       

                               ASSETS        PERFORMANCE
  FUND NAME                (in millions)  5 YEAR    1ST QTR.
                                                                                                       

   Top 25
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Overseas          $1010.4      304.00%   - 1.14%
                                                                                                       

  Trustees Commingled Intl     645.6      258.05    - 4.95
                                                                                                       

  Gam:International             20.8      252.64    - 2.85
                                                                                                       

  T. Rowe Price Intl Stock     970.5      242.31    - 2.93
                                                                                                       

  GT Global Pacific            169.9      241.35    - 5.16
                                                                                                       

  Alliance International       221.3      239.97    - 6.10
                                                                                                       

  Oppenheimer Global Fund      566.8      237.65      4.56
                                                                                                       

  Japan Fund                   400.9      237.49    -16.10
                                                                                                       

  Kleinwort Benson:Intl Eq      81.4      236.39    - 6.55
                                                                                                       

  Vanguard World:Intl Gro      685.2      230.67    - 8.29

  Merrill Pacific A            318.6      224.69    -15.20
                                                                                                       

  Intl Fd For Institutions      14.3      220.62    - 6.14
                                                                                                       

  Templeton Foreign            564.1      217.58      1.89
                                                                                                       

  Kemper International Fd      194.4      216.74    - 1.28
                                                                                                       

  FT International              67.8      209.26    - 5.00
                                                                                                       

  Scudder International        763.3      206.67    - 3.12
                                                                                                       

  Twentieth Cent:Giftrust       24.7      204.41    - 2.63
                                                                                                       

  PaineWbr Classic:Atlas       206.7      195.14    - 6.45
                                                                                                       

  Benham Target:2010            45.3      193.02    -10.88
                                                                                                       

  Europacific Growth           402.9      189.03    - 1.54
                                                                                                       

  Financial Port:Health         36.2      186.69    - 1.11
                                                                                                       

  Putnam Intl Equities         534.3      185.85    - 4.57
                                                                                                       

  Bailard Biehl &amp; Kaiser Int    78.9      181.47    -12.57
                                                                                                       

  IDS International            216.9      180.53    - 1.71
                                                                                                       

  Financial Port:Pacific        26.2      180.43    -12.33
                                                                                                       

   Bottom 25
                                                                                                       

  44 Wall Street Fund          $ 5.8      -51.26%   - 8.63%
                                                                                                       

  American Heritage Fund         1.1      -50.56    - 1.92
                                                                                                       

  Dividend/Growth:Grow Srs       0.5      -50.19    -10.82
                                                                                                       

  Strategic Gold/Minerals        2.2      -41.80     19.15
                                                                                                       

  Steadman Oceanographic         2.7      -36.24    - 5.57
                                                                                                       

  Strategic Investments         59.4      -32.06    -21.10
                                                                                                       

  Steadman Amer Industry         4.2      -28.93    - 9.55
                                                                                                       

  US Locap Fund                  1.4      -26.94      0.50
                                                                                                       

  Steadman Investment            4.6      -12.83    - 9.77
                                                                                                       

  Strategic Silver              23.7      - 9.70      9.15
                                                                                                       

  Quantum Fund                   0.2      - 8.03    -  .82
                                                                                                       

  Pilgrim Corp Investors        76.4      - 1.76    - 1.52
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

  Nautilus Fund                 12.9      - 1.47      4.15
                                                                                                       

  Flagship Basic Value          26.7        0.35    - 2.45
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Sel Defense           1.5        1.93      0.49
                                                                                                       

  Afuture Fund                   8.3        4.97    - 4.14
                                                                                                       

  Amer Cap OTC                  44.9        5.28    -  .65
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Sel Tech             71.0        5.56      8.29
                                                                                                       

  Federated Corp Cash           14.7        6.93    - 3.02
                                                                                                       

  National Bond                437.6        8.36    - 4.95
                                                                                                       

  Geico Qualified Dividend      12.3        8.49    - 2.43
                                                                                                       

  US Gold Shares               379.0        8.61    -12.24
                                                                                                       

  USAA Inv Tr:Gold             177.9       11.71    - 8.80
                                                                                                       

  Bull &amp; Bear High Yield        61.3       12.44    - 3.21
   ---
                          10 YEARS
                                                                                                       

                               ASSETS        PERFORMANCE
  FUND NAME                 (in millions) 10 YEAR   1ST QTR.
                                                                                                       

   Top 25
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Magellan Fund    $12699.6     1167.99%   - 2.09%
                                                                                                       

  Merrill Pacific A            318.6      880.46    -15.20
                                                                                                       

  CGM Capital Development      189.9      669.97    -  .54
                                                                                                       

  Lindner Fund                 621.3      660.25    -  .94
                                                                                                       

  Japan Fund                   400.9      643.75    -16.10
                                                                                                       

  Janus Fund                   705.0      625.29    - 3.73
                                                                                                       

  SteinRoe Inv:Special         320.5      606.32      0.60
                                                                                                       

  Phoenix:Growth Fd            715.8      598.55    - 1.72
                                                                                                       

  New Eng:Growth Fund          555.9      595.72    - 2.71
                                                                                                       

  Phoenix:Stock Fund           131.7      587.41    - 1.73
                                                                                                       

  Fidelity Destiny I          1753.3      584.99    - 1.92
                                                                                                       

  GT Global Pacific            169.9      578.58    - 5.16
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

  Twentieth Cent:Select       2858.7      577.90    - 3.51
                                                                                                       

  IDS New Dimensions           769.7      574.23    -  .71
                                                                                                       

  Sequoia Fund                 924.4      571.24    - 1.26
                                                                                                       

  Lindner Dividend             140.8      569.04    -  .04
                                                                                                       

  Amer Cap Pace               2483.8      566.79    - 3.25
                                                                                                       

  Windsor Fund                8062.6      556.63    - 2.91
                                                                                                       

  AMEV Growth Fd               232.0      554.00    - 3.17
                                                                                                       

  New York Venture             308.2      552.93    - 2.39
                                                                                                       

  Sogen International          162.9      541.83    -  .67
                                                                                                       

  United:Income               1548.9      538.30      0.16
                                                                                                       

  Oppenheimer Global Fund      566.8      533.02      4.56
                                                                                                       

  Nicholas Fund               1386.0      532.34    - 2.31
                                                                                                       

    Bottom 25
                                                                                                       

  44 Wall Street Fund          $ 5.8      -67.63%   - 8.63%
                                                                                                       

  American Heritage Fund         1.1      -42.28    - 1.92
                                                                                                       

  Steadman Oceanographic         2.7      -28.31    - 5.57
                                                                                                       

  Steadman Amer Industry         4.2      -18.94    - 9.55
                                                                                                       

  Steadman Investment            4.6       14.04    - 9.77
                                                                                                       

  Strategic Investments         59.4       18.08    -21.10
                                                                                                       

  Sherman Dean Fund              3.9       44.81    -11.01
                                                                                                       

  Bull &amp; Bear Gold Investors    46.6       71.79    - 7.01
                                                                                                       

  Steadman Associated Fd        13.7       81.51    - 3.95
                                                                                                       

  Afuture Fund                   8.3       91.56    - 4.14
                                                                                                       

  American Inv Growth           68.4       92.66    -  .54
                                                                                                       

  Corp Fd Inv Accum Prog        82.7       99.75    -  .67
                                                                                                       

  American Inv Income           12.0      104.53    - 5.22
                                                                                                       

  US Gold Shares               379.0      105.74    -12.24
                                                                                                       

  National Bond                437.6      108.12    - 4.95

  Keystone Prec Metals         217.5      113.31    -10.24
                                                                                                       

  Lexington Goldfund           155.4      119.39    - 8.61
                                                                                                       

  First Inv Fd For Income     1308.8      126.60    - 5.41
                                                                                                       

  ISI Growth Fund                9.9      127.67    -  .57
                                                                                                       

  Rainbow Fund                   2.1      131.23    - 4.93
                                                                                                       

  Concord Fund                   1.3      132.56      1.07
                                                                                                       

  Lepercq-Istel Fund            22.1      136.25    - 5.36
                                                                                                       

  Merrill Special Value A       66.4      138.78    - 2.49
                                                                                                       

  Retirement Plan Am:Bd         64.8      141.66    - 2.89
                                                                                                       

  Dean Witter High Yield      1121.8      145.12    - 7.45
                                                                                                       

    N.A.-Not available
    Source: Lipper Analytical Services Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Eager Investors
   Flock to Hungary,
   Find Slim Pickings
   ----
   By Philip Revzin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BUDAPEST, Hungary -- Budapest's five luxury hotels are
jammed with American, German, British, South Korean,
Austrian, Japanese and French business executives. All are
looking for joint-venture deals or Hungarian companies in
which to invest the $80 million to $100 million entrusted to
them by institutional investors eager to cash in on Eastern
Europe.
   But the pickings are getting slim -- fast. "There are
maybe 50 -- maximum -- state companies capable of absorbing
an investment of $100 million or $150 million," says Daniel
S. Fogel, dean of the International Management Center here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Two thick books list 67 state companies eager to marry
rich benefactors; most are Stalinian white elephants that
make low-quality, high-cost steel or machine tools. The 4th
of April Machine Factory in Kiskunfelegyhaza makes boilers
and air conditioners and offers a Western partner a
52,000-square-foot workshop and 1,106 employees. The Duna
Shoe Factory needs a few hundred thousand dollars to buy new
stitching and gluing machines; it posted a loss of 80 million
forints ($1.3 million) last year. On the government's list of
its 50 most promising companies is a maker of vacuum tubes,
an item that most of the world long ago replaced with
transistors.
   Investing here requires an on-the-ground presence. Stephen
Frater, chief executive of Cohfin, Italian industrialist
Carlo De Benedetti's new Hungarian investment company, opened
shop Dec. 1 in the Hotel Gellert. He has $50 million he would
like to deploy this year. So far he has signed four letters
of intent with potential partners: a porcelain maker, a
printer, a retail store and a financial-services company.
   "Once you find a company you then have to roll up your
sleeves and slog through a nonsensical set of numbers, then
sit down with your own auditors and reconstruct the balance
sheet," says Mr. Frater. Hungary "is not a place to fly in,
have a round of meetings, fly out and come back when the
papers are ready."
   The problems aren't just bureaucratic. Mr. Frater's phone
rings.
   "Yes, yes. We're ready to close the deal. We're prepared
to put a payment in escrow."
   Pause.
   "Escrow. E-S-C-R-O-W. It means we put the money in a bank
account and he gets it when the deal is done."
   Pause.
   "Oh, come over tomorrow and I'll explain it to you."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raychem Plans
   To Take a Charge
   For Its 3rd Period
   ----
   By Carrie Dolan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8C
</SO>
<CO>
   RYC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MENLO PARK, Calif. -- Raychem Corp. said it would take a
charge of up to $90 million in its third quarter, which will
cause a loss for the fiscal year. The charge will cover
severance payments, management consolidations and certain
expenses associated with divestitures.
   Raychem said excluding the one-time charge and taxes,
results in the quarter ended March 31 were at about the
break-even level, reflecting a larger-than-expected drop in
its defense business. Sales were about 5% above the
year-earlier quarter's level of $270 million "in constant
currency," Raychem said. A spokesman said that since about
60% of sales come from international markets, currency
fluctuations could change final sales results.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Raychem makes aerospace, automotive, electronics and
telecommunications products. Its stock closed yesterday at
$27.75, down 25 cents, in composite trading on the New York
Stock Exchange.
   In the year-earlier third quarter, Raychem took a one-time
charge of $10.7 million for certain programs intended to
"improve corporate efficiency." In that quarter, Raychem
posted net income of $2.4 million, or seven cents a share
fully diluted, down 92% from a year earlier.
   Raychem has seen several quarters of declining profits,
which the company has blamed, in part, on losses from its
Raynet unit. That unit, which designs fiber-optics systems,
is still developing products and markets. A spokesman said
Raynet is expected to cost the company about $60 million this
fiscal year, ending June 30. However, Raychem said it
"remains fully committed" to the Raynet unit, where
technology trials now under way are showing "encouraging
results."
   The company will cut its work force by 8%, dismissing 900
workers to reduce staff to about 10,500. Raychem also said it
will consolidate certain management and administrative jobs,
and sell undeveloped land in Menlo Park, Calif. Raychem said
it plans to acquire manufacturing sites in other,
less-expensive parts of the U.S.
   In addition, Raychem plans to sell its Advanced Packaging
Systems division, which makes products to enhance
communications among integrated circuits, and much of its
shape memory alloy business, which makes metals for the
aerospace industry.
   Raychem said the moves are intended to reduce ongoing
expenses but a spokesman wouldn't estimate how much money
will be saved. Raychem said once the moves are implemented,
it expects the costs to be recovered over two to three years.
   For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1989, the company
posted net income of $36.3 million, or $1.02 a fully diluted
share, on sales of $1.08 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Taiwan Price Index Up
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   TAIPEI, Taiwan -- Taiwan's consumer price index rose 0.74%
in March from February and was up 3.3% from a year earlier,
according to the Directorate General of Budget, Accounting
and Statistics.
   The directorate attributed March's increase in part to
higher prices for food and rental fees. Food prices gained
1.94% and rental fees climbed 0.35%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The impact of the boosts, however, was lessened somewhat
by a 1.2% drop in clothing prices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arkla Exploration Tests Well
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ARK
</CO>
<LP>
   SHREVEPORT, La. -- Arkla Exploration Co. said it tested an
oil and gas well in southwestern Mississippi.
   The independent oil and natural gas producer said its
Neyland Heirs No. 1 well flowed at a daily rate of 360
barrels of oil and 458,000 cubic feet of natural gas from
depths of between 12,041 and 12,051 feet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAL's United Airlines Traffic
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- UAL Corp. said March traffic at its United
Airlines unit climbed 4.5% to 6.31 billion revenue passenger
miles from 6.04 billion miles a year earlier.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The carrier's load factor, or the percentage of seats
filled, dropped in March to 67.7% from the year-earlier
68.8%.
   International traffic increased 27% in the latest month,
while traffic at its much-larger domestic segment slipped
1.4%.
   For the year to date, United's traffic was 17.07 billion
revenue passenger miles, up 6.4% from 16.04 billion miles a
year earlier. Load factor for the year to date was 64.9%, up
from 63.5%.
   United's international traffic increased 32% in the latest
year-to-date, while its domestic traffic was essentially
flat.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EVGN MDA
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   CMS-Data Corp., initial offering of one million common
shares, via Whale Securities Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Evergreen Bancorp, Inc., proposed offering of $10 million
of convertible subordinated debentures, via Ryan, Beck &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Mapco Inc., shelf offering of up to $400 million of debt
securities, via Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   For Yanomani Women,
   Life Is Doubly Brutal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   Your March 21 page-one article "Amazon Tragedy: White
Man's Malaria and Pollution Imperil Remote Tribe in Brazil"
on the Yanomami tribe in Brazil stirred up lively discussion
in my classroom. According to the noted anthropologist Marvin
Harris, the Yanomami have been nicknamed "The Fierce People"
because they practice wife-beating and female infanticide.
Quoting from his book "Cannibals and Kings": "They practice
an especially brutal form of male supremacy involving
polygyny, frequent wife beating, and gang rape of captured
enemy women." Furthermore, it is acceptable behavior for a
Yanomami male to trade his wife for food and protection. When
the population experiences a shortage of women for
childbearing, it is equally acceptable to raid other tribes
for them.
   Our question is: Does such a society deserve protection
from the 20th century? Or to put it another way: Are the gold
seekers really the "bad guys" in this story as the article
suggests?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Perhaps it is the anthropologists who have the most to
gain by preserving such a brutal, primitive culture. They
depend upon such groups for their research grants. I don't
think the Yanomami women enjoy being beaten, raped and traded
like objects. In fact, the article stated that the Yanomami,
in general, crave the technology the white man is bringing.
What's wrong with letting them have it?
   Marilyn Faulkenburg
   Professor of Managerial Communications
   Menlo College
   Atherton, Calif.
   ---
   Your article is a sensationalistic, unjust and strongly
racist presentation of a sad situation. Way before the first
Europeans, Asians, Arabs and Hebrews used and abused
alcoholic drinks.
   Millions of years before Hubert Humphrey or the French
Revolution thought to invent equal opportunity, the malaria
virus already practiced it, and it still does.
   The "garimpeiros" (many are not white but blacks and
mulattoes) do nothing that the Anglo- and French-Americans
did not do in North America and Canada.
   Mario I. Liszka
   Jacksonville, Fla.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bombardier Unit Gets Job
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BBD.A N.HOL
</CO>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Bombardier Inc. said its Belgian subsidiary,
BN Constructions Ferroviaires et Metaliques S.A., and Holec
N.V. of the Netherlands were awarded a contract of 44 million
Canadian dollars (US$38 million) by HTM, which operates a
public transit system in The Hague, Netherlands.
   The contract is for 34 double-articulated light rail
vehicles, which will be manufactured by BN in Belgium and use
Holec's direct-current traction equipment. Deliveries are to
begin in 1992. Bombardier is a Montreal-based transportation,
defense and aerospace concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Best Sellers
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   FICTION
                                                                                                       

                                              LAST   WEEKS
                                              WEEK   ON LIST
  1 The Bourne Ultimatum
    by Robert Ludlum (Random House, $21.95)    1        4
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

    by Dr. Seuss (Random House, $12.95)        3        7
                                                                                                       

  3 Clear and Present Danger
    by Tom Clancy (Putnam, $21.95)             4       31
                                                                                                       

  4 Devices and Desires
    by P.D. James (Knopf, $19.95)              2       11
                                                                                                       

  5 The Scions of Shannara: Book One
    Of the Heritage of Shannara
    by Terry Brooks (Del Rey, $19.95)          5        5
                                                                                                       

  6 Bittersweet
    by LaVyrle Spencer (Putnam, $18.95)        7        6
                                                                                                       

  7 The Bad Place
    by Dean R. Koontz (Putnam, $19.95)         6       11
                                                                                                       

  8 Masquerade
    by Janet Dailey (Little, Brown, $19.95)             1
                                                                                                       

  9 Counterattack
    by W.E.B. Griffin (Putnam, $16.95)         8        9
                                                                                                       

 10 Tales From Margaritaville
    by Jimmy Buffett (Harcourt Brace
    Jovanovich, $16.95)                        9       24
                                                                                                       

   NONFICTION
                                                                                                       

                                              LAST   WEEKS
                                              WEEK   ON LIST
                                                                                                       

  1 Means of Ascent
    by Robert A. Caro (Knopf, $24.95)           4       3

  2 Megatrends 2000
    by John Naisbitt and Patricia Aburdene
    (Morrow,  $21.95)                           1      11
                                                                                                       

  3 Barbarians at the Gate
    by Bryan Burrough and John Helyar
    (Harper &amp; Row, $22.95) 437                  2      11
                                                                                                       

  4 Secrets About Men Every Woman Should Know
    by Barbara DeAngelis, Ph.D.
    (Delacorte, $17.95)                         3       7
                                                                                                       

  5 Liar's Poker: Rising Through
    the Wreckage on Wall Street
    by Michael M. Lewis (Norton, $19.95)        5      21
                                                                                                       

  6 Wealth Without Risk
    by Charles Givens
    (Simon &amp; Schuster, $19.95)                  6      61
                                                                                                       

  7 Beware the Naked Man Who
    Offers You His Shirt
    by Harvey MacKay (Morrow, $19.95)           7       7
                                                                                                       

  8 What I Saw at the Revolution:
    A Political Life in the Reagan Era
    by Peggy Noonan (Random House, $19.95)      8       7
                                                                                                       

  9 It Was on Fire When I Lay Down on It
    by Robert Fulghum (Villard, $17.95)        10      30
                                                                                                       

 10 Parting With Illusions
    by Vladimir Pozner with Brian J. Kahn
    (Atlantic Monthly Press, $19.95)            9       4
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   IBM Researchers
   `Write' With Atoms
   On a Metal Surface
   ----
   By Richard L. Hudson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Researchers at International Business Machines
Corp. achieved a milestone in ultramicroscopic manufacturing,
by "writing" with individual atoms on a metal surface.
   The researchers used a special IBM-invented microscope to
position individual atoms of xenon gas precisely on a nickel
plate. They arranged the xenon atoms into patterns -- for
instance, tracing out the letters "IBM" in lines one atom
wide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The technological feat, described in today's issue of
Nature, a weekly British science journal, is the latest of
several recent steps towards the ultimate in
micromanufacturing: precise manipulation of individual atoms
and molecules. Scientists talk of one day being able to make
ultrasmall electronic circuitry, with dimensions of just one
atom or molecule. By comparison, the circuitry in today's
top-performance computer chips is at least 1,000 times more
coarse. In theory, smaller circuitry permits faster, less
expensive and more complex computing.
   But at the moment, such research is more laboratory
curiosity than commercial reality. In their Nature report,
the IBM researchers said use of their technique may be
limited to certain types of atoms and molecules. Also, the
equipment they used is too costly and complex to contemplate
commercial applications anytime soon.
   The technique, developed at IBM's Almaden Research Center
in San Jose, Calif., uses the so-called scanning tunnelling
microscope. The device, for whose invention two IBM
scientists shared a Nobel Prize in 1987, is normally used in
physics and materials laboratories to produce images of
individual atoms and molecules. The microscope has a
single-atom tip that, when energized by a tiny electric
current, can trace the atomic surface contours of many
materials.
   By simply increasing the electric current passing through
the tip, the Almaden researchers converted the device from a
"reader" of atomic structures to a "writer." Specifically,
the researchers scattered xenon atoms at random over a nickel
surface, and then used the microscope's tip to drag each
xenon atom into its desired position on the nickel surface.
The result was uniform lines of closely spaced xenon atoms on
top of the nickel surface.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Axel Springer Verlag
   To Expand, Redesign
   Its Medical Tribune
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.SPR
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Axel Springer Verlag AG, hoping to build on
its foothold in U.S. publishing, will introduce today a
redesigned and expanded Medical Tribune, the national
newspaper for physicians.
   The West German publisher bought the Medical Tribune in
August from the family of its founder, the late Arthur
Sackler, for an estimated $80 million. Medical Tribune was
the first acquisition in the U.S. by Axel Springer, one of
the largest newspaper publishers in Europe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Axel Springer, as of this week's issue, converted the
publication from a tabloid into a broadsheet and expanded its
editorial matter to include life style features as well as
clinical news. Published now every two weeks with editions in
Japan, France, and West Germany, Medical Tribune will become
a weekly in early 1991, said Richard Dauncey, president of
Medical Tribune.
   "We want to bridge the gap between the physicians'
professional and private lives," said Mr. Dauncey. Axel
Springer has spent about $8 million revamping the newspaper,
which has U.S. circulation of about 125,000. "We go from
clinical news to matters of cultural significance."
   In a related development, Axel Springer is expected to
launch more U.S. publications in the medical field. A
consumer magazine called Family Health, now being tested in
the U.K. by Axel Springer, may also be launched in the U.S.
within a year, Mr. Dauncey said.
   Axel Springer is tapping a lucrative advertising market. A
large number of publications vie for about $420 million in
pharmaceutical and medical-related advertising. The
readership is potentially large also, with an estimated
500,000 physicians in the U.S. alone.
   But even Axel Springer executives acknowledge they are
expanding Medical Tribune during a depressed period.
Advertising revenue for pharmaceuticals fell about 30% in the
first quarter, said Mr. Dauncey.
   "The U.S. publication is an important part of our becoming
a world-wide provider of medical news," said Helmut Fluhrer,
Axel Springer project manager for mergers and acquisitions.
News from "the medical industry in the U.S. is vitally
important to other countries," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Blood Test to Detect Cancer
   Is Found to Be Inaccurate
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   A simple blood test for cancer failed to live up to its
early promise, cancer researchers said.
   When it was first described in 1986, the blood test raised
hopes that a method had been found for screening seemingly
healthy people for signs of hidden cancers. It also was hoped
that the test might be used to monitor patients who had been
treated for cancer to see if the malignancy had returned.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The test involved taking a small blood sample and
subjecting it to a procedure called nuclear magnetic
resonance spectroscopy. In this procedure an intense magnetic
field causes the protons in the hydrogen atoms of water to
give off a detectable signal. Initial tests indicated the
technique could distinguish between blood samples from cancer
patients and blood samples from healthy persons.
   This week's issue of the New England Journal of Medicine,
however, carries two reports declaring the test produced
erroneous results in too many cases to be useful. One report,
from a team of scientists at Massachusetts General Hospital
and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, found that in 52%
of cases the test wrongly indicated healthy persons had
cancer and that it failed to identify 56% of patients with
cancer. The second report from Norwegian researchers
described similar results.
   The blood test isn't to be confused with magnetic
resonance imaging, which gives an image of internal anatomy
more detailed than X-rays. It is used to detect malignant
tumors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ashland Oil to Sell
   Its Boiler Business
   To Deutsche Babcock
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ASH G.DBC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ASHLAND, Ky. -- Ashland Oil Inc. agreed to sell its
industrial boiler business to Deutsche Babcock
Aktiengesellschaft of West Germany. The company declined to
disclose the proposed sale price.
   Initially, Deutsche Babcock will buy a 20% interest in the
Ashland unit, Riley Consolidated, which is based in
Worcester, Mass. Deutsche Babcock is obligated to buy the
remaining 80% by Sept. 25, 1991, if certain operating results
are achieved. If the goals aren't met, Ashland could be
required to repurchase the 20% interest for a nominal price,
Ashland said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Riley designs and produces steam generating boilers,
mainly for electric utilities. Annual sales are about $100
million, said H. Kerner Smith, Riley president and chief
executive officer. He said the unit has been incurring
losses, but "is turning the corner, and ongoing operations
are profitable." Sales have been as high as $250 million
during years of high spending by electric utilities, he said.
   The purchase will give Deutsche Babcock an entry into the
U.S. boiler market, Mr. Smith said. Deutsche Babcock is a
major participant in the world market, he said, with more
than $1.5 billion of annual sales of boilers and related
products.
   Ashland said the agreement will have no effect on fiscal
1990 earnings. Transaction results will be deferred until
September 1991, Ashland said. Ashland is an oil refiner and
marketer that has diversified into chemicals, engineering and
other activities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Burroughs Wellcome Drug
   Treats Chickenpox in Test
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.WCM
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   The symptoms of chickenpox were eased in children
receiving the Burroughs Wellcome Co. antiviral drug,
acyclovir, researchers at the University of Minnesota
reported.
   Fifty children who were given a syrup containing acyclovir
four times a day, beginning the first day after they
developed symptoms of chickenpox, had fewer skin eruptions
than 52 children who didn't get the drug.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The eruptions began healing within a day after treatment,
or a day sooner than in the untreated children, and appeared
to heal faster, Henry H. Balfour Jr. and his colleagues at
the university's Health Sciences Center in Minneapolis
reported in this week's issue of the Journal of Pediatrics.
   A check a year later found that the treated children had
developed the same natural immunity to chickenpox as the
untreated children.
   Chickenpox is caused by the varicella-zoster virus; one of
the many herpes viruses. Acyclovir previously was found
effective against several other viruses of the herpes family.
   Chickenpox strikes an estimated 3.5 million people a year,
mostly children. In children, it usually produces a mild rash
and fever that lasts about five days. About 4,000 children a
year are hospitalized for complications of chickenpox. In the
rare adult who hasn't had chickenpox, infection can be
severe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Retail Sales Up
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian retail sales rose 2% in January, led by
an upswing in motor vehicle sales, Statistics Canada, a
federal agency, said.
   The January gain from December followed three months of
sluggish retail business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales by motor vehicle dealers rose 6.8% in January
following a 0.5% increase in December. Sales by auto parts
and service stores increased 5.7%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Electric,
   U.S. to Share Cost
   Of Combination Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AEP
</CO>
<IN>
UTILITIES (UTI)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   COLUMBUS, Ohio -- American Electric Power Co. said it
agreed with the U.S. Department of Energy to share the $660
million cost of building a commercial-scale pressurized
fluidized bed combustion unit.
   The Energy Department will provide $185 million of the
cost for the unit, which burns coal more efficiently and with
less polluting emissions than standard boilers. American
Electric will provide the remaining funds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The technology hasn't previously been employed in
full-scale utility plants in North America, American Electric
said. Fluidized bed plants burn pulverized coal in the
presence of limestone, which removes most of the sulphur
dioxide, and lower operating temperatures reduce emissions of
nitrogen oxides. Those compounds are responsible for acid
rain and other pollution problems.
   Preliminary engineering design for the facility is under
way, American Electric said. The study includes a detailed
evaluation of repowering a unit at the utility's Philip Sporn
generating plant in New Haven, W.Va., with a 330,000-kilowatt
fluidized bed combustion unit, or building a completely new
facility, the company said.
   A fluidized bed unit at the Sporn plant would start
commercial operation in 1996, American Electric said, but
additional environmental studies would delay start-up of a
completely new facility until 1998.
   American Electric this year will begin operating a
70,000-kilowatt unit employing the new technology at a
mothballed generating plant in Brilliant, Ohio. That unit is
a joint project with the Energy Department and the Ohio Coal
Development Office, a state agency.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Philips, Olivetti Confirm
   Discussions on Cooperation
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   PHG I.OLV
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Spokesmen for NV Philips and Ing. C. Olivetti &amp; Co.
confirmed rumors that the two electronics companies are
discussing possibile cooperation, but they gave few details.
   A spokesman for Philips in Eindhoven, Netherlands, called
the discussions preliminary and noted that his company has
contacts with many other potential partners as well. He
refused to say which operations were under discussion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokeswoman for Olivetti, based in Ivrea, Italy, said
the talks involved "printers and electronic components." She
said the discussions were part of "a stage of diffused
negotiations with a number of European companies for other
possibilities of collaboration." Olivetti added that no
exchanges of shares between the companies were foreseen.
   Some analysts said Philips and Olivetti might be
discussing cooperation in small computer systems. Philips has
long said it was looking at possible partners for its
computer operations, and Chairman Cornelis van der Klugt
hinted last month that the company might have an announcement
on the matter soon.
   Philips reported in March that the computer operations had
heavy losses in 1989, but it didn't quantify them.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   TETRA TECHNOLOGIES Inc. said the lead underwriter for its
offering of 2,350,000 common shares is PaineWebber Inc. In
yesterday's OTC Focus column, the lead underwriter was
incorrectly identified.
   (See: "OTC Focus: Stocks Gain as Overseas Markets Rally;
Tetra Adds 1 1/8 to Lead Most-Active List" -- WSJ April 4,
1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Former Executives
   Of Cineplex Unit
   Name Firm in Suit
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CPX RANKY
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Six executives of Film House Group Inc., a
former unit of Cineplex Odeon Corp., launched a suit against
Cineplex for 18 million Canadian dollars (US$15.4 million),
alleging that the theater chain breached its promise to pay
them hefty incentive bonuses.
   The six plaintiffs described the aggregate C$75,000 that
they received as bonuses from Cineplex last December as
"paltry, miserable and lacking in good sense and judgment."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to the six executives, Garth Drabinsky, founder
and former chairman of Cineplex, promised "to make you all
rich" if they met or exceeded budgetary performance targets.
   Encouraged by Mr. Drabinsky's promise, the executives say
that they operated the plant seven days a week for 32 weeks
of 1989.
   The Film House executives claim they met or exceeded
budgetary performance levels that had been set for them. They
noted that, as a team, they increased sales to about C$64.5
million in 1989 from C$12.8 million in 1986. They claim that
they operated Film House "at a profit level close to 30% of
sales revenue which is . . . unmatched by any film laboratory
post production house in the world."
   Last week, Rank Organisation PLC completed the purchase of
the 51% of Film House it didn't already own for $40 million.
It had purchased the other 49% in 1988 for for an agreed
price of $73.5 million.
   But Cineplex claims in documents filed with the court that
the Film House executives didn't meet the targets which would
have allowed Cineplex to adjust upward the $73.5 million
price Rank was to pay for Film House. Instead, Cineplex was
obliged to repay between $10.8 million and $12.3 million of
that price.
   The six executives "were paid gratuitously,
notwithstanding that no incentive bonus was earned," Cineplex
said in the court filing.
   A spokeswoman for Cineplex declined further comment,
noting that the issue is before the courts.
   The Film House executives couldn't be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bairnco Says
   Unit's Insurance
   May Be in Doubt
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   BZ
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bairnco Corp. reaffirmed its plan to spin off
its Keene Corp. unit to shareholders, but it said the
insurance coverage that until now has protected Keene from
protracted asbestos-related legal settlements may be in
doubt.
   Bairnco's shares have fallen more than 50% in the past
week and have lost nearly two-thirds of their value since the
start of the year. On Tuesday, Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
removed the stock from its recommended list, citing
uncertainty about the asbestos litigation Keene faces and the
adequacy of its insurance coverage.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The litigation stems from Baldwin-Ehret-Hill, a business
that Keene acquired in 1968. The BEH unit was shed in 1974
although it stopped making products containing asbestos in
1972.
   Bairnco's shares rebounded a bit yesterday, closing at
$6.25, up 12.5 cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.
   Bairnco said in its annual report, filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission last Monday, that at the
end of 1989 about 70,300 bodily-injury cases were pending,
and in the first quarter, "new bodily-injury cases have
continued to be filed at a high rate."
   From the mid-1970s through the first quarter of 1990,
Keene's settlement and defense costs of settling nearly
60,000 bodily-injury cases totaled $260 million, of which
insurers paid $251 million, Bairnco's filing said.
   Keene estimates that at March 31, it had about $143
million of applicable insurance coverage remaining for
asbestos claims, "but substantially all" of it "is either
subject to litigation or dispute or will not be available
until after such insurance litigation or disputes or other
issues are resolved," the annual report says.
   Further, although "a large number" of bodily-injury cases
have been resolved for Keene, the company said it can't
predict the number of future claims or the rate of
dispositions.
   Keene also has $30 million of insurance coverage that it
calls "uncertain" because it is "owed to Keene by insolvent"
insurers. Keene is trying to recover part of the amount from
liquidators and state guaranty funds.
   The company said it is confident that it will win the
insurance litigation.
   Keene makes heat-shielding devices. After the spinoff,
which was announced in January, Bairnco plans to concentrate
on specialty laminates and adhesives, shielding systems, and
cutting products.
   "The whole worry is about this asbestos problem," says
Arthur Buffman, analyst at Jesup &amp; Lamont Inc. The analyst
notes that recently, institutions held about half Bairnco's
shares, creating a "herd instinct. Until that dries up, it'll
be a problem temporarily. They've got terribly good people
running the show, and in time they'll resolve it."
   Mr. Buffman said that "even though they might not be
justified, people are putting in" asbestos claims. Bairnco
said in its filing that "recent claims data suggest that
increasing proportions of bodily-injury cases are being
filed" by people who had only minimal exposure to asbestos
and are less likely to have suffered injury.
   Keene also is a defendant in some 83 property-damage cases
pending at Dec. 31. In January, three more were filed, the
filing said, adding that 29 states are seeking to hold Keene
and other companies liable for asbestos abatement in public
buildings in those states.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Magnetics Name Change
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   DMNG
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- American Magnetics Corp. stockholders
approved the company's proposed name change to Damon Group
Inc.
   Last year, through Nomad Partners L.P., American Magnetics
acquired Damon Corp., a Needham Heights, Mass., biotechnology
and medical laboratory concern, which is now its largest
principal business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Magnetics is a biotechnology and medical
laboratory and computer products concern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What the G-7 Can Do to Cut Interest Rates
   ----
   By C. Fred Bergsten
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   World economic growth is threatened by the risk of
continuing increases in interest rates in the major
industrial countries. The seven big industrial countries
should launch a coordinated response to the problem when they
meet in Paris this weekend and in Washington in early May, as
they successfully did on several occasions to sustain global
growth in 1986.
   Adjusted for inflation, real interest rates now range from
about 4% in the U.S. and Japan to about 6% in Germany. These
levels are at least double the historical norm. Rates seem
sure to climb further in the absence of international
agreement on a ceasefire.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Why are interest rates high and rising? Unlike the 1970s,
there is no risk of rapid inflation. Energy prices are
stable. Economic growth is modest, with little fear of
overheating. In the U.S., increases in labor costs in fact
decelerated over the past year and core inflation has not
risen. The modest blip in the price level in Japan is
explained by the adoption of its new consumption tax; a
similar blip in Germany has been caused by exaggerated
expectations of the impact of monetary unification with East
Germany.
   It is external, not internal, considerations that are
driving interest rates up in all the key countries. The U.S.
must attract $10 billion of capital inflow monthly to finance
its trade deficit. To keep the inflow coming, money markets
here must follow money markets abroad.
   Despite the recent strength of the dollar, American
authorities know that the influx of private foreign capital
could dry up at any moment (as it did in 1987). This would
push the dollar down sharply and inflation up. Despite the
Federal Reserve's rhetoric about the danger of inflation to
the domestic economy, its support for rising interest rates
derives largely from these international concerns. And
American interest rates are likely to keep going up if
foreign rates do.
   The world's weakest currency in recent months has been the
yen. This weakness is the main source of price inflation in
Japan, and it triggered the sharp decline in Japanese stock
prices. Massive currency intervention alone has failed to
defend the yen. Japan has thus raised its interest rates
sharply. The alternative is heightened trade tension with the
U.S., because higher Japanese trade surpluses will inexorably
result from a cheaper currency. Failing a coordinated
strategy, Japan will have to raise its rates again --
especially if American and European rates continue to climb.
   If that happens, Japanese investors may face a liquidity
squeeze, forcing them into general divestment from their
portfolios. Tokyo stocks will then tumble farther,
threatening the entire Japanese financial pyramid, as well as
the New York and other markets.
   The German mark has also weakened against the dollar.
Inflation-conscious Germans, aware that their economy is
already using all of its industrial capacity, seek a stronger
mark. But Germany's partners in the European Monetary System
will not accept a realignment against their currencies. So
the Bundesbank may raise interest rates again to try to
elevate the mark against the dollar. The bank will surely
follow any upward move from Washington.
   Interest rate hikes in each major country are being driven
to a considerable degree by developments in the others. The
result is an upward ratchet of rates that threatens growth
everywhere. The case for coordinated action is extremely
strong.
   The ideal package would be a modest reduction in American
interest rates coupled with pledges by Germany and Japan to
avoid further increases. This would halt the global monetary
tightening, encourage hesitant companies to resume investment
and promote continued growth. The package should also provide
for a renewed decline of the dollar, to resume the reduction
of America's trade deficits and enhance the pickup in the
world's weakest major economy.
   If a total ceasefire on higher interest rates cannot be
agreed upon, the U.S. should at least pledge to resist new
increases even if market forces do push foreign rates up a
bit more. Exchange rates would thus be moved in the right
direction and the incentives for authorities abroad to
tighten policy would be reduced.
   Such national commitments on monetary policy would be far
more credible if backed by fiscal tightening. The U.S., in
particular, needs to display decisive action on its budget
deficit. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has indicated that
deficit reduction could cut two percentage points off U.S.
interest rates without risking faster inflation.
   Borrowing less on financial markets would be the greatest
contribution the U.S. could make to the capital needs of
Eastern Europe and Third World debtors. The recent proposals
by House Ways and Means committee chairman Dan Rostenkowski
(D., Ill.), which would convert the deficit into a surplus
over the next five years, offer a promising foreign policy
initiative as well as a reinvigoration of the U.S. economy
through lower interest rates and a stronger trade balance.
   Japanese fiscal policy is already neutral or slightly
restrictive. West Germany, however, should finance economic
unification with East Germany through a one-time tax increase
rather than a currency conversion that could increase
inflationary pressures and give interest rates another upward
shove.
   When world growth seemed to be flagging in 1986, the seven
big industrial economies coordinated interest rates
successfully and sustained the recovery. The situation was
different then because oil prices were falling and the dollar
faced downward pressure. But the same principles apply today,
and the seven can and should replicate their earlier efforts
in order to ensure continued growth and stability into the
1990s.
   ---
   Mr. Bergsten is director of the Institute for
International Economics.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Why Did U.S. Trust Noriega?
   ----
   By Susan Kaufman Purcell
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   How did the U.S. end up allied with a corrupt,
drug-dealing thug like Manuel Noriega? This is the major
question addressed by two new books, John Dinges's "Our Man
in Panama: How General Noriega Used the U.S. -- and Made
Millions in Drugs and Arms" (Random House, 320 pages,
$21.95), and Frederick Kempe's "Divorcing the Dictator:
America's Bungled Affair With Noriega" (Putnam, 469 pages,
$24.95). Mr. Dinges, a contributor to, among others, the
Washington Post and Time magazine, and Mr. Kempe, a Journal
staff reporter, both describe how U.S. administrations
repeatedly opted for short-term benefits over long-term
costs. In the end, it took 25,000 U.S. troops and several
hundred casualties to undo the damage.
   Although both books cover much the same ground, they
differ in a number of ways, with Mr. Kempe, for example,
refusing to downplay the damage done by the Panama policy of
President Carter. To win passage of the controversial Panama
Canal treaties, the Carter administration worked overtime to
whitewash the Omar Torrijos regime of charges involving drug
trafficking, money laundering for the Mafia and secret
dealings with Castro that helped Cuba circumvent the U.S.
trade embargo. After Congress passed the treaties, the Carter
administration had yet another reason to ignore mounting
evidence that Torrijos also was shipping guns and ammunition
to the Sandinistas: Torrijos took the unwanted, deposed Shah
of Iran, extricating the U.S. from a sticky situation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As Mr. Dinges points out, the Carter administration did
remove Manuel Antonio Noriega, then Torrijos's corrupt head
of intelligence, from the U.S. government payroll, after a
history of drug involvement, rape and double-dealing against
the U.S. But as Mr. Kempe shows, Torrijos then went on to
expand his National Guard "with the blessing and assistance
of the U.S.," increasing its budget from $10 million to $100
million in 1978 alone. He argues that the canal negotiations
effectively legitimized the Torrijos regime and allowed it to
create "the system of corruption and broad military power
that Noriega would later exploit to repress a nation."
   Once Torrijos died in a 1981 plane crash, Noriega did just
that with no protests from Washington, which calculated, as
Mr. Kempe notes, that "he belonged twenty percent to them and
eighty percent to us." Coddling Noriega, argues Mr. Dinges,
gave the Reagan administration a "staging area for its
expanding military activities in Nicaragua and El Salvador. .
. ." Noriega also conveniently arranged for the fraudulent
election in 1984 of Nicolas Ardito Barletta, "a presidential
candidate he knew Washington would accept," and made "all the
right noises about the war on drugs."
   Both Messrs. Kempe and Dinges show that the ties between
the U.S. and Noriega only began fraying after his criminal
behavior became impossible to ignore. The discovery in 1984
of the beheaded corpse of Hugo Spadafora, an outspoken
Noriega critic, prompted Sen. Jesse Helms to hold hearings. A
New York Times front page article in June 1986 linked Noriega
to drugs, Marxist guerrillas, illicit money and the Spadafora
murder. Finally came the Florida indictments against Noriega.
   But even then, with a bipartisan, anti-Noriega consensus
in Congress, the Reagan administration could not agree on a
course of action. Economic sanctions were imposed because,
Mr. Kempe argues, they represented "the only step that
neither State nor Defense would block." Mr. Kempe also writes
that Mr. Reagan's subsequent plan to trade the Florida drug
indictments against Noriega for his resignation was opposed
by Vice President Bush because he feared it would provide
Michael Dukakis with campaign ammunition. Both Messrs. Kempe
and Dinges, however, question whether Noriega was serious
about making the deal anyhow.
   Only after bungling an opportunity to back an attempted
coup against Noriega last October did the Bush administration
finally decide to dump him. Mr. Kempe regards the invasion as
successful, "if costly." Mr. Dinges, upholding the orthodox
left-liberal line, argues that the invasion is evidence of
Washington's double standard, since the "scale of murder and
repression in Panama under Noriega was far from the killing,
torture and disappearances carried out during much of the
same period in Chile, Argentina, El Salvador and Guatemala
with considerably less U.S. official condemnation."
   Both authors conclude that Washington's Panama policy was
improvised from beginning to end. For Mr. Kempe, the Panama
case drives home "the cost to America of abandoning its
democratic principles and implementing short-term foreign
policy goals." Mr. Dinges feels the underlying problem is
that Washington's "real first priority" never was democracy
but "the defense against challenges to U.S. influence in the
area."
   Now that Latin America's dictators, with the exception of
Fidel Castro, have passed from the scene, it is tempting to
conclude that the lessons of Panama are no longer relevant.
But the "twilight of the tyrants" was announced once before,
by journalist Tad Szulc in 1959. Shortly thereafter, Latin
America was again ruled largely by dictators. It is hoped
this will not happen again. But if it does, "Divorcing the
Dictator" and "Our Man in Panama" should be required reading
for all U.S. policy makers.
   ---
   Ms. Purcell is vice president for Latin American affairs
at the Americas Society in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   James River Sells Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JR Z.GHO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   RICHMOND, Va. -- James River Corp. said it completed the
sale of its nonwoven products division to Holzstoff Holding
AG of Switzerland for about $175 million.
   The nonwoven products division, which makes materials for
diapers and hospital clothing, was sold as part of James
River's refocusing on its core paper businesses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The unit had sales of about $90 million for the first nine
months of fiscal 1990, which began May 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDermott Unit Gets Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   FTX MDR FRP
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW ORLEANS -- McDermott Marine Construction, a unit of
McDermott International Inc., received a $250 million
contract to design and build 15 offshore sulfur-mining
platforms for Freeport-McMoRan Resource Partners.
   Freeport-McMoRan Resource Partners is a limited
partnership and an affiliate of Freeport-McMoRan Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The platforms are to be installed in the Gulf of Mexico,
off the coast of Louisiana. The contract also calls for
construction of 13 bridges, a power-plant module and related
facilities. Fabrication will be at McDermott's fabrication
yards in Bayou Boeuf and New Iberia, La., as well as at the
company's Gulfport, Miss., shipyard.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   British Aerospace Commercial Aircraft Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS U.BA
</CO>
<LP>
   BRITISH AEROSPACE (COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT) Ltd.
(Hertfordshire, England) -- Robert McKinlay was named
managing director of this British aerospace company. Mr.
McKinlay, who is currently managing director, Airbus division
of British Aerospace (Commercial Aircraft), succeeds Maurice
Dixon, who is leaving the company to take up a senior
appointment outside British Aerospace.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST FORGN LATAM LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   A MATTER OF ROYAL CONSCIENCE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Belgium's King Baudouin has stepped down temporarily
because his conscience wouldn't let him sign a law legalizing
abortion, a government statement said.
   Ministers met overnight Tuesday to solve the
constitutional crisis and -- with the king's agreement --
declared he was temporarily unable to reign, the statement
said. The ministers then took over the king's powers and
enacted the abortion law, which parliament had passed on
March 29.
   Legal experts said the king, a deeply religious Roman
Catholic, was able to step down through a law intended for
use if the monarch was too ill to carry out his duties or was
prevented from doing so for other reasons. They said its use
in a matter of conscience was unprecedented.
   Ministers have called a session of parliament for today.
They will consider the motion that Baudouin's inability to
reign has ceased, "so that the king . . . will resume his
constitutional powers."
                                                                                                       

   IRELAND TO ABOLISH DEATH PENALTY
                                                                                                       

   Ireland will abolish the death penalty and introduce
automatic jail sentences of at least 30 years for certain
convicted killers, the government said in a bill published
yesterday. Under the old law, capital punishment applied only
to killers of policemen, prison officers and foreign leaders
and diplomats; hanging for all other killings was abolished
in the late 1950s. All political parties in the Irish
parliament support the bill, which is expected to pass into
law this year. Ireland's last execution took place in 1954.
                                                                                                       

   IMPROVING EAST GERMAN ROADS
                                                                                                       

   A new highway network in East Germany might be built by
private companies, who would then charge users a toll, West
Germany's Transport Minister Friedrich Zimmermann said. The
plan would involve improving and extending all of East
Germany's poor road system. West Germany already maintains
the three transit motorways between West Germany and West
Berlin, which lies deep inside East German territory.
                                                                                                       

   PHILIPPINE POWER SHORTAGE
                                                                                                       

   The Philippine government announced major electricity
cutbacks in Manila to cope with a critical power shortage.
Under the plan, government offices and major commercial
establishments will be without electricity for five
consecutive Mondays beginning April 23. Factories will lose
power for four hours one day each week, the government said,
and residential districts will have daily power cuts of up to
four hours.
                                                                                                       

   SWEDEN'S OVERSEAS INVESTMENTS
                                                                                                       

   Swedish companies' rate of foreign investment has hit
record levels this year and shows no sign of abating,
according to analysts. Figures from Sweden's central bank
show that Swedish companies have invested a gross 49.2
billion kronor ($8.02 billion) abroad during the first three
months this year, compared with 43.7 billion kronor for all
of 1989. One analyst said important reasons for Swedish
companies to acquire a foothold abroad are the high level of
domestic costs and a lack of qualified workers at home.
                                                                                                       

   PROTECTING FRANCE'S ENVIRONMENT
                                                                                                       

   The French cabinet approved a proposal prohibiting
off-road use of recreational motor vehicles. The proposal, if
passed by the National Assembly, would ban four-wheel-drive
vehicles, cross-country motorcycles and other vehicles in
areas such as sand dunes and marshes. The proposed law was
drafted because of concern that the off-road vehicles posed a
threat to hikers and to the environment.
                                                                                                       

   VIEWS OF THE U.N.
                                                                                                       

   International polls conducted for the United Nations
Department of Public Information show considerable approval
for the world body but also reveal ignorance about its
institutions, functions and the people who run them.
   Overall public awareness of the U.N. was high in almost
all countries surveyed, ranging from 70% in Mexico to 99% in
Denmark. However, given a list of five U.N.
secretaries-general since 1945, less than half the people
polled could identify Javier Perez de Cuellar as the current
U.N. chief.
   Still, Mr. Perez de Cuellar called the results of the
polls, which were conducted in the second half of last year,
"very encouraging." He added: "The general public now
recognizes that the United Nations is succeeding as an
institution for the resolution of conflict and the promotion
of peace."
   The studies showed that environmental protection was the
most popular U.N. issue with a majority of people in most
countries, although few knew about U.N. activities in this
area. Human rights, drug abuse, peace, children and crime
prevention also rated high.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   For the first time in 45 years, Hungary spent April 4 at
work. In previous years, the date was a holiday marking
Soviet military intervention to free the country from the
Nazis toward the end of World War II. The April 4 work-free
day will be replaced by one on Oct. 23, anniversary of the
failed 1956 Hungarian uprising against Soviet domination. . .
. Romania's ex-King Michael will return to his country this
month for the first time in 42 years, relatives said. The
68-year-old former monarch was put on a train out of Romania
in 1948 after the Communist government forced him to sign an
abdication document and has lived in exile in Europe and the
U.S. since then.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   California Regulators
   Let Mission Insurance
   Move Assets to Trusts
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- California insurance regulators said a
state court approved a rehabilitation agreement for Mission
Insurance Co's that, among other things, calls for the
transfer of $29 million in assets to government trusts from
the Los Angeles-based insurer, which has been in bankruptcy
proceedings since 1987.
   Completion of the transfer is subject to approval by a
federal court here overseeing the Chapter 11 bankruptcy
proceedings of Mission Insurance Group, the parent of Mission
Insurance Co's. A hearing on the plan is scheduled for May 9.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the rehabilitation plan, which was announced in
January, the assets and liabilities of Mission Insurance Co's
will be transferred to trusts overseen by the state insurance
commissioner, after which the shells of the companies will be
released from insurance liquidation proceedings and over to
Mission Insurance Group.
   The shells of the Mission Insurance Co's contain tax-loss
carry-forwards that make them attractive, said Dana Brooks, a
lawyer acting for the California Department of Insurance.
   The transfer to the government trusts from Mission
Insurance Co's will include $14 million in cash and 5.9
million common shares of Mission Insurance Group,
representing about 29% of the stock outstanding. Other assets
accumulated by state regulators to cover claims against
Mission Insurance Co's include about $400 million recouped to
date from settlements with reinsurers, Ms. Brooks said.
   California's Department of Insurance has sued to recover
about $2 billion in reinsurance -- an amount now reduced by
the settlements. Reinsurers, who assume certain risks from
insurance companies in return for a portion of the premiums,
have resisted paying Mission claims, alleging that Mission
had provided misleading financial information.
   Mission Insurance Co's insolvency was one of the largest
insurance company failures in history. Under Chapter 11, a
company is protected from creditor lawsuits while working out
a plan to pay its debts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   HEALTH COSTS
   ----
   By Richard Koenig
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   USHC LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
REAL ESTATE, REITS, LAND DEVELOPMENT (REL)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   When Hotels Replace
   Hospitals, What a Lift
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   COSMETIC-SURGERY patients may sleep better knowing their
overnight stay won't cost a fortune.
   In some cities, surgeons reject the convenience and
resources of hospitals and instead put their patients up in
first-class hotels nearby -- at substantial savings.
   After surgery, when patients ought to be near a hospital
but don't need to be in one, Richard Caleel, a cosmetic
surgeon in Chicago, uses small, European-style hotels close
to his downtown office and surgical center. Nightly rates at
the Talbot and Tremont, for example, range from $135 to $205.
   Insurers generally won't pay for elective surgery, so
patients can even splurge on the Ritz and still come out
ahead. Some Chicago hospitals charge $1,000 or more a night.
"A hotel room is more comfortable," says Dr. Caleel, "and the
food is better."
   At the Latham Hotel in Philadelphia, Julius Newman gets a
special rate well below $100 for his patients because he
typically refers more than 200 of them a year. Dr. Newman,
president of the American Board of Cosmetic Surgery, does all
his work at Graduate Hospital, about six blocks from the
Latham. Graduate Hospital charges $785 a night for a
semi-private room.
   Nurses drive Dr. Newman's patients to the hotel and stay
with them until about midnight if family members can't. The
doctor visits his patients at the hotel in the evening and
again the next morning before releasing them. "These patients
don't require intravenous fluids or other special support,"
Dr. Newman says.
   Larry Schoenrock, a plastic surgeon, puts his Santa Rosa,
Calif., patients in an English cottage guest house next to
his operating facility. They get private baths, fresh flowers
and vintage wines. Even with a bill of $295 for 24 hours of
private-duty nursing care, patients still save.
   For San Francisco patients, Dr. Schoenrock arranges
lodging for about $285 a night in quaint Victorian homes he
doesn't own. "Compared to the fee for a San Francisco
hospital room," he says, "that's only about half."
                                                                                                       

   Some HMOs Dock Docs'
   Pay for Stinginess
                                                                                                       

   HOLDING DOWN costs too much can backfire. U.S. Healthcare
Inc., a Blue Bell, Pa., company that runs health maintenance
organizations, uses membership surveys to ask whether members
have trouble getting referrals to specialists. The company
also checks records on hospital admissions to see whether
they fall below the norm. How doctors fare by these criteria
affects adjustments in their per-member payments.
   "Offices that are underutilizing have had decreases in
their compensation," says Michael Stocker, an executive in
the company's quality assurance program.
   Incentives to spend more rather than less contrast with
the traditional HMO impetus to guard against unnecessary use.
But the trend may gather strength. Balanced incentives can
help HMOs improve relations with doctors and protect both
from malpractice suits. HMOs feel emboldened to tie ratings
of doctors to compensation because of the growing data about
practice patterns.
   Av-Med Health Plan Inc., Miami, uses criteria like U.S.
Healthcare's to help determine which doctors get bonuses. At
Cigna Health Plan Inc., too, bonuses reflect quality as well
as economy. "If we get a doctor who's leading the pack in
cost containment, but his patients aren't satisfied, he's not
a star," says Michael Soper, the medical director.
   HMOs still stress that high costs don't necessarily mean
high quality, and finding the right balance of incentives
still involves educated guesswork. "This isn't physics," Dr.
Stocker says.
                                                                                                       

   Lots of Hospitals Don't
   Add Up to Lower Prices
                                                                                                       

   COMPETITION doesn't drive down hospital costs. It actually
jacks them up.
   A recent study of about half the community hospitals in
the U.S. found that patient costs were 11% higher in the most
competitive markets than in cities with only moderate
competition and 17% higher than in single-hospital
communities. Similarly, patients' bills in the most
competitive markets were 14% higher than in moderately
competitive cities and 24% higher than in the least
competitive communities.
   The study, conducted by Health Care Investment Analysts
Inc., Baltimore, evaluated more than 2,000 hospitals, each
with between 100 and 400 beds in use, for the years 1984
through 1988. Data were standardized to correct for such
variables as wage scales and complexity of patient mix. The
cost differences persisted despite higher occupancy rates in
the most competitive markets.
   In 1988, the median charge per patient was $4,337 in
markets with four or more hospitals. In contrast, the median
charge was $3,798 in communities served by two or three
hospitals and only $3,488 in single-hospital markets.
   In larger communities, "the facilities end up competing
with each other based not on price but on amenity levels --
who has the most sophisticated services, the fanciest
equipment," says George D. Pillari, president of the research
firm. "In effect, the hospitals start an arms race."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   FOR EVERY tax dollar spent on contraceptive services, more
than four tax dollars are saved in health and welfare costs,
the Alan Guttmacher Institute, a New York research group,
estimates. . . . "Cost containment" is now the chief reason
employers give for using flexible-benefit programs, A. Foster
Higgins &amp; Co. finds. Companies used to cite "the ability to
meet diverse employee needs."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Qume Corp. Offer Extended
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   QUME
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILPITAS, Calif. -- Qume Corp. said a previously reported
offer for the company has been extended.
   The group making the offer, Qume Chairman David Lee and
Wearnes Technology (Pte.) Ltd., a Singapore investment firm,
hasn't set an expiration date. The offer originally was made
earlier this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Qume, a maker of computer products, is considering the
$6.50-a-share offer, which values the company at roughly $50
million.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Qume
shares rose 12.5 cents to close at $6.125.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Royal Insurance Holdings PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.ROY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ROYAL INSURANCE HOLDINGS PLC (London) -- Roy Elms was
named group general manager of this composite insurer. Mr.
Elms was previously president and chief executive officer of
the Royal Insurance PLC subsidiary, Royal Insurance Co. of
Canada.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Do Economists Make Good Leaders?
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   In his Feb. 23 op-ed article on Peru, David Gallagher
refers to a class of leaders (such as Poland's Lech Walesa or
Argentina's Carlos Menem) "with the right instincts but
little knowledge of economics."
   I agree that Mr. Menem is not an economics expert, but
neither are most U.S. heads of state in recent history, yet
the U.S. is performing well by international standards. It is
usually the case that political leaders are not very
knowledgeable themselves, but they have a team of experts who
are. Some highly qualified economists, such as Ambassador and
Oxford Professor Guido di Tella, Harvard-trained Foreign
Affairs Minister Domingo Cavallo and Berkeley's Alieto
Guadagni, are currently working for the Argentine government.
This was also true of the Alfonsin administration (also
criticized by Mr. Gallagher): It included very capable
Harvard, Chicago and Minnesota economists, yet the result was
dismal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Gallagher seems to hold a simplistic view in which
countries do poorly due to the incompetence of their leaders.
He even goes into suggesting a rich menu of policies, such as
elimination of monopolies, liberation of labor markets,
reform of the tax system, etc. Today every person of average
intelligence in Argentina would agree in principle with those
measures. Why, then, are they not taken immediately?
   To answer that let me briefly review different levels of
economic analysis as applied to the problem. The most
superficial is macroeconomics, or monetary theory, which
ascribes inflation to mismanagement of the money supply. Mr.
Gallagher seems to be at what I will call the second level,
which goes beyond the monetary veil and observes many
microeconomic inefficiencies and proposes several measures
such as those mentioned. My opinion is that the second level
still fails to understand the political and sociological
nature of the problem. It is by applying political-science
tools like Game Theory that one can understand why such
"basic" measures are not taken.
   Argentina is a complex society, with enough strong
pressure groups to make a coordinated action (the only way
out in my view) very difficult. Still, power is not dispersed
enough to make it a competitive society. That is why
coordination is necessary. The past decades have seen those
sectors fighting a distributive battle, channeled through a
paternalistic state, from which they asked more than their
share, generating a gap that was financed by inflation.
Economists have been asking for measures such as those on Mr.
Gallagher's list for a long time. Only now they are starting
to understand the Prisoner's Dilemma nature of the problem:
Everyone could be better off in the long run if the right
measures are taken, but we are afraid that our short-run
sacrifice would be futile, given that the others will "cheat"
to improve their position.
   I consider that, even if Mr. Menem's chances of success
are slim, the odds would be even worse were the government
headed by someone better trained in economics, but with less
political leverage. Mr. Menem has the advantage of having
more control over those powerful interest groups than his
predecessor. The Peronist Party traditionally has smoother
relations with trade unions, the military and some
industrialists. The "right turn" taken by Mr. Menem is not
only due to the recognition that market-oriented policies are
necessary, but also to the fact that they can buy the support
of some historical enemies such as agro-exporters.
   For a long time economists believed that it was
politicians' fault not to understand economics well enough.
Now we are starting to realize that it is the other way
around.
   Mariano Tommasi
   Department of Economics
   University of Chicago
   Chicago
   ---
   I was surprised that Mr. Gallagher's otherwise excellent
article on Latin America's most remarkable politician (Mario
Vargas Llosa, now the leading candidate for the presidency of
Peru) contained no mention of the man who almost
single-handedly converted Peruvians to capitalism: Hernando
de Soto. In his masterpiece "El Sendaro Otro" ("The Other
Path"), he showed how the small free market, operating with
no legal protection, provided the vast majority of Peru's
production. He also showed how the current Peruvian
government works to frustrate any attempt to work within the
law. If Mr. Vargas Llosa succeeds in turning Peru capitalist,
he will doubtless have many to thank, but the greatest thanks
of all should go to Hernando de Soto.
   Jim Allman
   St. Louis
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Hubble Space Telescope, Plagued by Problems,
   May Open the Heavens but Has Cost the Earth
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Hubble space telescope, poised to be
launched by the space shuttle Discovery Tuesday, promises to
be one of science's proudest achievements. It will hunt for
black holes and help explain the birth of galaxies.
   It's also an example of Big Science gone bad.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The $1.54 billion telescope is at least seven years behind
schedule, $1 billion over budget and doesn't work as well as
expected. The reasons for that are more political than
scientific. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration
underestimated the telescope's price to win congressional
approval. Then the agency drove up the cost and complexity by
tying the telescope to the space shuttle, and using the
project to stave off layoffs.
   "We've been rolled too many times by megascience
projects," complains Rep. Bob Traxler, the Michigan Democrat
who heads the appropriations panel overseeing NASA. "They
develop a constituency and keep going, no matter what the
cost." In the past month, for instance, the Energy Department
increased the price of its superconducting supercollider
one-third to about $8 billion, and NASA engineers warned that
the $30 billion space station faces costly design changes.
   The space telescope is a case study in how science
projects get out of hand. From the beginning, astronomers and
NASA managers prized salesmanship as much as science. "A NASA
mission gets started by advertising the potential of an
idea," says Robert Brown, an astronomer who spent two years
as the space telescope's chief scientist. "Then you solve the
problems you find."
   NASA's biggest problem in the 1970s, when the agency
started selling and building the space telescope, was a lack
of political support. The agency was desperately trying to
line up backing for the space shuttle and fend off attempts
to close its big Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville,
Ala. The space telescope was designed to aid both efforts --
even though the cost to the program proved to be
considerable.
   Promoting the shuttle was the key. NASA designed the
telescope so it could be launched into orbit and serviced by
the shuttle, giving the shuttle a prominent role in space
science. Shuttle servicing also gave NASA a rationale to
slash the telescope's price tag so it would pass muster with
Congress. NASA could dispense with plans for costly testing
by promising to lug the telescope back from space and fix it
on the ground if anything important broke.
   "It was a political plus to use the shuttle," says Noel
Hinners, a former NASA science official who pushed the
telescope through Congress by citing the shuttle's technical
merits, too. But years after winning approval of the
telescope, NASA dropped its plans to haul the satellite back
to Earth -- fearing that the extra handling could harm the
instrument.
   NASA kept its plans for in-orbit servicing, but that led
to other problems. Designing the telescope so it would be
safe for astronauts to work on in space increased costs
sharply. The Challenger shuttle disaster in 1986 delayed the
telescope's launch by three years. Meanwhile, the orbit the
shuttle can reach -- about 350 miles above the ground -- is
so low that Earth blocks the telescope's view 40% of the
time. Overall, the space telescope will spend only one-third
of its time making observations, just slighty better than an
Earth-bound telescope, which can only work at night.
   Internal NASA politics also set back the space telescope.
NASA split the project between the Marshall facility, which
the White House was threatening to close, and the agency's
traditional astronomy center, Goddard Space Flight Center, in
Greenbelt, Md. The two centers fought regularly over testing
and design issues, say scientists involved in the project,
while the telescope fell behind schedule and its cost
escalated.
   Marshall also was forced by the Pentagon to limit the
number of managers it assigned to oversee the telescope. The
military feared that too many civilians would learn about
technology useful for spy satellites, says Robert Smith, a
Smithsonian Institution historian who has written a book
about the telescope. As a result of these tussles, says Mr.
Smith, NASA managers didn't catch engineering problems early
enough.
   Now, in some important respects, the telescope isn't as
good as advertised. Its ground-based computer system is
woefully inefficient, says C.R. O'Dell, a former telescope
chief scientist, who estimates that his observing time on the
telescope has been cut nearly in half because of the problem.
Scientists say the telescope's tracking system isn't quick
enough to follow storm systems on nearby planets, which
scientists want to study to help learn more about hurricanes
on Earth. Its parts are aging.
   The project's huge budget also led NASA to rule out
smaller missions that it could have launched sooner. If NASA
had built a smaller, cheaper telescope, "many of the
discoveries that {Hubble} will make might have been made 10
years earlier," writes Freeman Dyson, a physicist at the
Institute for Advanced Studies, in the astronomy magazine
"Sky &amp; Telescope."
   NASA officials believe that the launch of the space
telescope will silence the critics. Lennard Fisk, the
agency's space-science chief, says shuttle servicing will
enable NASA to update the telescope's instruments and repair
it if anything goes wrong. Edward Weiler, a NASA
space-telescope scientist, says the instrument "represents
the biggest leap in astronomical capability since Galileo put
a telescope to his eye."
   But a little skepticism is in order. In his book, "The
Space Telescope," Mr. Smith recounts an exchange a few years
back between James Beggs, who then headed NASA, and Rep.
Edward Boland, the Massachusetts Democrat who then headed the
appropriations subcommittee responsible for the agency.
   "The space telescope will be the eighth wonder of the
world," boasted the NASA administrator.
   "It ought to be at that price," replied the lawmaker.
   ---
                      Hubble Chronology
                                                                                                       

   1946 -- Princeton astronomer Lyman Spitzer proposes
orbiting space telescope
                                                                                                       

   1958 -- NASA established
                                                                                                       

   1962 -- National Academy of Sciences recommends a space
telescope
                                                                                                       

   1971 -- Early NASA space-telescope studies
                                                                                                       

   1977 -- NASA wins congressional approval of space
telescope; cost estimate of $435 million; 1983 launch date
                                                                                                       

   1981 -- Space-telescope mirror completed, one year behind
schedule
                                                                                                       

   1983 -- Launch delayed to 1986; cost estimate of $1.18
billion
                                                                                                       

   1984 -- NASA gives up idea of bringing space telescope
back to earth for servicing
                                                                                                       

   1986 -- Launch delayed after Challenger disaster
                                                                                                       

   April 10, 1990 -- Scheduled launch of space telescope;
cost estimate $1.54 billion
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ottawa Aims to Set
   Clean-Air Accord
   With U.S. by Fall
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government hopes to negotiate a
clean-air agreement with the U.S. by this autumn that will
settle Canada's longstanding grievance over U.S. acid rain
pollution, Canadian Environment Minister Lucien Bouchard
said.
   Mr. Bouchard told the House of Commons that the U.S.
Senate's approval Tuesday of a comprehensive clean-air bill
"moves us much closer to the opening of formal negotiations"
for a U.S.-Canada air quality agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He said U.S. and Canadian officials have met frequently in
the past year to discuss the framework and "essential
details" of such an agreement. He predicted formal
negotiations with the U.S. will begin soon and "we hope that
it will be possible to conclude an agreement by the fall."
   The acid rain issue has been the Canadian government's
biggest grievance with the U.S. for much of the past decade.
Canada blames wind-carried pollution from the U.S. for half
of the acid rain that falls on Canada. Acid rain occurs when
gases from smokestacks and other sources combine with
moisture in the air and fall to the ground, often hundreds of
miles from the pollution source.
   The Canadian government claims that acid rain has
destroyed fish and other life in at least 14,000 Eastern
Canadian lakes. The government says an additional 300,000
lakes are damaged or vulnerable.
   The Canadian government has reached agreements with the
country's seven Eastern-most provinces requiring a 50%
reduction in sulfur dioxide emissions by 1994. Sulfur
dioxide, which is emitted by power plants, smelters and other
sources, is ranked as the biggest single cause of acid rain.
   Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and President Bush are
expected to discuss the acid rain issue when they meet in
Toronto on Tuesday. Soon after Mr. Bush was elected, he
assured Mr. Mulroney that the U.S. administration would take
concrete action on acid rain.
   The proposed agreement with the U.S. would set targets for
reducing acid gas emissions. The Canadian government says
that sulfur dioxide emissions in Eastern Canada are already
down 40% from their 1980 level.
   Wind-carried Canadian pollution accounts for 10% to 25% of
the acid rain that falls in the Northeastern U.S., Canadian
officials estimate.
   The Canadian government and the Carter administration
agreed in 1979 to negotiate an accord to control
trans-boundary air pollution. But Ottawa wasn't able to
negotiate such a pact with the Reagan administration.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Fed's Arsenal Has Only One Big Gun
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   "Fed Has Lost Much of Its Power to Sway U.S. Interest
Rates" reads the headline on your March 12 page-one story.
Truth to tell, the Fed never had much power to sway U.S.
interest rates.
   The Fed can control directly one thing and one thing only:
the amount of high-powered money or the monetary base
(currency plus deposits at Federal Reserve). Changes in the
base in turn affect interest rates, broader monetary
aggregates and, through them, inflation, economic activity
and exchange rates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If it chooses to do so, the Fed can use its control over
the base to peg a particular interest rate such as the
federal funds rate. But if it does so, it must accept
whatever happens to other magnitudes affected by the base,
including the level of inflation. That means that, while the
Fed can peg or control the nominal federal funds rate, it
cannot control the real rate (i.e., the nominal rate minus
the rate of inflation). Similarly, it cannot control both the
federal funds rate and the long-term rate.
   Capital markets have long been linked internationally, and
that has tended to make real interest rates in different
countries tend toward roughly the same level. But nominal
rates are a different matter, since they reflect anticipated
movements in exchange rates, which in turn are linked to
anticipated rates of inflation in different countries.
   So long as exchange rates are free to float, the Fed has
as much control over the monetary base as it ever did, and
can, if it wishes, use that control as readily as it ever
could to target any one of a range of nominal magnitudes,
including the federal funds rate and the rate of inflation.
   The inflation of the 1970s did not arise because of the
Fed's impotence, but because it repeatedly chose to use its
control of the monetary base to hold down the federal funds
rate to levels that generated excessive increases in monetary
aggregates. The inevitable result was sky-high interest rates
-- hardly the result the Fed intended. Fortunately, the Fed
has learned from that experience and is not likely to repeat
that mistake.
   Milton Friedman
   Senior Research Fellow
   Hoover Institution
   Stanford, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Seoul Unveils Plan to Stimulate Economy,
   But Trade Friction, Inflation May Result
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- The government unveiled yet another
plan to stimulate the Korean economy, but one that analysts
say could boost exports and thereby trigger trade friction
and inflation.
   The government's new team of economic ministers, installed
after a cabinet shake-up late last month, wants South Korea
to once again emphasize exports as an engine for economic
growth. To be sure, the government says it won't revert to an
export-at-any-cost policy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There will be no return to the past, overzealous export
drive," Deputy Prime Minister Lee Seung Yun said. Indeed, the
plan is modest: Among other things, the government will
double an existing $1.4 billion fund for long-term,
low-interest loans to stimulate export industries.
   The Japan-like export-growth prescription that was
followed by South Korea in the late 1970s and 1980s produced
a period of rapid growth. But the reformist team of economic
ministers ousted from the cabinet last month had advocated
paying more attention to social inequities that are fueling
discontent. That was unpopular with Korea's big business
conglomerates, and the cabinet shake-up was seen as a way for
the government's ruling party to appease the companies.
   Under the former cabinet's policies, South Korea's trade
surplus fell to $900 million in 1989 from $9 billion the year
before. Exports to the U.S. dropped 4.2% last year.
   But the flagging economy and the new drive to push exports
could exacerbate trade tensions with the U.S. The Korean
government is also trying to limit imports of consumer
products and, because of the tough times, the large companies
that dominate South Korea's economy are less likely to make
concessions to open the country's markets, as the U.S. has
demanded.
   The deputy prime minister also said that the South Korean
currency will "be adjusted to a more realistic level." The
won's exchange rate reflects market forces and can be
adjusted to fit government policy, in this case to promote
exports. Thus analysts expect the won to continue to fall
against the dollar, despite inflation fears. The rate now
stands at about 700 won to the dollar, down from about 670
this past summer.
   With or without the plan, many analysts expect the economy
to get better. Experts say the export-dependent economy
touched bottom recently and will be showing improvement this
summer as export volume resumes growth after a flat 1989.
   Yesterday's announcement blamed the economy's slide on
declining exports, which in turn were blamed on sharp wage
increases and the appreciation of the won. A strengthening
won forces Korean manufacturers to raise prices in the U.S.
or reduce profit margins.
   But many economists blame South Korea's economic problems
on its lack of product innovation more than higher prices
overseas. South Korea's big companies usually tag along after
the Japanese and haven't come up with innovative products.
The new policy mentions this problem, but offers no quick
solutions.
   "Korea has bumped up against its technological limits,"
said Henry Morris, chief representative of Kleinwort Benson
Ltd. in Seoul. "It is a problem that hasn't been seriously
addressed in Korea."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Novelist Is Leading
   As Peru Prepares
   To Elect President
   ----
   By Jonathan Cavanagh
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   LIMA, Peru -- In his novels, Mario Vargas Llosa deals with
corruption, decay, fanaticism and apocalypse. Soon, it
appears, he will grapple with these issues rather than just
write about them.
   Indeed, as Peruvians prepare to elect their new president
on Sunday after a terror-filled campaign, the renowned
novelist-turned-politician appears all but certain to take
the helm of a country whose situation often seems more
surreal than his novels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With Peru's economy in shambles, opinion polls show Mr.
Vargas Llosa with about 40% of the vote, far ahead of his
nearest rival, Luis Alva Castro, the candidate of the ruling
American Revolutionary Popular Alliance. If Mr. Vargas Llosa
isn't elected outright on Sunday, a runoff will be held in
late May or early June, and polls show him winning easily.
It's less sure he'll have an absolute majority in Congress,
also up for election Sunday.
   A one-time admirer of Fidel Castro, the 54-year-old Mr.
Vargas Llosa now is a fan of Margaret Thatcher, and pledges
for Peru the sort of free-market shock treatment that other
South American countries such as Brazil and Argentina are
getting. He promises to end food, fuel and medicine subsidies
financed by money-printing, sell state companies, lower
tariff barriers on trade and devalue Peru's currency.
   But Mr. Vargas Llosa and current President Alan Garcia say
Peru can't afford to immediately pay back its $16.7 billion
foreign debt. Mr. Vargas Llosa, however, also talks of
improving relations with foreign creditors, long strained by
Mr. Garcia's confrontational stance. Peru recently resumed
some payments to the International Monetary Fund.
   Mr. Vargas Llosa says his policies are the only way to
prevent Peru from falling into social and economic chaos. The
economy contracted by 10.4% last year. One of the only growth
industries is coca leaf, the base material of cocaine.
   During Mr. Garcia's five-year term, hyperinflation ruled.
Still, there is widespread fear in Peru of rioting if Mr.
Vargas Llosa's adjustment policies are applied as radically
as he wants. Some older politicians in his Democratic Front
Alliance want him to show more concern for protecting
people's jobs in an economy where only about 20% of the work
force is adequately employed.
   Terrorism is another major problem. More than 16,000
people have been killed in 10 years of strife and
counterinsurgency operations. During the election campaign,
Maoist Shining Path guerrillas killed dozens of candidates,
cut electrical power and set off explosions to intimidate
voters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sevenson Gets Contracts
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SEVN
</CO>
<LP>
   NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y. -- Sevenson Environmental Services
Inc. said it received two contracts totaling $15.5 million
for the cleanup of industrial waste sites in New Jersey.
   One contract valued at $13.4 million is for
decontamination and partial demolition of a facility at
Manville, N.J., previously operated by a unit of Manville
Corp., Denver.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The second contract, for $2.1 million, is for excavation
and off-site disposal of contaminated soil from a former
industrial site operated by Youngs Rubber Co. at Trenton,
N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Most of the Stores in Bonwit Teller Chain
   To Be Closed, Bankruptcy Judge Orders
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   TIF A.HKR
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
RETAILING (RET)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A U.S. bankruptcy-court judge ordered the
liquidation of most Bonwit Teller retail stores, rejecting
last-minute appeals to save the once-proud chain.
   At a court hearing, Judge Tina Brozman awarded five of the
chain's 16 stores to a group led by developers Donald Trump,
Alfred Taubman, Phil Palevsky, and Pyramid Cos., for about
$21 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Three of those stores will be liquidated, as will eight
others around the country, putting most of the chain's 1,800
employees out of work. Late last year, Bonwit's sister chain,
B. Altman &amp; Co., was entirely liquidated. The two chains'
parent, L.J. Hooker Corp., filed for bankruptcy law
protection last summer.
   Pyramid, a Syracuse-based mall developer, will operate the
Bonwit Teller stores in Buffalo and Boston and has acquired
the rights to the Bonwit Teller name. In an interview, a
senior Pyramid executive said that Pyramid intends to open a
new Bonwit Teller store this fall in Syracuse. He estimated
Pyramid's cost at $8.2 million plus the assumption of certain
employee liabilities.
   Mr. Trump has acquired the lease to the Bonwit Teller
flagship at Trump Tower in New York for about $5 million. In
an interview, he said he intends to close the store and lease
it to at least two new tenants. Possible tenants include
Chanel Inc. and Tiffany &amp; Co., he said.
   "We wanted the lease back because it has another 14 years
to run," said Mr. Trump. "I'm very happy, and I have no
doubts we'll be able to attract several prestigious
retailers."
   Mr. Trump said that Mr. Taubman bought back the lease to
the Bonwit Teller store at the Mall at Short Hills, which is
based in Short Hills, N.J., and that Mr. Palevsky bought the
lease to the Bonwit Teller branch in Manhasset, L.I. Both
stores also will be closed.
   Judge Brozman awarded the Bonwit Teller store in Palm
Beach to Frances Brewster, a southeast Florida specialty
retailer that currently operates four stores. Frances
Brewster will operate the Bonwit Teller store under its own
name.
   "We're very pleased that the name will go on, but we're
quite disappointed that it won't be in more locations," said
Elayne Garofolo, senior vice president of marketing at Bonwit
Teller. "The employees are taking it as well as one would
expect. They are being professional."
   An attorney for L.J. Hooker said in court yesterday that
former Bonwit Teller President William Ruben had indicated he
was attempting to arrange financing to buy l3 stores.
However, Mr. Ruben didn't make a formal bid, and Judge
Brozman moved the case forward.
   "We should have had more opportunity to save this
business, because we had the financing," said Irwin M.
Rosenthal, a senior partner at Baer, Marks &amp; Upham, and an
attorney for Mr. Ruben and his group of investors. "If they
would have given us another hour, we could have saved the
company and the jobs of its employees. It's tragic and a
travesty of justice."
   One of the country's oldest retailers, Bonwit Teller was
founded in 1898 and soon became one of New York's most
fashionable stores. Its former flagship on Fifth Avenue,
since demolished, was for years a Manhattan landmark. Bonwit
Teller had losses of approximately $30 million over the past
three years, according to a spokesman for L.J. Hooker.
Although it appeared to be turning around, it foundered last
spring when L.J. Hooker stopped providing it with cash for
new merchandise.
   In addition to Boston and Buffalo, two other Bonwit Teller
branches will continue to operate, at least temporarily. L.J.
Hooker has reached a licensing agreement with Pyramid that
will allow it to operate stores in Hooker-owned malls in
Cincinnati and Columbia, S.C., under the Bonwit Teller name.
But L.J. Hooker currently is trying to sell the two stores.
   L.J. Hooker is owned by Sydney-based Hooker Corp., which
is being managed by a court-appointed provisional liquidator.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CYM LPL+ ADVN ADTLY Z.NES ETR
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
REAL ESTATE, REITS, LAND DEVELOPMENT (REL)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cyprus Minerals Co. -- $150 million of notes, due April 1,
2002, was priced at par to yield 10.125%. The non-callable
notes were priced at a spread of 151 basis points above the
Treasury's 10-year note. Rated Baa-2 by Moody's Investors
Service Inc. and triple-B by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the
issue will be sold through underwriters led by First Boston
Corp.
   Lousiana Power &amp; Light Co. -- $100 million of first
mortgage bonds, due April 1, 2020, was won in competitive
bidding by a group led by Salomon Brothers Inc. The bonds
will be reoffered at 98.125 to yield 10.33%, or a spread of
174 basis points above the Treasury's bellwether bond. The
issue, which is non-refundable for five years, is rated Baa-3
by Moody's and triple-B by S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                        MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

   New Jersey -- $350 million various full faith and credit
general obligation bonds, due April 1, 1992-2011, apparently
were won by a Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. group. The bonds, rated
triple-A by both Moody's and S&amp;P, were priced for reoffering
to yield from 6.10% in 1992 to 7.10% in 2010 and 2011.
Current interest serial bonds are priced to yield from 6.10%
in 1992 to 7.10% in 2010 and 2011. There are no term bonds.
   Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority -- $205 million
general obligation bonds, due March 1, 1991-2000, 2003, 2005,
2010 and 2015, were priced by a Merrill Lynch Capital Markets
group to yield from 6.50% in 1991 to 7.85% in 2015. Current
interest serial bonds were priced to yield from 6.50% in 1991
to 7.20% in 2000. There are $20 million term bonds priced at
99.16 to yield 7.35% in 2003. There are $16.5 million term
bonds priced at 97.97 to yield 7.35% in 2005. There are $51.4
million term bonds priced at 92.44 to yield 7.75% in 2010.
There are $73 million term bonds priced at 97.54 to yield
7.85% in 2015. The bonds are rated Baa by Moody's and
triple-B by S&amp;P, excluding bonds due in 19952000 and 2005,
which are MBIA-insured and rated triple-A by both agencies.
Term bonds due in 2003 are FGIC-insured and also rated
triple-A by both agencies.
                                                                                                       

                         MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Advanta Corp. -- $53.7 million of Class A certificates
were sold privately by two wholly-owned subsidiaries,
Colonial National Bank USA and Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA,
representing ownership interests in Advanta Home Equity Loan
Trust 1990-1. The issue was underwritten by Morgan Stanley &amp;
Co. The trust holds certain fixed-rate, closed-end home
equity loans and will elect real estate mortgage investment
conduit status. The certificates are insured by Financial
Guaranty Insurance Corp. and rated triple-A by both Moody's
and S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   ADT Ltd. (Bermuda) -- #100 million of cumulative
preference shares, due July 31, 2005, exchangeable into
ordinary shares of BAA PLC, the British airports ownership
and management group, via Credit Suisse First Boston. Fixed
price is #1,000 per preference share. Shares pay 8%
semi-annual dividend. Conversion premium is expected to be
15%19% above share price when terms are fixed on or before
April 10. Cash option, so that when preference shares are
exchanged, issuer may elect to pay the cash equivalent.
Callable from July 1993 at par, subject to BBA shares
exceeding exchange price by percentage equal to put price.
Put option on July 31, 1995 indicated at a price to yield
50-75 basis points above the 12% U.K. gilt due 1995. Fees 2
1/2.
   World Bank (agency) -- 1 billion French francs of 10%
eurobonds due May 9, 1997 priced at 101 1/2 to yield 10.05%
less fees, via Credit Commercial de France. Fees 1 3/4.
   Nestle Holding Inc. (Swiss parent) -- 100 billion lire of
13 1/4% eurobonds due May 4, 1993, priced at 101 1/2, via
Istituto Bancario San Paolo di Torino. Fees 1 3/8.
   Republic of Turkey (sovereign) -- 250 million deutsche
marks of 10% bonds due April 24, 1997, priced at 102 to yield
9.59%, via Commerzbank AG. Fees 2 1/4.
   Eurofima (agency) -- $75 million (Australian) of 14 5/8%
eurobonds due May 9, 1994, priced at 101.60, via Deutsche
Bank Capital Markets. Fees 1 3/4.
   Girozentrale Vienna (Austria) -- 1.5 billion Austrian
schillings of floating rate notes due April 1998 priced at
par and paying interest at 1/8 point below the three-month
Vienna interbank offered rate, via Girozentrale Vienna. Call
option from 1993 at par and on every payment date thereafter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Greyhound Boosts Service,
   To Offer Some Free Tickets
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TRANSPORTATION, TRUCK AND SHIP LINES, RAILROADS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Hoping to bolster business prior to the pivotal
Easter travel weekend, strikebound Greyhound Lines Inc. said
it was increasing service in its Eastern division and
offering passengers in some cities free-round trip tickets if
buses don't arrive within 15 minutes of their scheduled time.
   Greyhound Lines, a unit of GLI Holding Co., said it would
begin offering hourly departures from New York to Boston,
Philadelphia and Washington, D.C., on Fridays and Sundays and
that service between New York and eight Northeastern cities,
plus Miami, had been restored to pre-strike levels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said the free round-trip tickets would be
available to passengers traveling between any of nine cities,
including Boston, Philadelphia and Washington.
   A company spokesman said the additions would put the
company's miles of scheduled service at about 55% of
prestrike levels and that, as of Tuesday, Greyhound was
carrying about 47% the number of passengers as the same day a
year ago. Officials at the striking Amalgamated Transit Union
claim both figures are inflated.
   The promotional campaign comes as a walkout by 9,300 ATU
members enters its second month. Amid continued vandalism and
sniper attacks on Greyhound buses, no talks have been
scheduled.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ukrainians Rally
   For Lithuania
   And Own Freedom
   ----
   By Anne Applebaum
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   LVOV, Ukraine -- In an office lacking furniture, carpets,
posters and secretaries, Petryk Olik, a deputy to the
Ukrainian Parliament and a leader of the Ukrainian opposition
movement Rukh, is surprised when asked if he fears the
future. He begins to grin, and then laugh, his mouth
revealing the gaps left by the Soviet police who kicked in
his teeth during a demonstration last fall. "How can we be
afraid? We have the same right to independence as any other
nation."
   Near Rukh's office, a crowd gathers daily in the square
across from the Lvov opera house, built when the city was
part of Austro-Hungarian Galicia. Old women and young men
argue about politics and grab greedily at the new samizdat
newspapers, which bearded students pull out of their
backpacks. An elderly man shouts at a group of flag-waving
Estonians, telling them they have no right to interfere in
the Ukraine's own independence movement. Another man stops
him, explaining that all the republics must act together.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Three old ladies lay flowers beneath a portrait of Stefan
Bandera, the independence leader who fought with the Nazis
against Stalin. The portrait leans permanently against a
flagpole in the center of the square. The women hope a statue
to Gen. Bandera will soon be built in Lvov.
   The portrait, normally surrounded by admirers, was left
standing alone in the square Saturday afternoon as everyone
flocked to a demonstration in support of Free Lithuania. Ten
thousand people stood holding blue and yellow Ukrainian
flags, listening to calls for an independent Ukraine to
follow an independent Lithuania.
   A representative from Vilnius, apologizing for speaking
Russian, called for unity: "All of the republics must act as
one against the Russian threat."
   In recent months, Lvov has become the center of a
fast-growing independence movement. Lvov and the Western
Ukraine were absorbed into the Soviet Union only in 1939, and
the city's older inhabitants still remember life in the
pre-war Polish republic. Then, the city was dominated by
Poles and Jews, while the Ukrainians lived in the
countryside. Now, the Poles have departed and the Jews are
lining up to get visas for Israel, but the Ukrainians who
have replaced them have a cultural memory of a brief spell of
independence early in this century.
   More than 80% of the Lvov city council's members now have
a non-Communist orientation. All of the parliamentary
deputies from the western part of the republic also are
non-Communist, although the East retains a few. Under the
influence of their Polish friends in Solidarity and the
Polish television they watch every evening, the leaders of
Rukh in Lvov have devised a plan to link their strong
political-intellectual movement (Rukh, an umbrella
organization, is trying to register itself as an independent
political party) with the slower moving, yet deeply
dissatisfied Eastern Ukraine. They say their plan follows a
road halfway between Lithuanian and Polish independence:
working for peaceful parliamentary change, while at the same
time using the strike as a weapon.
   With the conviction of someone who spent years in Soviet
work camps, Bogdan Horyn -- sometimes referred to as the
Ukrainian Lech Walesa -- insists patiently that this path is
possible. "There is nothing to unite the Soviet Union
anymore, now that the (Communist) Party has lost its power,"
he says.
   Mr. Horyn recently visited the miners of the Donau region
in the Eastern Ukraine. They come from the Ukrainian peasant
tradition, which was destroyed by Stalinist collectivization
in the 1930s and was subsequently subject to more repression
and destruction than any other part of the Soviet Union. They
don't speak Ukrainian.
   If Mr. Horyn and the other Ukrainian leaders succeed in
bringing the miners into Rukh's fold, the resulting chaos
would make the current confusion over Lithuania look like a
minor squall. Ukraine is the one Soviet republic that could
never secede without a fight. Its grain feeds Russia, and the
republic provides the bulk of non-Russian labor and industry
in the Soviet Union. "So perhaps in the future Russia without
the Ukraine will simply be a small, poor country lying
between Europe and Asia," Mr. Horyn says with a shrug.
   In Western Ukraine, Rukh is growing almost exponentially.
Mr. Horyn speaks of a "million or so" members with a wave of
his hand. A small peasant woman in the countryside crosses
herself when she hears the movement's name: Rukh's growth has
coincided with the renovation of churches that perform the
characteristic non-Orthodox, non-Roman Catholic rites that
are a trademark of the region. A small group of Jews sitting
in the city's one remaining synagogue say they also support
Rukh, whose leaders say they try to avoid the anti-Semitism
of Russian nationalism.
   Poverty feeds dissatisfaction. Trash lies uncollected on
the streets of Lvov. Sometimes bread is unavailable. Soap is
rationed. City residents keep their bathtubs filled to the
limit with water, knowing that their taps will run only
between 6 a.m. and 9 a.m. Water must be ladled out of the
bath during the day for washing, cooking and cleaning. How
long has this rationing continued? Ten years, replies one
Lvov housewife, who says she is so afraid that the water will
be turned off completely that she wouldn't dare complain.
   More than anything else, hatred for Soviet President
Mikhail Gorbachev links all of the ethnic and social groups
in Ukraine. A universal feeling equates Mr. Gorbachev with
Moscow, Russian imperialism and poverty. Should he impose
martial law on Lithuania, no one in Lvov would be surprised,
but neither would they be afraid. With the countryside
destroyed, the city crumbling and the culture suppressed,
there is nothing much for people here to lose by issuing a
declaration of Ukrainian independence.
   ---
   Ms. Applebaum is the Warsaw correspondent of The
Economist.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Resolution Funding Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Resolution Funding Corp. said it plans
to sell $3.5 billion of 40-year bonds next Tuesday.
   Proceeds will be used to finance the overhaul of the
nation's savings-and-loan industry. The new bonds will be
dated April 17 and mature April 15, 2030.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bonds, available in minimum denominations
of $1,000, must be received by 1 p.m. Tuesday, April 10, at
Federal Reserve Banks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Welfare Stagnation Besets Smug Sweden
   ---
   Changes Abroad, Inertia
   At Home Grip `Model Society'
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP S.SAA
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BORLANGE, Sweden -- Saturday night in Steeltown,
Scandinavia.
   Smoke belches from a forest of smokestacks. Snow falls on
Main Street. Teenagers huddle, waiting to hear a local punk
band called Dead Future. "They scream too much but their
lyrics are good," says Nikolas Tyde, a broad-shouldered
17-year-old blond. "They sing about Sweden going down. There
is revolution in Eastern Europe, and what happens here?" He
stamps cold feet, crushes a Coke can. "Same rules. New
taxes."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Such are the stirrings of trouble in paradise. Sweden --
placid, prosperous, and smug -- has the shivers. Economic
stagnation is pinching the social-welfare life style to which
Swedes are accustomed. Rapid change abroad, coupled with
inertia at home, has Swedes wondering if their vaunted model
is falling out of fashion.
   This self-doubt is surfacing just as Eastern Europeans
flood to Stockholm for tutelage in Sweden's "middle way"
between communism and capitalism: a free-market economy,
committed to social justice.
   "The Swedish model doesn't suit Eastern Europe -- or us
anymore," says Ake Andersson, director of Stockholm's
Institute for Future Studies. "We were never a Romania or
Poland."
   Instead, Sweden was a small, homogenous and thriving
nation when it fashioned the high-tax welfare state that has
become its trademark. Mr. Andersson adds that the Swedish
model, with its tight central controls, isn't agile enough to
fit a dynamic European market. "We're still trying to dance
classical ballet on the set of `West Side Story,'" he says.
   Swedish angst requires some perspective. Sweden has
unemployment of 1.4%, a budget surplus and well-swept streets
crowded with Saabs. Pressed to identify decline, Swedes
usually point to litter on the subway or the sight of
beggars.
   Even so, worrying signs are appearing. Sweden's wage
inflation of 10% is double the European average, its growth
rate of 1.5% is less than half the Continent's. Soaring costs
threaten Sweden's export-oriented industries, which also face
tougher competition from a uniting Europe.
   The biggest growth area of the Swedish economy, the public
sector, consumes 61% of gross national product. Government
attempts at austerity have flopped.
   History helps explain why Sweden resists change -- and why
no nation outside Scandinavia has come close to replicating
its success. Sweden last fought a war in 1814, missed the
1930s depression, and boomed after World War II, when Europe
and Japan lay in tatters. With its overwhelmingly Nordic,
Lutheran and well-educated population, Sweden has enjoyed
remarkable consensus. The Social Democrats have ruled for 52
of the past 58 years.
   Sweden's welfare state remains the world's most lavish and
equitable, providing basic hospital care for under $10 a day,
high-quality education for nominal fees, and generous child
allowances.
   Swedes may take 15 months parental leave -- a year at 90%
to 100% pay, the rest at a lower rate -- and parents may
split the time. Workers get a minimum of five paid weeks of
vacation a year.
   Sweden's taxes, long the world's highest, are falling,
with the highest marginal tax rate currently 62%. But to
maintain revenue, the state has raised sales taxes and
extended them to more goods, pushing already high prices into
the stratosphere. A gallon of gas costs $4, a pack of
cigarettes $5, a pint of beer $7, and a loaf of white bread
$3 to $4, though housing is affordable. Overall, Swedes' real
income has been flat for 20 years.
   More irksome to many Swedes is what they regard as the Big
Brother tendencies of their carefully engineered state.
Non-cable television is limited to two state-run channels,
which broadcast only about seven hours a day. Television and
radio advertising is prohibited on these channels, which are
the only ones that most Swedes receive. Alcohol sales are
barred at nights and on weekends. Private schools and
hospitals are almost nonexistent. The 23% sales tax largely
dictates how Swedes spend their money.
   Though almost all are middle class, many speak enviously
of what they perceive as greater buying power in the U.S.
High taxes and small wage differentials between skilled and
unskilled work have sapped incentive to work overtime or to
gain skills that bring little extra money.
   Stefan Johansson assembles truck engines on Saab-Scania's
"disco line," so-called because the unit spent its annual
bonus on a quadraphonic sound system. On this day, as on most
others, a third of the factory's work force is off sick, on
holiday or on other authorized leave.
   "A lot of the young guys aren't motivated," says Mr.
Johansson, 38, greasing engine parts to the beat of
heavy-metal music. The biggest problem, he says, is abuse of
fully paid sick leave. "Why work when you can earn the same
at home?"
   With unemployment so low, workers know they can easily
find other jobs if they are dissatisfied. Last year,
Saab-Scania had 29% turnover, twice the rate that prevailed
in 1985. The mobility and the absenteeism mean that new
people are always on the line, hampering productivity and
quality control.
   Swedes are slowly accepting the need for incentives. Top
tax rates fall to 50% next year. Sick leave is likely to be
reformed, with employers assuming more control over
absentees. But Sweden seems reluctant to go beyond
fine-tuning its system. Says the Future Institute's Mr.
Andersson: "You can't slaughter sacred cows overnight, even
if it's the only way to keep your belly full."
   With a third of Swedish workers in the public sector --
more than double the U.S. rate -- Swedes strongly resist
dismantling the bureaucracy.
   But almost every economic indicator is dire. Consumer
prices leaped 3.2% in January, and some big multinationals
have reported falling profits. Swedish industries, which
export 40% of their output, are rapidly moving production to
such countries as Portugal, where costs are lower.
   Borlange, an industrial city in the piney woods of central
Sweden, has kept unemployment to nearly zero through
retraining and other measures, even though the steelworks has
cut its labor force by half.
   At a high-tech paper mill, many workers labor without a
foreman, in a factory with 50-foot-high windows and wall
murals of woods and ponds. The last major strike at the mill
was in 1909.
   Yet young people feel aimless, trapped and most of all,
bored. The popular punk band, Dead Future, speaks to the
young by singing about drugs and hatred for the city's Middle
Eastern immigrants -- a common scapegoat for the strains in
Sweden's welfare system.
   "For too long we assumed that taking care of physical
needs was enough," says Mr. Andersson, a former defense
minister and currently regional head of the Social Democrats.
He says Sweden can learn from Eastern Europe. The turmoil
there, he says, shows that even the most fossilized systems
can change. "Now that communism is dying," he says, "perhaps
we need a new middle way between the old Sweden and the new
Europe."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West German Unemployment
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- West Germany's unemployment
rate fell to 7.7% of the labor force in March from 8.2% in
February, the Federal Labor Office said.
   The decline in unemployment to 2,013,057 in March was
slightly steeper than expected. An AP-Dow Jones survey of
West German economists had called for March unemployment to
be 7.8%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Taiwan Trade Surplus
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TAIPEI, Taiwan -- Taiwan's trade surplus during the first
quarter totaled $1.8 billion, a 35% decrease from the like
period last year, the government announced.
   The government's Directorate General of Budget, Accounting
and Statistics said the March surplus was $770 million,
sliding 40% from March 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Management:
   When Firms Cut Out Middle Managers,
   Those at Top and Bottom Often Suffer
   ----
   By Carol Hymowitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   Organizational charts in American companies are becoming
as flat as pancakes.
   Streamlined bureaucracies may translate into higher
profits, more responsive customer service and faster product
development, but they are also forcing difficult adjustments
in how managers work. Many managers must adapt to fuzzier
lines of authority and greater emphasis on teamwork.
Low-level managers accustomed to carrying out orders suddenly
are asked to set strategy. For most, a leaner structure means
not only increased workloads but also diminished chances for
promotion, and the frustration that fosters.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The life of a manager is a lot more difficult now than 10
years ago," says Robert Kelley, a business professor at
Carnegie Mellon University. "As companies cut layers, they
haven't also cut the work, so managers are getting stretched
very thin overseeing more people and jobs."
   The old hierarchical corporation, with a pyramid-shaped
management structure, allowed managers to carefully sift
information before making decisions -- but they decided too
slowly. In today's global marketplace, what counts is speed.
Companies must be able to launch new products quickly and
alter existing ones for big customers. The only solution is
flatter companies in which information flows quickly from top
to bottom and back again, decisions come fast and teamwork is
the rule.
   Managers who survive a streamlining find themselves
working in a changed environment. Consider James Emshoff,
president of Citicorp's Diner's Club unit. Intent on better
serving customers, he slashed layers of management between
himself and first-line supervisors to four from eight, and
restructured many jobs.
   Now the credit-card company's biggest customers receive
customized products and services, and there's speedier
handling of customer complaints. But Mr. Emshoff oversees
eight managers, double the number he used to, while managers
beneath him also must work harder. Yet there are fewer
chances for promotions.
   "People can start worrying about where their careers are
going," Mr. Emshoff says. "You've got to convince them their
success won't be measured by how many times they move up the
pecking order."
   Instead of barking orders, managers must delegate
decisions to employees who may never before have been asked
for an opinion. They must also redefine which tasks are
critical. "It's become fashionable to reduce layers, but if
you don't take out the dumb work with the layers you get
nowhere," says Len Schlesinger, a Harvard Business School
professor.
   When Corning Inc. switched production at its Blacksburg,
Va., plant to auto-pollution-control parts from glass two
years ago, the facility's management went flat by design.
Instead of the four or five layers of management found at
Corning's other factories, the plant employs just seven
managers overseeing about 170 workers.
   Managers at the plant last year averaged 70 to 80 hours a
week on the job, without overtime pay. And that was after the
plant manager, Robert Hoover, did away with a lot of paper
work and other time-consuming tasks. For example, though all
managers at other Corning plants are required to write
quarterly reports, he's the only one who must at Blacksburg.
   "You've got to constantly ask, `Is this necessary, and is
it serving the customer?'" Mr. Hoover says. "Part of my role
is to keep finding something to whack out -- and to make sure
it doesn't grow back like a cancer."
   The plant is organized around five key jobs that all
hourly employees must learn -- and they spend one-fifth of
their time in training. The workers handle many of the jobs
previously done by foremen -- from scheduling overtime and
vacations to handling bottlenecks on the line and tracking
quality. And there's just one layer of managers separating
workers from Mr. Hoover. "There's a lot less formality, and
you can make changes happen on the floor very quickly," Mr.
Hoover says.
   With a leaner structure, however, comes increased stress:
Employees are more visible, and everybody has to be more
productive. "There aren't enough layers to protect average
performers," says Mr. Hoover.
   Not everyone can adjust to such changes. At Eastman Kodak
Co.'s apparatus division, which makes parts for Kodak
printers, copiers and film processors, the management team
was cut by 30% and layers slashed to three from seven.
   But some first-line supervisors, who suddenly had to set
goals and strategy for their products rather than just carry
out orders, "couldn't make it" despite a training course,
says Frank Zaffino, the division's vice president and general
manager. "They were used to being star technicians, not
communicators or leaders."
   Mr. Zaffino is convinced that peeling away management
layers has improved the bottom line. Productivity in the
division has jumped 25% in the past three years, with over
95% of orders now being handled within five days, up from
just 15% of orders in 1986.
   But he's had to relinquish his old policing role. When he
had only three people reporting directly to him, "I could
second-guess them a lot, and end-run them for information,"
he says. Now, overseeing double that number of managers, he
has to trust that they can perform and make decisions. "I can
no longer outmanage them on details," he says.
   Managers who can't say no will soon find themselves on
overload in pancake companies -- or simply unable to
function. "You've got to prioritize," says Cam Starrett, vice
president, personnel and administration, at Maxwell/Macmillan
Group.
   When her boss recently asked her to take on a new project,
she reminded him that her streamlined staff was already
embroiled in three large projects and there was no one to
bounce a fourth one to. He agreed that they couldn't take on
more.
   Since moving to Macmillan about a year ago, Ms. Starrett
has shrunk her staff to 29 from 40 and cut management layers
in half to three. In the old chain of command, supervisors
reported to an assistant manager who in turn reported to a
manager, chief manager, director and finally vice president.
Now the management team consists of Ms. Starrett, three
directors and a dozen or so managers.
   In the old hierarchy, "the boxes were very clear, and
anything that fell between the boxes ended up on the boss's
desk," Ms. Starrett says. "Everyone became very adept at
delegating up." She's tried to reverse that process,
delegating more decision making down the ranks and insisting
on teamwork.
   When the international vice president wanted her to help
set up retirement plans for Australian employees, Ms.
Starrett brought together compensation and benefits managers
to brainstorm and make recommendations. She also assigned one
of the managers to deal directly with the international vice
president.
   That approach, she says, produced "richer" strategic
thinking and a quick response. "But you need people who are
flexible and want to get involved, people who were frustrated
by the old boxes."
   Pancake companies also need managers who relish diversity.
As long as they were overseeing five or 10 people, managers
tended to surround themselves with like-minded people. But
with 50 or 100 subordinates, homogeneity is unlikely.
   Those who tend to communicate by memo -- and who in the
past might have hired subordinates who do the same -- are apt
to find themselves overseeing people who prefer to talk
things out. "If they don't realize that they're managing a
different breed, they won't be able to make themselves
understood," says Don Sayenga, a consultant and former
Bethlehem Steel Corp. executive. He calls this particular
clash "the audio-visual dilemma."
   Moreover, even as managers delegate more, they often must
reacquaint themselves with everyday detail. When Dale Ward
took over as chief executive of National Intergroup Inc.'s
Ben Franklin retail chain, he cut a layer of senior vice
presidents, giving more autonomy to regional vice presidents.
He also got more involved in day-to-day operations --
dropping in at meetings to suggest marketing strategies, for
example, and spending more time with suppliers than his
predecessor.
   In the past, he says, managers "didn't dare trust the
chief executive with any problems. But if you're cutting
staff, you've got to be more involved in everyday matters.
You don't want to do your subordinates' jobs, but you have to
show them you know how to sweep the floor."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chicago Exchanges
   Will Raise Margins
   On Index Futures
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago
Board of Trade, citing volatility in foreign stock markets,
raised margin requirements for their stock-index-futures
contracts, effective Monday.
   A Merc spokesman said it was the first time the exchange
was raising margins in response to movements in foreign
markets rather than volatility in one of its own contracts.
Sharp price declines in the Tokyo stock market in recent
weeks have led some investors to fear that a "spillover
effect" may eventually be felt in U.S. markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Futures margins are good-faith deposits required of
traders to ensure they can honor their trading obligations in
the face of anticipated day-to-day volatility in the price of
a particular contract. When daily price moves become more
volatile, margins typically are raised to account for the
increased risk.
   The futures industry has been attacked by certain critics
for its relatively low margin levels compared with the stock
market, where margins are 50% of a stock's value. A margin
payment in the stock market is an actual downpayment toward
the purchase of a stock, rather than a good-faith deposit. In
both markets, margin money represents the amount of upfront
cash a speculator needs to bet on the near-term direction of
stock or futures prices.
   The Merc, whose Standard &amp; Poor's 500 stock-index-futures
contract accounts for more than 75% of all
stock-index-futures trading, raised margins for speculators
trading S&amp;P 500 futures to $20,000 a contract, or nearly 12%
of the contract's face value. The previous speculative margin
had been set at $17,500, or slightly more than 10% of the
contract value.
   Trading in the Board of Trade's Major Market index
accounts for a much smaller share of stock-index-futures
trading volume. That exchange raised speculative margins
effective Monday to $20,000 a contract, or nearly 15% of
contact value, from $13,000, or 9.5% of the contract value.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Thorn EMI PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   U.THN WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   THORN EMI PLC (London) -- James Fifield was named an
executive director of this British electronics company. Mr.
Fifield is president and chief executive officer of EMI Music
Worldwide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   James Capel Corporate Finance Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS U.CJC
</CO>
<LP>
   JAMES CAPEL CORPORATE FINANCE Ltd. (London) -- Sir Raymond
Lygo was named a non-executive director of the corporate
finance division. Sir Raymond recently retired as chief
executive officer of British Aerospace PLC.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The U.S. Takes the Wrong Immigrants
   ----
   By George J. Borjas
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<LP>
   Just as countries compete in a world-wide market where
goods and services are exchanged, they also compete in the
market for people. The U.S. accepted about 600,000 legal
immigrants annually during the 1980s, not including the 2.5
million persons who applied for amnesty under the provisions
of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act. Including
illegals, more immigrants were admitted during the 1980s than
in any other decade in American history.
   By presenting a specific set of economic opportunities,
and by pursuing an immigration policy that prevents the entry
of some persons but encourages the entry of others, the U.S.
makes a particular type of offer in the "immigration market."
The evidence is clear that the American offer is becoming
progressively less attractive to the world's most talented
people.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since the immigration reforms of 1965, U.S. immigration
law has encouraged family reunification and discouraged the
arrival of skilled immigrants: 75% of legal immigrants in
1987 were granted entry because they were related to an
American citizen or resident, while only 4% were admitted
because they possessed useful skills. As a result, the skills
of immigrants entering the U.S. have declined sharply over
the past few decades relative to the skills of natives. Newly
arrived immigrants admitted in the late 1950s had about half
a year more schooling than natives did and earned about 8%
less per hour. Immigrants admitted in the late 1970s had 0.7
fewer years of schooling and earned about 17% less than
natives.
   The U.S. competes for immigrants with several other
countries, but its main rivals are Australia and Canada.
Among them, these three countries account for two-thirds of
the world's legal immigration. But since 1965, Australia and
Canada have succeeded better in drawing the most talented
immigrants. While the predicted lifetime earnings -- the best
indicator of the value of the technical and intellectual
skills that immigrants bring with them -- of the immigrants
who entered the U.S.in the late 1970s were 30% lower than
those of American natives, immigrants to Canada who arrived
in Canada during that period are projected to earn only 13%
less than Canadian natives. Late 1970s immigrants to
Australia will likely earn about the same as Australian
natives.
   By contrast, those immigrants who arrived in the U.S. in
the early 1960s will have lifetime earnings just 7% below
those of natives -- a figure exactly to the performance of
contemporary immigrants to Australia and only very slightly
worse than the 3% less that early 1960s immigrants to Canada
will earn.
   The flagging performance of immigrants to the U.S. is due
in part to the changes in their national origins. The
national origin groups that dominate the immigrant flow today
do relatively less well in the labor market than the groups
that dominated earlier flows. For instance, the predicted
lifetime earnings of immigrants from Canada, Germany or
Britain are about 20% higher than those of natives;
immigrants from India or Korea earn about 7% less than
natives; and immigrants from the Dominican Republic, Jamaica
or Mexico earn 30% to 40% less than natives.
   One ready explanation for these disparities is that the
skills of workers originating in advanced, industrialized
economies are more easily transferable to the U.S. labor
market than are the skills of persons from less developed
countries. But a subtler cause is at work too: It is the most
skilled workers who wish to leave such countries as Sweden
and Britain.
   Because of the wage structure and redistributive income
policies in the European social democracies, the income gap
between the highly skilled and the less skilled is small.
Highly skilled workers are not well rewarded and the less
skilled are protected from poor labor market outcomes. This
creates an incentive for those highly skilled people to
emigrate. In poor countries, on the other hand, the wage gap
tends to be very large, and it is the less skilled who have
the most incentive to leave.
   The problem with unskilled immigrants is not, as is often
supposed, that they reduce the living standards of native
workers. A 10% increase in the number of immigrants decreases
the average native wage by at most two-tenths of 1%, and has
little effect on the unemployment rate of practically all
native groups, including the black poor.
   In fact, even a large and unexpected increase in the
supply of immigrants -- such as the arrival of 125,000 Cubans
into the Miami area during the 1980 Mariel boatlift -- does
little harm to native earnings and employment. The trend in
the wages and unemployment rates of both black and white
natives in Miami over the 1979-1985 period differs little
from the trends observed in a number of comparable cities,
none of which received anything like the Miami influx.
   But though unskilled immigration doesn't deprive natives
of jobs or wages, it does have other costs. The poverty rate
of newly arrived immigrants admitted in the late 1960s was
five percentage points higher than that of natives, while the
poverty rate of immigrants admitted in the late 1970s was 18
percentage points higher. Similarly, immigrant households
admitted in the late 1970s are about two percentage points
likelier to receive public assistance than immigrants who
arrived in the early 1960s.
   The differences in poverty and welfare recipiency rates
among national origin groups are huge. Only 7% or 8% of the
immigrants from Britain or Germany are living below the
poverty line, but 14% of Koreans, 26% of Mexicans, and 34% of
immigrants from the Dominican Republic are. The native
poverty rate is 12%. Similarly, only 5% of German and British
households are on welfare, but 10% of Filipino households,
17% of Cuban households and 26% of Dominican households
receive public assistance. Eight percent of native households
live on welfare.
   The shift toward a more unskilled immigrant flow increases
the burden of income transfer programs. There really is a
fundamental conflict between the welfare state and
immigration. Before welfare benefits became widely available
in the 1960s, prospective immigrants to the U.S. would make
their decision based on a comparison of the economic
opportunities available to them here and in their country of
origin. Now they compare welfare opportunities too. Without
welfare, the U.S. could open its borders entirely, knowing
that those who were needed would stay, while those who
weren't would probably leave.
   National income and tax revenues are substantially lower
than they would have been if the U.S. had attracted more
skilled immigrants. If the people who immigrated in the late
1970s had been as skilled as those who came in the early
1960s, national income would be at least $6 billion higher
and tax revenues would have increased by $1.5 billion per
year.
   In both Canada and Australia, visas are now allocated
through a point system, which grades visa applicants in terms
of educational attainment, age and occupational background.
The presence of relatives in the country is only one factor
among many. Canada and Australia also "sell" visas to persons
who have sufficient financial resources to open businesses
and create employment opportunities for natives. But it may
well be, for instance, that the skilled persons who choose
Australia or Canada would have preferred the more favorable
tax policies or labor market conditions provided by the U.S.
If American law were different, they might have come here
instead.
   Of course, a visa allocation system based on the
applicant's ability to pay discriminates against people who
lack these financial resources. Similarly, a point system
discriminates against people who lack the favored skill
characteristics. Any visa allocation system, however, is
bound to lead to inequities, and the inequities that would be
created by a merit-oriented immigration policy would be no
more egregious than those associated with present or previous
immigration policies. Throughout the first half of the
century, the nationalorigins quota system flatly prohibited
the entry of Asians; current policy prevents the entry of
most persons who do not have relatives in the U.S.
   Immigration policy is inherently discriminatory. It
selectively picks and chooses from the many applicants. It
may stress national origin, or skills, or financial
resources, or family ties, or any combination of
characteristics that Americans deem economically and
politically desirable, and consistent with the country's
values and beliefs. Because there are only a limited number
of visas, the policy has to restrict or prohibit the entry of
many classes of persons. Inevitably, difficult choices must
be made.
   ---
   Mr. Borjas, a professor of economics at the University of
California, Santa Barbara, is the author of "Friends or
Strangers: The Impact of Immigrants on the U.S. Economy,"
(Basic, 1990).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Buffaloed in Buffalo
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<IN>
TRANSPORTATION, TRUCK AND SHIP LINES, RAILROADS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   The people of Buffalo, N.Y., are bewildered. They woke up
Monday to discover that their modern mass-transit system was
dead in its tracks -- flat broke, shut down. There is a
lesson here for every significant city in America.
   Only five years ago, Buffalo opened a $600 million subway
paid for almost entirely by federal and state dollars. The
easy lure of federal grants has prompted dozens of cities
such as Buffalo to build transit systems they can't afford to
maintain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The transit authority shut down the system in what Mayor
James Griffin called a form of "brinksmanship" to force
higher taxes. The authority turned down $2 million in stopgap
funding and an offer from County Executive Dennis Gorski to
turn over management to a private firm. After a two-day
shutdown, county officials cried uncle and imposed a real
estate sales tax to support the system. Its long-term future,
however, is dim.
   Washington helped create Buffalo's mass-transit crisis
when in the 1970s it began paying for 80% of the cost of new
transit projects and up to half the cost of operating
budgets. Combined with state funding, this made new systems
"free" to cities. They began to mortgage their municipal
futures by pushing white-elephant projects no city would have
contemplated building with local tax money. Miami's train
system ended up attracting 15% of the number of projected
passengers; Buffalo's only a third. When federal subsidies
declined in the 1980s, both cities were trapped into
operating a network of bus lines that fed into truncated rail
lines that no one wanted to use.
   Mass transit today is still based on the theory that most
commutes are from suburbs into downtown business districts.
But the traditional suburb-to-center-city commute is now
third in size among traffic flows. Twice as many people now
commute from suburb to suburb.
   Over 180,000 people now work in the transit-starved New
Jersey Meadowlands, across the river from New York City, yet
local commuter services still operate on the assumption that
people will always work in Manhattan. Traditional public
transit can't hope to keep up with this dynamic growth and
movement of jobs. In Buffalo, for instance, the subway serves
neither the football stadium nor the main campus of the state
university, which is the area's largest employer.
   Still, Congress persists in funding projects that rely on
discredited transit models. Just last week, the House
approved $2 billion in federal funding to extend Washington,
D.C.'s Metro subway. Lawmakers justified rolling this pork
barrel further by calling the system "America's Subway,"
though it's unclear how much a tourist from Des Moines will
use the new suburban lines. They also won't help many
commuters. More people work at Tysons Corner in suburban
Virginia than in downtown Denver, yet no Metro station is
planned there. Metro has so far cost $7 billion just to
build.
   There are alternatives to the present transit mess. Denver
has contracted out many bus routes to private firms, allowing
route changes politicians had long blocked. Mexican immigrant
Alfredo Santos is suing the city of Houston to allow him to
use jitneys to transport poor people who are badly served by
local bus routes. Other cities have deregulated taxis, making
them affordable for short trips. Private toll roads that
allow commuters to use pre-paid, bar-coded stickers to speed
through collection points are being built in Texas,
California and Virginia.
   It's time to admit that conventional theories of mass
transit no longer fit the fast-changing American economy. No
bureaucrat can guess where new jobs and economic growth will
create transit needs. Any attempt to do so will, as in
Buffalo, lead to systems that are inflexible, outdated the
day they open, and certain to keep the local community on a
financial treadmill that never ends.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Sotheby's Art Auction Flop Raises Question
   Whether Japanese Collectors Are Cutting Back
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   BID
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The stock of Sotheby's Holdings Inc. took a
hit on news that the firm's auction of Impressionist and
modern paintings in London Tuesday night flopped. In more
than triple the usual volume, Sotheby's stock slid 1 1/4, or
6%, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, to 21 3/8.
   The issue for investors is whether the auction, which took
in $63 million, well below Sotheby's pre-sale estimate of $75
million to $99 million, was an aberration. Was it, as
Sotheby's officials and supporters maintain, a minor-league
sale that lacked a masterpiece and included some ho-hum
paintings? Or was it the first sign that the Japanese
collectors who have been major players in the art market are
retreating because of the plunge in the Tokyo stock market?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The sale was a midseason, minor" auction, said Michael
Ainslie, chairman of the firm, from London. Some of the
artworks up for bid were not "fresh to the market," and
others may have had unrealistically high price estimates.
About $35 million of the total spent at the auction came from
Japanese bidders, including the $6.1 million for a Marc
Chagall painting that broke the artist's record, said Mr.
Ainslie.
   A Monday-evening London auction by Sotheby's counterpart,
London-based Christie's International PLC, had similar dim
results. The sales total also came in below the lowest
pre-sale estimate and 21% of the artworks, by dollar value,
didn't sell. However, some of the most expensive paintings at
both auctions were purchased by Japanese collectors. Said Mr.
Ainslie, the Japanese "are by no means out of the market."
   Neither are some of the institutional players in Sotheby's
stock. Michael Gaffney of Security Pacific Investment
Managers Inc. of Los Angeles, which has an undisclosed
position in the stock, said he isn't selling as the result of
"one bad auction."
   But a Wall Street bearish on art has been battering
Sotheby's shares lately; in early March, the stock was
trading at almost four above its current level. Its all-time
high was $37, reached Oct. 19.
   Ken Heebner of Capital Growth Management, which is
affiliated with Loomis Sayles, said he sold more than 660,000
shares of Sotheby earlier this year -- not because he thought
the art boom had ended, but because he expects it to end "at
some point" and didn't want to try to time the bust.
   Is the bloom off the art boom? Not yet, say some art
dealers, who blame the failure of the Sotheby's sale on the
lack of exciting merchandise and a softening in demand for
"second" and "third" tier Impressionist works that sell for a
mere $1 million or so. Yet at another Sotheby's auction
yesterday in London, of Russian avant-garde paintings from
the famed Costakis collection, 76% of the works, by dollar
value, didn't sell.
   But analysts who had been bullish on Sotheby's stock
through its long run-up in 1988 and 1989 aren't changing
their tune. They say Sotheby's, which has no debt and now
trades at less than 10 times estimated 1990 earnings, remains
a good buy. Moreover, Sotheby's is broadening its business
beyond the art market with a controversial plan to build a
tower of luxury condominium apartments atop its Manhattan
auction headquarters.
   Salomon Brothers analyst Harvey Katz is maintaining his
earnings estimates of $2.25 a share this year -- and
recommends buying the stock on weakness. Mr. Katz bases his
continued bullishness on three factors: Sotheby's
first-quarter auction totals were sharply above last year's
levels; Japanese buying is "visible and strong," and some
artworks up for auction at Sotheby's blockbuster sales in May
are of exceptional quality.
   "Wall Street's perception is that the art market is one
market, and one bad sale will panic the whole world," said
Fred Wintzer of Alex. Brown &amp; Sons, who reaffirmed his buy
recommendation yesterday. But the art boom, and Sotheby's
profits, are far more broadly based than the weakening
Impressionist sector, he says.
   But even its boosters agree that there may be booby traps
on Sotheby's balance sheet, perhaps most prominently its
policy of guaranteeing a minimum take to certain consigners
of major art collections, and its willingness to grant loans
using art as collateral. Sotheby's loan in 1987 of $25
million to Australian businessman Alan Bond looked dicey
until he recently paid it off.
   Will the perception that art is less of a sure-fire
investment after this week's sales cause buyers to step back
from the plate at the Sotheby's May sales? Those major
auctions usually account for a sizable chunk of its annual
revenue.
   "That's the billion-dollar question," said Salomon's Mr.
Katz. "But I don't think you can ring the bell and say it's
over yet."
   ---
   Sotheby's Holdings
   (NYSE; Symbol: BID)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Art auctioneer
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Revenue: $444.9 million
   Net income: $112.7 million; or $1.96 a share
                                                                                                       

   Fourth quarter, Dec. 31, 1989:
   Per-share earnings: $1.07 vs. 56 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 175,165 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 50 million
                                                                                                       

   NOTE: All share figures are adjusted to reflect a
two-for-one stock split paid July 17, 1989
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Realty Refund Trust
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS RRF
</CO>
<LP>
   REALTY REFUND TRUST (Cleveland) -- Anthony J. Martino,
executive vice president of Stouffer Corp. and senior vice
president, finance, and treasurer of Nestle Enterprises Inc.,
was elected a trustee of this real estate investment trust,
increasing the board to eight members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Job-Bias Measure Aimed at Overturning
   High Court Decisions Clears Senate Unit
   ----
   By John E. Yang
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Labor Committee approved
comprehensive legislation aimed at overturning the effect of
several Supreme Court decisions handed down last year that
made job bias harder to prove.
   GOP Sens. David Durenberger of Minnesota and James
Jeffords of Vermont joined the panel's nine Democrats to pass
the measure on an 11-5 vote after rejecting attempts by Sen.
Orrin Hatch (R., Utah) to weaken it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sen. Hatch, the panel's ranking GOP member, indicated he
would offer other amendments when the bill is considered by
the full Senate, probably next month. A similar bill is
pending in the House.
   "It is no mere overturning of a few Supreme Court
decisions," Sen. Hatch said. "It is, in my view, a radical
reworking of our nation's basic employment
anti-discrimination law."
   The measure, the top legislative priority of civil-rights
groups this year, is opposed by the Bush administration and
conservative policy groups, who say it would result in hiring
quotas and reverse discrimination.
   Lawmakers voted, 12-4, to defeat Mr. Hatch's attempt to
exempt health and safety rules from a provision that would
force employers to justify employment practices shown to have
a discriminatory impact. Committee Chairman Edward Kennedy
(D., Mass.) charged that the change would give employers
"carte blanche to adopt practices that have kept women and
minorities from fully participating under the guise of health
and safety."
   The committee also rejected, 11-5, a Hatch amendment that
would have expanded the circumstances under which co-workers
could challenge court-approved affirmative-action plans
agreed upon by employers and minority or women employees.
   Last year, Mr. Bush said legislation wasn't necessary to
respond to the court's decisions. But after a coalition of
Democrats and moderate Republicans introduced legislation in
February, the Justice Department prepared a more modest
measure that would address some of the same concerns.
   The lawmakers' bill has been crafted to avoid addressing a
contentious high court ruling that barred the use of racial
quotas in state and local government affirmative-action
programs.
   The measure approved by the committee would:
   -- Specify that an 1866 civil-rights law, giving all
citizens equal rights to make contracts, covers lawsuits
alleging racial harassment on the job.
   -- Allow workers to challenge alleged discriminatory
seniority plans when those plans affect them, rather than
when they are adopted.
   -- Force employers to justify employment practices shown
to have a discriminatory impact.
   -- Protect court-approved affirmative-action plans agreed
upon by employers and minority or women employees by
permitting only under certain circumstances lawsuits by
co-workers claiming reverse discrimination.
   -- Make clear that it is illegal to make any employment
decisions based on race, ethnicity, gender or religion.
   -- Assure victims of intentional bias the right to seek
monetary damages.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chicago Exchange Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Futures contracts on the one-month London
Interbank Offer Rate (Libor) begin trading today on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
   The contract is designed to help banks and other
institutions better manage short-term interest rate risks.
Like the Merc's three-month Eurodollar futures contract, the
Libor contract will be cash settled. The last trading day
will be two London business days preceding the third
Wednesday of the contract month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Yen Climbs Against Dollar as Dealers
   Take Cautious Steps Before G-7 Meeting
   ----
   By Randolph Walerius
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The yen got a boost from currency dealers
covering short positions amid suspicion that the Group of
Seven industrial nations is laying a trap for those who dare
take positions against the Japanese currency.
   Though most dealers said they doubted the G-7 will agree
to intervene at its talks Saturday, some speculated that the
group is trying to lull them into complacency with comments
suggesting intervention is unlikely. They say the G-7 might
be planning to surprise them next week with heavy dollar
sales for yen. G-7 nations include the U.S., Japan, Britain,
West Germany, France, Italy and Canada.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In other dealings, the dollar was mixed, with trading
confined within a narrow range. In late afternoon New York
trading, the dollar was at 1.6995 marks, up from 1.6979
marks, and at 158.95 yen, down from 159.79 yen late Tuesday.
Sterling was at $1.6401, up from $1.6357.
   In Tokyo early Thursday, the dollar was trading at 158.18
yen, down from the opening price of 158.32 yen and down from
Wednesday's Tokyo close of 158.90 yen. Meanwhile, the U.S.
currency was trading at around 1.6985 marks, up from the
opening quote of 1.6980 marks and up from Wednesday's Tokyo
close of 1.6971 marks.
   Comments by Japanese Finance Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto
overnight were a green light for traders to sell yen, but
they didn't, said Albert Soria, first vice president and
foreign-exchange manager at Kansallis Osake Pankki in New
York.
   Mr. Hashimoto was reported as saying that capital flowing
out of Japan wasn't the cause of the yen's current weakness
and that he wasn't considering regulating such capital flows.
He also said the G-7 wouldn't focus only on exchange rates at
the meeting Saturday.
   Many observers blame the yen's decline on the heavy flow
of Japanese capital abroad for investment use. Some also
wonder why Mr. Hashimoto seems to be trying to deflect
attention from any discussion of exchange rates Saturday.
   Mr. Soria said there was a certain amount of skepticism
about the comments. On the surface, it looks as if nothing
will come out of the meeting, but the market is apprehensive
about selling the yen, he said, adding: "Is he setting us
up?"
   But Baruch Deutsch, a dealer at Shearson Lehman Hutton
Inc., in New York, said the dollar is still close to its
recent high at around 160 yen, an indication that most
traders don't expect intervention.
   Mr. Deutsch, who predicted an accord on coordinated dollar
sales would emerge from the meeting, said the greenback is
contained more by the difficulty of breaking the
psychologically important 160-yen level. Trade talks between
the U.S. and Japan seem to be going well, he said. The U.S.
will reward the Japanese for their trade concessions and for
Japan's previous help in supporting U.S. policy on the
dollar, he said.
   In Tokyo, Yoichi Itoh, chief corporate-service officer
with Sumitomo Trust &amp; Banking, said, "I think the U.S. might
judge that higher Japanese interest rates might force U.S.
interest rates up, and that some kind of currency stability
will be necessary to stop Japanese interest rates from rising
further." Higher Japanese interest rates are generally
thought of as another way to lift the yen because they would
make yen-denominated investments relatively more attractive.
But when the Bank of Japan raised its discount rate to 5.25%
from 4.25% two weeks ago, the yen plunged, largely because
the move was widely expected and discounted.
   Sterling recovered another piece of ground that was lost
in a sharp tumble when trading opened in the Far East Monday.
Mr. Soria said the pound was benefiting from high yields
available in Britain. Everyone went short sterling after the
violence in Britain during the weekend, he said, adding that
the short-covering is still evident.
   Linda McLaughlin, vice president at Chemical Bank in New
York, said traders are trying to fill in the gaps between
$1.6455, where sterling was at late Friday in New York, and
around $1.6250, the level it fell to shortly after the
opening in New Zealand Monday.
   The market was talking about the pound going to $1.66
before the weekend violence, she said. Nobody knows what to
do or where sterling is headed until the market fills in the
big gap by moving the pound up to around $1.6450, she said.
Once that is filled in, there will be a basis from which to
move, said Ms. McLaughlin.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $377.10 an ounce, up $1.80. Estimated
volume was a light 2.4 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Thursday, gold didn't trade due to a public
holiday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Braintree Savings Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BTSB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BRAINTREE SAVINGS BANK (Braintree, Mass.) -- Donald C.
Olson, chief operating officer of this savings bank, was
named to the additional post of president. Mr. Olson, 46
years old, succeeds Winthrop Sargent IV, 55, who continues as
chairman and chief executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Altos Computer Systems
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ALTO WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ALTOS COMPUTER SYSTEMS (San Jose, Calif.) -- Ronald
Conway, 39 years old, formerly chief operating officer, was
named president of this computer maker, succeeding David
Jackson, who remains chief executive officer and chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trades in Issue Suspended
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   SCII
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission
suspended trading in Southland Communications Inc. for 10
days, beginning yesterday, because of questions about control
of the company and recent market activity.
   The agency said it stopped trading in the Santa Ana,
Calif., radio-paging company because of "a possible
undisclosed change in control." Moreover, the SEC said it had
questions about the identity of the owners of Southland's
common and preferred shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Santa Ana, Calif., company officials weren't available
to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Bill Urges
   A Single Agency
   To Oversee Markets
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Two House members unveiled a bill to merge
stock and futures regulation into a single agency, hoping to
replace what they called "an archaic way of regulating
financial instruments."
   The legislation, introduced by Reps. Dan Glickman (D.,
Kan.) and Dennis Eckart (D., Ohio), is the most sweeping
proposal in the debate over who should supervise financial
futures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The congressmen said they would need strong Bush
administration support to move this bill through. "This
depends on what the administration decides to do," said Mr.
Glickman, a member of the Agriculture Committee. The Treasury
Department has supported a merger as one of several solutions
to what it calls the "regulatory bifurcation."
   The Commodity Futures Trading Commission currently
monitors financial futures, as well as the rest of the
futures industry. But the structure has come under attack
from within the Bush administration, including the Securities
and Exchange Commission, which regulates the stock and
options markets, for creating stock-market volatility and
hindering enforcement efforts.
   Until now, most discussion about the regulatory split has
focused on moving the monitoring of stock-index futures to
the SEC. Stock-index futures, which are controversial because
they can be used in program-trading strategies, allow
investors to bet on the direction of a basket of stocks
without buying the actual securities.
   The Glickman-Eckart bill would create a single agency,
called the Markets and Trading Commission, that would oversee
most of the U.S. financial markets. The congressmen contend
that merging the agencies could avoid one pitfall that some
have feared, the weakening of the CFTC, which could occur if
oversight of index futures were shifted to the SEC.
   The agency also would control stock margins, which are
currently set by the Federal Reserve Board. Futures margins
would remain in the hands of the commodities exchanges, but a
floor would be set. Margins are the good-faith deposits
required for trades.
   Chicago Board of Trade President Thomas Donovan has called
the merger proposal "worth studying" and said that it's
preferable to giving the SEC regulatory control over index
futures. Chicago Mercantile Exchange officials have echoed
Mr. Donovan's remarks.
   A CFTC spokesman immediately attacked the bill, arguing
that "we fail to see any need for merging the two agencies."
   SEC Chairman Richard Breeden said the agency "wouldn't
oppose the merger approach if that's the way Congress
determines to deal with the problem of split jurisdiction."
But he added that "a merger, while desirable from many
perspectives, isn't absolutely necessary to solve the worst
problems" of the regulatory division.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Two Publishers
   Of Cable Magazines
   Plan a Merger
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- TVSM Inc., a publisher of cable-television
magazines, said it will merge with Crosby Vandenburgh Group,
also a major publisher of cable magazines.
   The merger of the two closely held companies will create
the country's largest publisher of magazines created
primarily for cable system operators and their subscribers.
As cable's penetration of U.S. television households
continues to grow, the cable magazines will be stiff
competition for established publications, such as News
Corp.'s TV Guide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Boston-based Crosby Vandenburgh will merge its Cable
Publications Inc. division, which publishes the monthly
publication TV Entertainment, with TVSM, which publishes the
Cable Guide. The combined company will retain the TVSM name
and will continue to be run by Mark Edmiston, chairman of the
three-year-old TVSM.
   Terms of the merger weren't disclosed, but sources close
to the negotiation said investors in Crosby Vandenburgh were
offered stock in TVSM. Not involved in the merger is Custom
Magazines Inc., a division of Crosby Vandenburgh and
publisher of single-sponsor magazines.
   The merger was initiated by Frederick Iseman, a principal
of Hambro International Venture Fund, one of the investors in
Crosby Vandenburgh. "With 12 million circulation this makes
TVSM by far the dominant factor in cable publications," said
Mr. Iseman.
   Eventually it's expected TVSM will combine the two
magazines and publish it as one title on a weekly basis.
Already, TVSM is testing a weekly cable guide called TV Times
in San Diego and Huntington Beach, Calif., that tells
customers only what their cable system offers. TVSM said it
will launch this week a TV Time edition in Phoenix, Ariz. For
now, however, the magazines will be published separately.
   The merger is considered particularly attractive because
it gives TVSM a circulation of 12 million, all of it
unduplicated. Crosby Vandenburgh's TV Entertainment has a
circulation of about 4.5 million and is sent to subscribers
to cable systems owned by Tele-Communications Inc. TVSM's
Cable Guide has a circulation of about 7.5 million spread
among several major cable systems operators.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
REAL ESTATE, REITS, LAND DEVELOPMENT (REL)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Wednesday, April 4, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/2% high, 8 3/16% low, 8 1/2% near
closing bid, 8 1/2% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.275% 30 to 44 days; 8.25% 45 to 59 days;
8.20% 60 to 89 days; 8.15% 90 to 119 days; 8.10% 120 to 149
days; 8.05% 150 to 179 days; 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.35%
30 days; 8.35% 60 days; 8.30% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.77% one month; 7.83% two
months; 7.86% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.20% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.35% one month; 8.43% three months;
8.60% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.20% 30 days; 8.16% 60 days; 8.14%
90 days; 8.14% 120 days; 8.14% 150 days; 8.13% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 7/16% to 8 5/16% one month; 8
1/2% to 8 3/8% two months; 8 9/16% to 8 7/16% three months; 8
5/8% to 8 1/2% four months; 8 11/16% to 8 9/ 16% five months;
8 11/16% to 8 9/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 7/16% one month;
8 9/16% three months; 8 3/4% six months; 9% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.25%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
6.25%; Switzerland 11.25%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, April 2, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.83% 13 weeks; 7.81% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.32%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.19%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 9%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable
rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.62%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Carolco Pictures Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CRC TVOPZ
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Carolco Pictures Inc., an entertainment
concern, said that 94% of the units of Vista Organization
Partnership Limited Partnership were tendered under Carolco's
exchange offer.
   Carolco offered $2.45 in Carolco units for each Vista
partnership unit. Each Carolco unit consists of a $1,000 face
amount 14% senior note due 1993 and 30 Carolco warrants for
common stock. Each warrant entitles its holder to purchase
one Carolco common share at $11.25 until June 1, 1993.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Vista is an inactive movie financing concern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Progress in Work:
   Ventures in Hungary
   Test Theory That West
   Can Uplift East Bloc
   ---
   Levi Strauss Jeans Factory
   Offers Efficient Contrast
   To Sluggish State Plant
   ---
   A `Unique' Chance to Change
   ----
   By Philip Revzin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   KISKUNHALAS, Hungary -- A thin brick wall dividing a big
factory building still separates East from West in this
light-industrial town near Hungary's border with Yugoslavia.
   On one side of the building, two-thirds of state-owned
Texcoop's obsolete knitting machines sit idle for lack of
orders. The rest churn out frumpy 100%-acrylic sweaters for
the Soviet Union. The plant, greasy and gloomy, has lost
money ever since it opened.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On the other side of the building, a freshly scrubbed,
brightly lit Levi Strauss factory hums to piped-in jazz.
Dozens of women hunch over new American sewing machines and
swiftly affix pockets, sew up inseams and attach zippers.
Little red pennants adorn the machines of those who sew 110%
of their targets; yellow ones indicate 120%. Nearly everybody
has a pennant. The women, all of whom worked for Texcoop
until last year, now earn more than twice as much money.
   The plant was profitable from Day One. Levi earned back
its total investment in less than a year.
   Eastern Europe still has far more factories like Texcoop's
than like Levi's, but every day more ventures bringing
Western management, cash and free-market fervor are being
planned. Not only will they make jeans, light bulbs and
bicycles, but, economists say, the competition they create
will eventually force state companies to either shape up,
sell out or close.
   "These investments are the future of these companies and
the future of Hungary," asserts George Varga, a General
Electric Co. executive who recently took charge of Tungsram
Co., a Hungarian light-bulb maker now controlled by GE.
   The test of this theory is furthest along in Hungary, the
first East bloc country to allow joint ventures on realistic
terms with the West, the first to allow its people to own
private property, the first to establish an embryonic stock
exchange. Free elections, to be completed Sunday, will give
Hungary a legitimate, if fragmented, government dedicated to
the free market, and the country even belongs to the
International Monetary Fund now. "The betting is that Hungary
will write the book on how to make the transition" from a
centrally planned system, says Brian O'Connor, an IBM
executive acting as an adviser to the U.S. Embassy in
Budapest.
   Hungary's main assets are its relative prosperity, its
long ties to the West through Austria, its prewar memory of
competitive pricing and its surviving remnants of a vibrant
capitalist society.
   Although wages are low, food is plentiful; the lines in
Budapest aren't at grocery stores, but at McDonald's, at the
nearby Adidas sporting-goods shop and at Levi's downtown
jeans store. Joint ventures with the West have been legal
here since 1972, though changes in the law didn't make them
attractive until 1988. Politics also began opening up early;
Hungary's decision to scrap its barbed-wire border with
Austria last year led indirectly to the crumbling of the
Berlin Wall.
   But Hungary has major liabilities, too. Among them are a
$20 billion foreign debt, an unstable political structure
(nearly 50 parties ran in the elections, and none will get a
majority) and inflation of 22% a year and rising. Unlike
Poland, the other East Europe country that's out front in
economic reform, Hungary hasn't any well-established
opposition force capable of implementing a tough austerity
program. No political party has the standing or the courage
to advocate scrapping of the state system. So a step-by-step
approach, however unsatisfactory, will continue.
   "People haven't yet seen tangible economic results," says
Zsigmond Jarai, Hungary's deputy finance minister. "There's a
pervasive pessimism, which we must change to optimism. I
don't really understand it; for the first time, we're
completely free to make decisions, and we have real
possibilities."
   Some of those possibilities are unnerving, after 45 years
of a closed system that, however flawed, gave everybody at
least the semblance of a job. More than 90% of Hungary's
economy is state-owned, and, officials estimate, as many as
30% of the employees in state industries are superfluous.
Large-scale privatizing could cause massive unemployment.
Freeing more of the subsidized prices would make inflation
even worse. A rush of foreign investment, with a big dose of
imported machinery, could batter Hungary's balance of
payments and spur further price increases.
   Ferenc Bartha, the president of the National Bank of
Hungary, sees just such a rush, with $350 million of foreign
investment this year and $500 million to $600 million next
year. Though Hungary can absorb such investment only with
difficulty, he sees "a unique historical opportunity for
Hungary to transform our economy. We'd be foolish to miss
it."
   Nonetheless, many Hungarians liken selling off state
companies to selling off the family silver, even though the
estimated $1 billion in foreign investment here so far is
less than 2% of Hungary's total assets. "It'd be bad to sell
out the whole country to foreign capital because there's a
short-term crisis," says Judit Vasarhelyi, who helps run the
Soros Foundation at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences.
   For instance, the state, which nationalized her uncle's
porcelain factory in 1945, recently sold it to a U.S.
company. "What does reprivatization mean?" she asks. "If it's
national property, shouldn't I have a say in it?" Many
Hungarians were also angered at the sale of a state hotel
group to Swedish interests despite apparently higher bids;
the deal is under review. Fresh controversy erupted this week
when Axel Springer Verlag AG was given control of four
Hungarian newspapers by their managements; the West German
company apparently paid nothing for them.
   Last year, there were 900 joint-venture deals, up from one
in 1981, and officials expect more than 2,000 to be signed
this year. So far, the biggest have involved the U.S.: GE
paid $150 million for 50.1% of Tungsram. General Motors Corp.
says it will invest up to $300 million in a joint venture to
make engines and perhaps vehicles here. Guardian Industries
is spending $110 million in a joint venture to convert an
obsolete glass plant.
   Schwinn Bicycle Co. is making bikes in a joint venture in
a small part of the mammoth Csepel heavy-industry complex
just south of downtown Budapest. Schwinn-Csepel's 450
employees must wear a badge adorned with American and
Hungarian flags; they follow different work rules and earn
25% more than the tens of thousands of state employees all
around them.
   The attractions for foreign investors: Wages are less than
a third of those in the West. Buying more than a 20% equity
stake in a joint venture can exempt the Western company from
taxes for up to five years. Hungarian exports now get
preferential status in both the U.S. and European Community,
and Hungary is a short truck haul from Austria on the west
and Romania on the east. GE will sell its light bulbs here
and in Western Europe. Ralston-Purina Co. will make animal
feed destined for Romania as well as Hungary.
   "The rush {to invest} is motivated by greed and fear,"
says Michel David-Weill, senior partner of Lazard Freres &amp;
Co., which advises the Hungarian government. Greed because
East bloc companies may turn into low-cost producers of
exportable goods, and fear because if they don't buy these
companies, the companies might make the goods themselves and
become formidable competitors.
   What Western companies offer Hungary in technology and
management skill will help it develop a free market. Schwinn
brought in sophisticated painting machines. GE will
computerize Tungsram's hand-kept accounts and may introduce
halogen-lighting technology. It will also introduce
efficiency. Tungsram last year employed 18,000 people to make
and sell $300 million worth of light bulbs; GE's 18,000 U.S.
lighting division employees produced six times as much in
sales.
   A closer look on both sides of the factory wall in
Kiskunhalas affords a glimpse into Hungary's, and Eastern
Europe's, future.
   Texcoop, the state-owned factory, was in trouble right
from the start. The idea of putting a mammoth textile plant
in the middle of farm land came not from market demand but
from a powerful Communist boss who saw political hay in 1,200
new jobs. The target, 2.5 million pullover sweaters a year,
has never been met; in its best year, 1979, Texcoop made 1.7
million.
   "At the start, we were told how much to produce, given so
much yarn, sent all this stuff to Russia, and nobody expected
us to make a profit," Mrs. Gyorgy Olah, the plant director,
says more in sorrow than in anger as she shows a visitor
around.
   She stops by an idle knitting machine. When the plant
opened in 1975, she says, the machines were new, but the work
force inexperienced. By the time the people learned to use
the machines, the equipment was already obsolete. Now it's
hopelessly so. The 15-year-old East German machines aren't
computer-controlled and can't easily be adapted to make
different styles. All they do is churn out white acrylic
sweaters for the Soviets and plain green polo shirts for
French discounters.
   Like most Hungarian state companies, Texcoop was
top-heavy. It has a threestory building that housed the
initial 400-person administrative staff -- 33% of the work
force. Many of these offices were occupied by Communist Party
officials who didn't know a bobbin from a blowtorch. Most of
them are gone, and the building is mostly deserted.
   Texcoop got squeezed, too, by the unrealistic,
now-collapsing East bloc trading system. Even though
Hungarian costs were rising 20% a year, Romania could and did
refuse to pay more for the sweaters because Romanian
inflation was officially zero. The Hungarian government never
invested in new machines because of Texcoop's losses. Mrs.
Olah, hoping to get new equipment, listed Texcoop in the
government's book of state companies seeking foreign partners
-- with no luck.
   More promising are four separate negotiations with Italian
and German companies about leasing portions of the factory
floor. Already, Levi Strauss rents 40% of the plant floor for
25 million forints ($400,000) a year. Selling more of the
plant space would squeeze Texcoop almost out of business, but
Mrs. Olah sees no other choice.
   Production is down to 600,000 sweaters a year and probably
will fall further. Employment is down to 400 and could drop
another 25%. Boxes of Soviet-bound sweaters are piling up in
the hallways because Hungary, tired of being paid in useless
rubles, has temporarily limited its Soviet sales.
   "I'm afraid we don't have much to be proud of," Mrs. Olah
says.
   On the other side of the wall, General Manager Andras
Pinter and Frank Ross, operations director for Levi Strauss
Geneva, which handles Eastern Europe and Africa for the
parent company, bubble with pride. They show off photos of
the rebuilding of their section of the plant. They got the
key in March of 1988 and made the first jeans that September.
   Levi recruited 200 Texcoop workers. In return for a big
pay raise, it asked that they work only for Levi and not hold
down two or three other jobs to make ends meet. Levi's wages
are still low by world standards; a line worker makes about
$250 a month, a manager about $500 a month.
   Today, the workers produce a pair of blue jeans every 10.8
minutes. They were supposed to make 800,000 pair last year;
instead, they made 1.2 million -- and doubled the profit
target. Levi's absentee rate is 6%; Texcoop's is near the
Hungarian average of 25%. Levi's employee turnover in its
first year was 28% -- low for a start-up operation, managers
say.
   "The only real difference between us and Texcoop," says
Mr. Ross, a stocky, genial Scotsman, "is organization."
   Levi gets by with 12 administrators, all of whom have
personal computers. Instead of a Communist official keeping
an eye on the plant, Levi has a personnel officer. Plant
managers post daily production results: Sewing Machine 11 met
108% of its goal, Machine 12 did 106%. Four people were sick,
five on vacation. The Geneva headquarters gets daily computer
printouts. Such controls ensure that huge rolls of imported
denim arrive as needed.
   The cloth is cut on computer-controlled machines, sorted
and given to the eager workers. The women say this is the
main difference between Levi and Texcoop. "There is always
material for us to work on," says one, hunched over a sewing
machine bearing a yellow, 120%-of-production pennant.
"There's no waiting around."
   Not if the women are to produce a pair of jeans every 10.8
minutes. Mr. Ross says this compares favorably with Levi's
other 30 plants world-wide and will come down a few seconds
when a new automatic pocket-sewing machine arrives.
   Mr. Ross says Levi's only problem was to persuade
Hungarian managers to follow its procedures. "They wanted to
help us create the product," he says. "I told them we've
already created it; they just needed to operate everything
properly."
   Mr. Ross contends that the quality equals or tops that of
U.S.-made jeans. Levi prices its jeans much higher in Europe
than in the U.S. and makes more profit here. In Europe, its
image is high-fashion, the American dream. That dream costs a
Hungarian 3,500 forints -- $55, or about two weeks' salary --
for a pair of 501s in Levi's downtown shop. Levi says it
sells jeans here as fast as it can make them.
   "For Hungary, the real gain isn't 200 jobs or a lot of
blue jeans," Mr. Pinter says. "It's the model. Hungarians run
this plant. We can do this."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<LP>
   You Can Count on It]
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   (Some municipalities are expected to inflate . . . census
figures to increase their grants-in-aid." -- News note)
                                                                                                       

   Certain city fathers will be indulging
   In statistical pretenses
   To qualify for more revenue
   By taking leave of their census.
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   ---
   Unhandy Man
                                                                                                       

   When I fix something I am never spared:
   Once it is fixed, It must be repaired.
   -- Joshua Adams.
   ---
   Note for Consumers
                                                                                                       

   Emergency measures in these times of high beef, pork and
fish prices: Bite the pullet.
   -- John H. Knott Jr.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Petro-Canada Names
   Stanford to Two Posts
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   CALGARY, Alberta -- James M. Stanford, 52 years old, was
named president and chief operating officer of Petro-Canada
Inc., succeeding Edward Lakusta, 60, who is retiring.
   Mr. Stanford, an engineer who joined the state-owned oil
and natural gas concern in 1978 after 19 years at Mobil
Corp.'s Canadian unit, is currently president of Petro-Canada
Resources, a company division. He will report to Wilbert
Hopper, PetroCanada's chairman and chief executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Canadian government recently announced plans to
proceed next year with an initial public offering of 15% of
Petro-Canada, with assets of more than 8.5 billion Canadian
dollars (US$7.3 billion).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Laidlaw Agrees to Sell Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LDMFA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BURLINGTON, Ontario -- Laidlaw Inc. said it has agreed to
sell its Byers Transport Ltd. unit to Herb Assman, president
of Northern Interior FastFrate Ltd. of Prince George, British
Columbia, for $19 million.
   A Laidlaw spokeswoman said Byers no longer fits in with
the company's core businesses of waste management and
passenger transport.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Film: Kooky Ladies; Gluttonous Thugs
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   Watching "In the Spirit" is a little like spending a
couple of hours with a dotty old aunt with a so-so memory and
a good sense of humor. Much of the time you don't know what
she's saying or why, but it's all quaint and kooky and
occasionally hilarious.
   The picture brings together women who mastered the art of
kookiness in the '60s and '70s, when it mattered -- Elaine
May, Jeannie Berlin and Marlo Thomas. Here they're playing
the sweetly wayward characters they might have played back
then, before movie comedy hardened into its current state of
plot-by-numbers, jokes-by-rote. Ms. May, for example, can
make the words, "I just hate you," seem like the funniest
punchline written.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Don't expect miracles from this almost inexplicably
agreeable little film about a cheery vegetarian occultist and
a formerly wealthy housewife who go on the lam at a New Age
retreat. The Mafia wants them because a middle-aged hooker of
their acquaintance left her address book with them before she
died. The story, concocted by Ms. Berlin and Laurie Jones,
could be sillier, but not much. Yet the players and the loopy
direction by Sandra Seacat, an actress and acting coach,
generate enormous good will just by opening their mouths and
saying the unexpected.
   Ms. Thomas, looking like "That Girl" after moving from
therapy to less traditional forms of soul-searching, is Reva
Prosky, New Age vegetarian and health-food store owner. Her
Reva's perkiness has a manic quality; she is simultaneously
obsessed with death and home decorating.
   Reva holds New Age seminars in her chintz-dominated
apartment, communicates with the dead, and collects people
she imagines to be troubled souls. One of these is Crystal
(Ms. Berlin), a prostitute so hard around the edges you
expect at any minute she will pull off her wig and reveal
herself to be a female impersonator. Instead, she expands on
her experiences in the form of endless vulgar anecdotes about
her clients.
   Reva's other guests are Roger Flan (Peter Falk), a
recently fired business executive, and his frantically
pragmatic wife, Marianne (Ms. May). Mr. Falk wilts from the
heavy doses of kelp and karmic intensity and finally
disappears altogether. Then Crystal drops out, leaving the
screen to Ms. Thomas and Ms. May, who handle even the costume
changes from streetwalker micro-skirts to military camouflage
fatigues (and the plot convolutions that require such
changes).
   Oh, Melanie Griffith shows up for five minutes or so, as
yet another prostitute. Though she's now the most famous of
the group, her appearance seems like her initiation into the
kooky club, no more, no less.
   ---
   "The Cook, the Thief, His Wife &amp; Her Lover" may be one of
the most gorgeously disgusting movies ever made. This
melodramatic examination of sadism, gluttony and depravity
could hardly be more lavishly or artfully constructed. But
it's difficult to warm to a picture that opens with gangsters
smearing a man with excrement and then making him eat it, and
that ends with their leader nibbling a human corpse that's
been broiled so as to resemble a very large Peking duck.
   Director and writer Peter Greenaway has staged his film
like a play set in an ornate restaurant called "Le
Hollandais." This grossly overdone, blood-red establishment
is owned by a scatological criminal named Albert Spica,
played with unrepentant nastiness by Michael Gambon. So on a
nightly basis, Spica arrives for dinner with his entourage of
thugs and his wife (Helen Mirren), whom he has bruised in
mind and spirit.
   Only the chef is unafraid of Albert, because Albert needs
him to manage this showplace of refined gluttony. And it is
the chef who helps the wife carry on with her lover back in
the kitchen storerooms. One night they do it under the
pheasants hanging from a line, waiting to be plucked; one
night by the cheese.
   There is little story and much art direction in this
visually stunning fable. Mr. Greenaway and cinematographer
Sacha Vierny and set designers Ben Van Os and Jan Roelfs have
created remarkable landscapes that seem lifted out of a
feverish dream. The violence is equally vivid. The film
makers have achieved what they set out to: repulsive excess.
   ---
   "Impulse," a forgettable thriller directed by Sondra Locke
and starring Theresa Russell, is worth mentioning only
because it is part of what seems to be a trend: the casting
of women cops on the Dirty Harry model. ("Blue Steel" is the
other recent example.) Some progress.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: Cannibalism may understandably never be amusing
to many people. However, other carnivorous consumption can be
the acceptable subject of much pleasure, and no movie
celebrates that pleasure more delightfully than "Babette's
Feast."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Knowledge Data Signs Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   KDSI
</CO>
<LP>
   SALT LAKE CITY -- Knowledge Data Systems Inc. said it
signed an agreement to sell as much as $35 million in
hardware and software to Kaiser Permanente's Northern
California region.
   The region contains 14 hospitals and 27 outpatient medical
offices that serve about 2.2 million people. Knowledge Data
said it will install its patient care management system and
other systems in Kaiser facilities over a five-year period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italy Appears Ready
   To End Its Restraints
   On Capital Movement
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROME -- Italy is ready to lift its last remaining
restrictions on capital flows by the end of this month,
monetary officials here said.
   The action would allow Italian residents to open savings
and checking accounts abroad and hold foreign-currency
accounts in Italy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the European Community deadline for the first stage
of monetary union, member states must lift all capital-flow
restrictions by July 1, and Italy is the last of the major
countries to do so. Monetary officials here say the
government now is prepared to act in the next few weeks -- in
advance of May 6 local elections -- rather than wait for the
EC deadline.
   "The decision to remove remaining restrictions on capital
movements is imminent," Carlo Ciampi, the Bank of Italy
governor, said in a speech to businessmen. The action, he
said, would conclude "the `long march' of our economy toward
the objective of full freedom of capital without sacrificing
exchange-rate stability."
   Citing a strong, stable lira and high domestic interest
rates, officials expressed confidence that the end of
controls wouldn't lead to a big outflow of savings, as once
was feared.
   Nonetheless, monetary and other officials generally agree
that a reduction in the 30% withholding tax on bank interest
earnings will be necessary to minimize the transfer of
savings to foreign-currency accounts. Italy's central bank
wants to cut that tax rate to 20%; others in government want
a more modest initial cut -- to 25%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Viewpoint:
   If Corporations Are Silenced in
   Political Debate, Who's Next?
   ----
   By Michael Gartner
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<LP>
   It's hard to keep up on all the news these days. So in
case you've been concentrating on broccoli -- clearly a
front-page story every bit as important as Millie and her
pups -- let me tell you what the Supreme Court was up to last
week.
   It was up to no good.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The court said, in effect, that political debate can
become one-sided and that states can censor it. It said
corporations, be they for-profit or not-for-profit, can be
barred from telling you what they think about a candidate,
and it will take no great leap to expand that thinking to
include causes and issues.
   The court said, in the words of dissenting Justice Antonin
Scalia, that "too much speech is an evil" that states can
stamp out.
   As the comedians say, I am not making this up.
   Here are the facts:
   In 1976, the state of Michigan passed a campaign-finance
law that said, among other things, that a corporation can't
use its general treasury funds to make so-called independent
expenditures in a political campaign. That means the
corporation can't, for instance, take out an ad or send out a
brochure endorsing or opposing this or that candidate.
   In 1985, the Michigan Chamber of Commerce decided that a
man named Richard Bandstra was the best candidate in a
special election in Grand Rapids to fill a seat in the state
house of representatives. The chamber proposed taking out an
advertisement talking about the need for Michigan to change
its workers'-compensation law and to lower its personal
income-tax rate. In that ad it proposed saying, "The State
Chamber is committed to job development in Michigan. We
believe Richard Bandstra shares that commitment."
   But the chamber, reading the 1976 law, decided maybe its
ad was illegal. So it sought to find out. A federal district
judge said yes, indeed, the ad was barred by the statute. The
Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, saying the statute
violated the First Amendment. Then, last week, the Supreme
Court, in a 6-3 vote, reversed again, upholding the statute
and ignoring the Constitution.
   The opinion was written by Justice Thurgood Marshall, one
of the court's liberals, and was joined by Justice William J.
Brennan, the man liberals always look to to defend their
rights to speak or write or gather or pray. They were joined
by the court's moderates and Chief Justice William Rehnquist,
a man always ready to rein in the First Amendment. Opposing
the decision -- and thus favoring full rights of free speech
-- were Justices Scalia and Anthony Kennedy and Sandra Day
O'Connor.
   Opposing, too, in friend-of-the-court briefs were such
disparate groups as the American Civil Liberties Union, the
American Medical Association, the National Association of
Realtors, Greenpeace Action, the Fund for the Feminist
Majority and the American Insurance Association. Clearly, a
lot of people were worried. And their worries turned out to
be well-founded.
   Justice Marshall, in the opinion, said it was OK to
squelch speech because there was "a compelling state
interest" -- preventing corruption or the appearance of
corruption in the political arena by reducing the threat that
huge corporate treasuries will be used to influence unfairly
election outcomes.
   This is absurd -- and dangerous.
   It's absurd because this is America, and America isn't
supposed to stifle the speech of man or corporation. (The
fact that corporations amass large treasuries does not
justify the suppression of political speech, Justice Scalia
wrote, "unless one thinks it would be lawful to prohibit men
and women whose net worth is above a certain figure from
endorsing political candidates.")
   It's absurd because money -- from political action
committees and others -- already plays a huge role in
American elections. It's absurd because censorship is a far
greater political sin than is overspending or even buying an
election.
   It's dangerous because it sets a new course, a course in
which a government can censor speech that simply has the
potential for causing harm, not speech (like Justice Holmes's
example of shouting fire in a crowded theater) that actually
causes harm.
   "Today's reversal of field will require adjustment of a
fairly large number of significant First Amendment holdings,"
Justice Scalia said in a dissent that he actually read from
the bench because he felt so strongly about the issue.
   "Presumably the State may now convict individuals for
selling books found to have a potentially harmful influence
on minors . . ., ban indecent telephone communications that
have the potential of reaching minors . . ., restrict the
press from publishing information that has the potential of
jeopardizing a criminal defendant's right to a fair trial . .
. and compel an applicant for bar membership to reveal her
political beliefs and affiliations to eliminate the potential
for subversive activity."
   Perhaps the bill has a noble objective, Mr. Scalia wrote.
"But government abridgement of liberty is always undertaken
with the very best of announced objectives (dictators promise
to bring order, not tyranny), and often with the very best of
genuinely intended objectives (zealous policemen conduct
unlawful searches in order to put dangerous felons behind
bars).
   "The premise of our Bill of Rights, however, is that there
are some things -- even some seemingly desirable things --
that government cannot be trusted to do. The very first of
these is establishing the restrictions upon speech that will
assure `fair' political debate."
   The theory behind the ruling is that corporations are
owned by their stockholders and those people might not want
the corporation to spend its money for political purposes.
   If that's the case, then it seems logical to rule, too,
that no executive -- whose pay comes from general corporate
funds -- can speak out in political debate. And no
stockholder can use his dividends for political purposes.
That, of course, is absurd, as absurd as last week's ruling.
   In a separate dissent, Justice Kennedy wrote: "With the
imprimatur of this Court, it is now a felony in Michigan for
the Sierra Club, or the American Civil Liberties Union, or
the Michigan State Chamber of Commerce, to advise the public
how a candidate voted on issues of urgent concern to their
members. In both practice and theory, the prohibition aims at
the heart of political debate."
   Twenty states have laws similar to Michigan's. So, in
about half this nation, we now have what Justice Kennedy
calls "the rawest form of censorship: the state censors what
a particular segment of the political community might say
with regard to candidates who stand for election."
   Any kind of censorship is dreadful. But censorship of
political talk is the worst of all. And as of last week,
that's what we have in the United States.
   ---
   Mr. Gartner is editor and co-owner of the Daily Tribune in
Ames, Iowa, and president of NBC News in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Focus:
   Questions Are Mounting About U.S. Shoe
   ---
   Accounting Inquiry Is Latest
   Twist in a Tangled Tale
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   USR
</CO>
<IN>
RETAILING (RET)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   U.S. Shoe Corp., once known for its consistent growth and
sure-footed management, is anything but steady these days.
   Last week, U.S. Shoe said it discovered accounting
irregularities at a troubled shoe-import unit, forcing it to
take a $7.4 million charge. The company's outside accountants
are still investigating problems at the unit, but some former
executives and analysts believe the irregularities may extend
further within the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We simply don't know the depth of the problems in
footwear, but the write-off suggests that the problems are
deep," says Barry Bryant, a retail analyst at
Prudential-Bache Securities.
   The accounting disclosures come at a time when U.S. Shoe
is struggling to gain consistent profits in both its footwear
and women's apparel units. Moreover, the chief executive
officer who dominated the company for 25 years has just
stepped down, and his successor has no experience in either
of U.S. Shoe's traditional businesses.
   The accounting irregularities are the latest in a series
of puzzling incidents that have bewildered large
institutional investors, some of which have lost patience
with the company. In the past year, such large investors as
Templeton, Galbraith &amp; Hansberger Ltd. and Prudential
Insurance Company of America have cut their stake in the
company, and Fireman's Fund Corp. sold its 6.8% share.
   U.S. Shoe, based in Cincinnati, says that other investors
have been buying in, but the stock has fallen badly from its
1989 high of $27.50 a share, when the price was bid up during
an aborted leveraged buy-out of the company's footwear
division. The stock closed yesterday at $20.125, up 37.5
cents, in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange,
down 87.5 cents a share since the company announced the
accounting irregularities last Thursday.
   "People don't understand what the problem is," one money
manager says. "This is a company where things keep going
wrong."
   Or unexplained. Last April, Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.'s Merrill
Lynch Capital Partners unit pulled out of the agreement to
acquire the footwear division in a $422.5 million leveraged
buy-out. Merrill Lynch never said why, but U.S. Shoe
attributed the pullout to jitters in the junk-bond market and
a huge drop in the footwear unit's fiscal first-quarter
operating earnings last year.
   Prior to the attempt to buy out the footwear unit, U.S.
Shoe failed last year to find a buyer for the entire company.
At that point it appeared that Philip G. Barach would
continue to lead the business he built from a little-known
shoe manufacturer to a $2.6 billion giant. But last month,
the hard-driving Mr. Barach stepped down as chief executive,
stunning friends and former colleagues.
   "I was shocked," says one former U.S. Shoe executive. "I
thought the only way he would leave would be in a box."
   The 59-year-old Mr. Barach, who retains his position as
chairman, insists he only wanted to lighten his workload and
spend more time with his family. Health was also a factor: He
had a heart attack 12 years ago and quadruple bypass surgery
seven years ago.
   Mr. Barach's unexpected resignation prompted speculation
that he was pressured to leave by restive investors or by
directors. As net income dropped to $13 million in fiscal
1988 from $65 million in 1985, some observers questioned
whether Mr. Barach should continue to run the company, which
makes more than 25 popular brands of shoes and operates
hundreds of specialty apparel and optical stores. Net income
rose to $49.2 million in the year ended Feb. 3.
   Mr. Barach, however, says he told the board in June of
1988 that he planned to step down this year and vigorously
denies anyone nudged him out.
   His successor, Bannus B. Hudson, is credited with building
U.S. Shoe's successful Lenscrafters unit into its most
profitable operation. But the speciality optical division
accounts for only about one-fifth of the company's sales. The
44-year-old Mr. Hudson, who has been with U.S. Shoe for four
years, has no experience in its main, and highly
unpredictable, businesses: women's apparel and footwear.
   "Do I have great experience as a merchant? Absolutely not,
but I bring several things to the party," Mr. Hudson says. He
spent 18 years at Procter &amp; Gamble Co. in marketing and
manufacturing and will likely bring a more professional
management style to the company than Mr. Barach, whose
specialty was spotting retail trends.
   Mr. Hudson has inherited some tough problems, notably the
accounting investigation at the Marx &amp; Newman import unit.
Last week U.S. Shoe said it "terminated" the unit's chief
financial officer for "spurious bookkeeping entries" that it
said resulted in the $7.4 million charge. The company alleges
that the former official, Frank Paliotta, shifted sales from
one shoe brand to another, underestimated costs and
exaggerated sales figures by recording them after the
specified reporting period.
   But the company said it found no evidence that Mr.
Paliotta stole money or inventory from the company, and can
cite no motive for the alleged irregularities.
   In an interview from his New York home, Mr. Paliotta
denied he was fired and said it was the first he had heard
that the company was characterizing his departure as a
dismissal. He accused U.S. Shoe of using him as a scapegoat
for other problems at the division, based in Port Washington,
N.Y., which had losses of $13 million last year.
   Mr. Paliotta said he left the company four weeks ago after
his supervisors offered him another job because they were
unhappy with his performance.
   "U.S. Shoe didn't want me in that position, they offered
me another position and I didn't want it," says Mr. Paliotta,
who is still job hunting. "I think they're using me as a
scapegoat for all their problems." He declined to be
specific.
   Mr. Hudson said the investigation, conducted with its
accountants, Arthur Andersen &amp; Co. during an annual audit, is
now focusing on factories in Italy and Spain that manufacture
its shoes, but he doesn't expect additional write-offs.
   The company took a one-time charge of 19 cents a share in
the fourth quarter ended Jan. 28, 1989, partly because of the
sale of a shoe unit. In its first quarter of last year,
operating profit for the footwear division plunged 62% in
part because of "order cancellations resulting from late
deliveries of imported footwear," the company said.
   "You've had two charge-offs and one severe drop in
earnings in the past five quarters, all primarily related to
the footwear division," says Mr. Bryant, the retail analyst.
   U.S. Shoe's footwear division has been dogged by
speculation among analysts that its accounting and inventory
practices are lax. Mr. Bryant says the most recent write-off
at Marx &amp; Newman indicates that more accounting
irregularities might be found.
   "There is no direct evidence of fire, but the company has
been sending up clouds of smoke on a regular basis," Mr.
Bryant says.
   U.S. Shoe says that the investigation is focused
exclusively on Marx &amp; Newman and Arthur Andersen confirmed
that its audit didn't find any accounting irregularities
outside of the shoe-import unit. U.S. Shoe said it doesn't
expect further problems to be found.
   Despite the recent problems, Mr. Barach said the company
will announce at an analysts' meeting this afternoon that
U.S. Shoe is having an excellent first quarter. But the
company has already been hurt by the Marx &amp; Newman case. In
its fourth quarter ended Feb. 3, shoe division operating
earnings declined 37%, to $30 million, primarily due to
losses associated with the shoe-import unit.
   The company does have at least one star performer in the
footwear division. That's Easy Spirit, a comfortable women's
dress shoe introduced in 1987.
   U.S. Shoe also has to bring consistency to its women's
apparel division. The company's Casual Corner chain, a cash
cow in the 1970s, has fallen behind the Limited and the Gap
as a trend-setter, analysts note. Last year, the division
rebounded from a disastrous 1988, with operating profit
almost tripling to $53.2 million, but it still hasn't shown
the profit growth of top competitors.
   U.S. Shoe will also try to get as much mileage as possible
from its best player, Lenscrafters, which is to expand
overseas next year. In the U.S., the unit's annual sales
snowballed to $532 million in fiscal 1990 from $142 million
in fiscal 1986, and it continues to rack up equally
impressive profits.
   Perhaps Mr. Hudson's greatest challenge will be to put his
own stamp on the company that has so long been dominated by
Mr. Barach. It won't be easy. Mr. Barach, who has had many
run-ins with subordinates, will still be working at U.S. Shoe
as a "consultant" for the duration of his three-year
contract.
   "He's not been meddlesome or bothersome," Mr. Hudson says,
adding that he still recognizes how important Mr. Barach is
to the company. "I have the respect and support of Phil
Barach," he says, "and that's worth a great deal."
   ---
                   U.S. Shoe's Businesses
                                                                                                       

   Contribution to 1989 sales and operating earnings
                                                                                                       

                                    Sales       Earnings
                                                                                                       

   Women's specialty retailing       48%           40%
   Footwear                          31%           23%
   Eyewear                           21%           37%
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Canadian Tire Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CTR.A
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANADIAN TIRE Corp. said it plans to issue 150 million
Canadian dollars (US$128.7 million) of 12.1% debentures due
2010. The Toronto-based retailer said Wood Gundy Inc., Gordon
Capital Corp. and Burns Fry Ltd. have agreed to purchase the
issue around May 10. The company said it would file a
preliminary prospectus with all the Canadian provinces in the
next few days. The company said net proceeds will be used to
repay short-term debt and to fund capital expenditures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   Fox Joins Hollywood Pack
   Seeking Financing in Japan
   ----
   By Laura Landro and Kathleen A. Hughes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS JAPAN MCA SP CRC
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   News Corp.'s Twentieth Century Fox Film unit is joining
the growing wave of Hollywood studios and production firms
seeking financial backing from Japan.
   According to Hollywood studio executives, agents and
investment bankers, at least a half-dozen transactions
involving new Japanese investments in Hollywood are under
discussion. The transactions range from bank financing for
major Hollywood studios to equity investments in companies
headed by individual producers. Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., for
example, is attempting to raise money for producer Lee Rich,
partly with Japanese investors. And powerful talent agency
Creative Artists Agency has been approached by a number of
Japanese investors about providing a pool of movie financing
for producers and directors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With the Japanese stock market in turmoil, the current
spate of discussions may never materialize into real
transactions. But the Japanese interest in owning a piece of
Hollywood is clearly still going strong. For a large studio
such as Fox, such financing could help in the studio's plans
to significantly boost its annual production of motion
pictures. Its parent, News Corp., is strapped for cash, and
it will take Fox $500 million or more over the next two years
to finance all the movies the studio wants to make.
   Chase Carey, Fox executive vice president, says he
recently spent a week in Japan talking to Japanese companies
about raising funds to back movie production. Although he
stresses that Fox hasn't set a target for how much money it
wants to raise, and may end up doing nothing at all, "We are
exploring the Japanese markets to see what degree of interest
there is to invest money toward film production."
   The Japanese have already made some very big and highly
visible investments in Hollywood, notably Sony Corp.'s $5
billion purchase of Columbia Pictures Entertainment. On a
smaller scale, JVC Corp. recently invested $100 million in
Largo Productions, producer Larry Gordon's company. And in
December, Morgan Creek Productions, a closely held film
production company, formed a film-financing joint venture
with the Nomura Babcock &amp; Brown unit of Tokyo-based Nomura
Securities Co. Nomura officials acknowledge that they are
close to putting together a film-financing venture for
another Hollywood concern, but decline to identify it.
   MCA Inc.'s Universal Studios is also exploring the
possibility of Japanese financing for motion picture
production. Although company officials declined to discuss
the matter, one executive there said "everybody's talking"
about financing from Japan.
   Although much of the interest in Hollywood comes from
Japanese industrial or trading companies, individual
investors are increasingly interested in U.S. film-financing
partnerships, according to Liz Saxon of Los Angeles-based
Takenaka &amp; Co., which works with Japanese investors in the
U.S. Such partnerships provide tax benefits of the kind that
used to attract U.S. investors before the changes in tax laws
in the U.S. "Securities companies and others in Japan are
putting together funds by selling units to investors," she
said. "Even if the films don't make money, they can still
come out ahead" because of such benefits as accelerated
depreciation of film costs.
   Although a number of the transactions under discussion
involve equity investments, Hollywood studios and production
companies are also looking to Japanese commercial banks for
debt financing and individual project financing. Japanese
banks are offering more-attractive interest rates than U.S.
banks -- and a number of U.S. banks have pulled back from
entertainment lending, burned by the failures of independent
producers. "Clearly American funding sources have slowed,"
says Mr. Carey of Fox. "That's led people to more
aggressively explore overseas lending."
   Spelling Entertainment Inc. which has said it is
considering the possible sale of the company, has had "some
Japanese interest in buying the company," according to Jules
Haimovitz, president of Spelling. However, he said: "I
wouldn't characterize the Japanese interest as aggressive.
They are more interested in film than television. Television
hasn't been as translatable."
   Meanwhile, Carolco Pictures Inc. recently appointed Long
Term Credit Bank of Japan to "seek money in Japan." Peter
Hoffman, president and chief executive officer of Carolco,
declined to say what amount the company hopes to raise. But
he did say the funding would be used to boost production. Mr.
Hoffman also said Mario Kassar, chairman of Carolco, visited
Japan to discuss funding earlier this year.
   A number of Hollywood producers are also making the trek
to Tokyo to seek funding. Producer Edward R. Pressman, for
example, couldn't be reached to comment on Japanese
investment in his films because "he's in Tokyo," said Neal
Weisman, vice president of Edward R. Pressman Film Corp.,
which recently produced the movie "Blue Steel."
   Mr. Weisman said Shochiku-Fuji, a Japanese film
distribution company helped to fund "Reversal of Fortune," a
movie in the works about Claus Von Bulow, and "New Rose
Hotel," a movie that will be directed by Kathryn Bigelow.
That movie will be shot in Tokyo.
   Mr. Weisman said the Japanese will have an equity
investment in the two movies and also have the rights to
distribute the movie in Japan. He said Mr. Pressman made
another trip to Tokyo last month and is talking to other
Japanese entities as well.
   The interest of Japanese investors in the U.S. film
industry is hardly surprising; Japan is the largest foreign
market for U.S. films, and videocassette markets in Japan are
booming. Japanese investors are also cognizant of the scarce
value of motion picture libraries in an era where demand for
U.S. entertainment programming world-wide is growing
exponentially.
   At the same time, observers caution that Japanese
investors are aware of the risk of U.S. film production and
the difficulty outsiders often encounter when trying to get a
share of a studio's closely guarded profits. Japanese
investors "want to invest a lot of money for the right deals
and the right relationships, but they can be conservative and
picky," says Alex Ben Block, who publishes a movie business
newsletter, Show Biz News. "Every hustler can't go to Japan
and get money."
   David Weil, a partner at Los Angeles law firm O'Melveny &amp;
Myers, which represents Japanese investors and U.S.
entertainment interests, says, "There's a misperception in
Hollywood that Japanese investors will do anything to get
into the movie business, and that's causing anyone who has a
script to make the trip to Japan." Even so, he adds, "Many
Japanese investors don't know the best way to enter an
industry which, unlike many others, is likely to be
controlled by Americans for quite a while, and the
uncertainty is causing them to invest in almost a hit or miss
manner."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hewlett-Packard Tokyo Lab
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HWP JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   PALO ALTO, Calif. -- Hewlett-Packard Co. said it
established a research laboratory in Tokyo.
   The Japanese laboratory will focus on applied research in
integrated circuit testing, photonics and low-temperature
electronic devices. Most of the research staff will be hired
locally, Hewlett-Packard said. The staff will work with other
company scientists and engineers, as well as visiting
scientists and professors, to develop technology for
Hewlett-Packard.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Tokyo center is part of an expansion of
Hewlett-Packard's research activities. Last year, the company
established a new science center in the U.S., and one in
Italy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   GORBACHEV DENOUNCED Estonia's drive for gradual
independence.
   In a telephone call to the president of the Baltic
republic, the Kremlin leader criticized a resolution
declaring Estonia an occupied state and said Tallinn's call
for step-by-step secession was invalid. The Estonian official
said Gorbachev threatened "similar measures as those taken in
Lithuania." In Vilnius, Lithuanian lawmakers approved a
resolution accusing the Soviet Union of using the army in an
attempt "to overthrow" the government of the republic, which
proclaimed its independence three weeks ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Secretary of State Baker opened talks in Washington with
Moscow's Shevardnadze, who pledged a "wise and fair"
resolution to the situation in Lithuania.
   ---
   ISRAEL'S PERES CLAIMED enough support to form a governing
coalition.
   The Labor Party leader, who has been negotiating with
small political parties since the March 15 collapse of Prime
Minister Shamir's government, said he had enough backing in
the Knesset to form a ruling coalition. He requested a
special session of the parliament to approve the new
government. Peres, who supports U.S. proposals for Mideast
peace talks, refused to name the new coalition members, and
radio reports questioned whether he had the needed votes.
   Ex-President Carter, who met in Paris with PLO leader
Arafat and France's Mitterrand, blamed leaders in the Mideast
for stalled peace efforts.
   ---
   Bush held talks in Washington with West Germany's
Genscher, who predicted that the Germanys would be reunited
next year. The foreign minister also said the Soviet Union
eventually may agree that a unified Germany should be in
NATO. In Bonn, West Germany said it wants a pact on monetary
union with East Germany by next month.
                                                                                                       

   East German political parties neared formation of a
non-Communist government. Officials agreed to ask Christian
Democrat leader Maiziere to try to build a coalition, and the
legislature is expected to approve the move when it convenes
today.
   ---
   The House approved a bill requiring the Justice Department
for the first time to collect and publish statistics on
so-called hate crimes, those that are motivated by prejudice
based on a victim's race, religion, national origin or sexual
orientation. The measure, already passed by the Senate, goes
to Bush, who is expected to sign it.
   ---
   Mandela said the African National Congress is committed to
talks with South Africa's government, even though the group
canceled exploratory discussions that had been set for next
week. He said his meeting today with President de Klerk would
help determine whether both sides are prepared for
power-sharing negotiations.
   ---
   El Salvador's government met in Geneva with
representatives of the country's leftist rebels for
U.N.-sponsored talks in a renewed effort to end a 10-year-old
civil war. Both sides agreed to seek a cease-fire as an
"initial objective" toward a negotiated settlement, but the
guerrillas linked acceptance of such a truce to political
changes.
   ---
   China's Li asserted that the country's leadership is
"united and strong," and that the public doesn't want a
renewal of last year's student-led protests. The premier, in
his first comments since Beijing's crackdown on dissent, also
said that former Communist Party chief Zhao was being
investigated over his stance during the protests.
   ---
   Lebanon's rival Christian forces battled in Beirut after
Lebanese Forces chief Geagea urged Syrian-backed President
Hrawi to send army troops into the country's Christian
enclave to end two months of fighting. Maronite Catholic
clerics, meanwhile, attempted to forge a truce between
Geagea's militia and forces loyal to Gen. Aoun.
   ---
   Colombia's President Barco said the suspected leader of
the Medellin-based cocaine-trafficking operation won't be
extradited to the U.S. if he surrenders to authorities. It
was the first time that Barco, who guaranteed a fair trial
for Pablo Escobar, has made such a pledge since ordering a
government crackdown on drugs last August.
   ---
   Khashoggi was portrayed in opening arguments in U.S. court
in New York as a naive businessman who kept in contact with
the Marcoses in 1986 because he was promised a part of a
shipload of gold. Prosecutors contended that numerous phone
calls by the Saudi financier to the couple were part of an
effort to cover up alleged racketeering.
   ---
   Died: Sarah Vaughan, 66, jazz vocalist who was considered
one of the most distinguished singers to rise from the be-bop
era, near Los Angeles, Tuesday, of lung cancer. . . . Edward
E. Carlson, 78, ex-chairman of UAL Inc., Tuesday, in Seattle,
of cancer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Fund Assets
   Post Largest Drop
   Since January
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Yields on money-market mutual funds remained relatively
flat in the latest week, but assets posted the largest drop
since early January.
   The average seven-day compound yield slipped to 7.97% from
7.98% in the week ended Tuesday, according to IBC/Donoghue's
Money Fund Report, a Holliston, Mass.-based newsletter.
Compound yields assume reinvestment of dividends and that the
current yield continues for a year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Assets of the 426 taxable funds tracked by Donoghue's fell
by $1.5 billion to $383.6 billion. The previous decline in
assets was less than $900 million in mid-March. Assets
dropped by $3.6 billion in early January, although that was
attributed to seasonal factors.
   The latest week's drop was across the board, said Brenda
Malizia Negus, editor of the newsletter, affecting general
purpose funds, broker-dealer funds and funds open only to
institutions. But Ms. Negus called the decline "not
statistically significant," noting that it was well under 1%
of total assets.
   Although the deadline for paying income taxes is less than
two weeks away, Ms. Negus said it's a bit early for that to
be a significant factor in money-fund assets. The latest
totals reflect checks written a week ago or more.
   Assets rose steadily last spring as yields reached their
recent highs. There was a falloff of about $435 million at
the end of April, which analysts then attributed to an
attractive stock market. Total money-fund assets have
increased about $80 billion since then.
   The latest money-fund yields reflect generally unchanged
interest rates. Treasury bills sold at Monday's auction, for
instance, yielded just two-hundredths of a percentage point
less than the week before. Yields on bank certificates of
deposit also were little changed in the latest week.
   Average maturity of the funds' investments, which include
short-term Treasury securities, CDs and commercial paper
(short-term corporate IOUs), remained at 45 days. Maturities
are thought to indicate which way portfolio managers think
rates are headed; longer maturities permit them to lock in
relatively high yields when rates are falling just as short
maturities allow them to capture rising rates sooner.
   The average seven-day simple yield of the taxable funds
slid to 7.67% from 7.69%. The average 30-day simple yield
edged up to 7.67% from 7.66% and the average 30-day compound
yield rose to 7.97% from 7.95%.
   Yields on tax-free funds rose. The average seven-day
compound yield of the 220 tax-exempt funds tracked by
Donoghue's rose to 5.57% from 5.49%. That's equal to 7.74%
for an investor in the 28% tax bracket and 8.31% in the 33%
bracket.
   Assets of the tax-free funds fell by just under $100
million to $77.3 billion, while average maturity remained at
46 days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Theater:
   A Weekend in Search of an Identity
   ----
   By Edwin Wilson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   Louisville, Ky. -- At the Humana Festival of New American
Plays at the Actors Theatre of Louisville (ATL), visitors see
seven plays in a single weekend, productions unfolding
morning, afternoon and evening with a logistical expertise
the Pentagon would envy. This year's recently completed
festival was the 14th. Through the years there have been
marked ups and downs in the quality of the plays offered, but
some things have been constant: The productions are expertly
designed and mounted and the event continues to bring
together more theater people -- critics, playwrights,
dramaturgs -- from more parts of the world than any other
single gathering. Despite its many virtues, however, the
festival after all this time remains a weekend in search of
an identity.
   Take, for example, the matter of commissioned plays:
Should they be the centerpiece of the festival, or on the
periphery? Several years ago, ATL Producing Director Jon Jory
began offering handsome commissions for new plays, not only
to playwrights but to well-known novelists and journalists.
Dramatists felt the commissions should go to young
playwrights; other detractors claimed it was primarily a
public-relations move.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Jory himself acknowledges that he has learned a few
lessons. "Journalists like William F. Buckley and Jimmy
Breslin didn't work out too well," he admits. "I also
discovered that it takes longer for a commissioned work to
come to fruition than I originally thought: two to three
years instead of one." But Mr. Jory is clear in his rationale
for bringing novelists into the mainstream of theater
writing. "Ours is the only culture in Western civilization
that does not think of the writer in terms of many forms:
short story, novel and drama. I think we should change that."
   In support of his ideas, the two most interesting plays in
this year's festival were the commissioned works, one from
veteran playwright Romulus Linney and the other from novelist
Joyce Carol Oates. Mr. Linney's "2" is a backstage look at
the prosecution of Hermann Goering during the Nuremberg
trials in 1945-46. Goering was an unwavering No. 2 to Hitler
even though the fuehrer had ordered his execution and that of
Goering's wife and daughter. An incorrigible, unrepentant
Nazi, Goering charmed his guards and easily bested the
American prosecutor, Robert Jackson, during his
cross-examination. It was the British prosecutor, and the
graphic, sickening films of concentration camps -- shown as
part of the Linney play -- that actually led to Goering's
conviction.
   The play's chief flaw is a minor one: The friendship
between Goering and one of his guards, a sergeant who shares
his admiration for the paintings of Lucas Cranach, stretches
credulity. If Mr. Linney can eliminate this and a couple of
other minor problems he will have an important play on his
hands. The Louisville production, astutely directed by Thomas
Allan Bullard, featured William Duff-Griffin in a riveting
performance as Goering.
   For her part, Ms. Oates was almost as obsessed with the
fascination of evil as Mr. Linney in her two one-act plays
paired under the title of "In Darkest America." In the first
one, she used projections of photographs and an offstage
voice to augment the predicament of a typical suburban
husband and wife whose 22-year-old son has sexually molested
and murdered a 14-year-old girl. The play is somewhat
attenuated despite all this, the juxtaposition of the
banality of the couple's existence with the violence of the
crime and the cosmic questions raised by the offstage voice
make for an unusual theater piece.
   The second Oates play is more traditional as well as more
successful. A grown daughter, Stephanie Washburn (Beth
Dixon), a rising star in the feminist movement, shares an
apartment with her eccentric mother, Muriel (Madeleine
Sherwood). Just at the point where Stephanie is scheduled to
attend a national conference crucial to her career, the
mother careens out of control, developing among other things
a fantasy affair with a young Latin lover. As Stephanie tries
to decide whether or not to go ahead with her plans, the
whole of the tortured relationship between mother and
daughter is bared and terrible truths are unearthed. With her
ear for dialogue, her natural affinity for melodrama and her
penetrating sense of character, Ms. Oates clearly should
continue to write for the theater.
   Another confusing issue is whether the festival's plays
should be regarded as finished scripts or works in progress.
Mr. Jory insists that an important function of the festival
is to allow playwrights "to see an unfinished work presented
in a first-class production before a sophisticated
audience."A good example was this year's "Infinity's House"
by Ellen McLaughlin. The setting is the American desert, in
fact, three deserts. Ms. McLaughlin moves back and forth from
the Nevada desert of 1850 with California-bound pioneers, to
Promontory Point in Utah in 1869 where Chinese laborers were
finishing the transcontinental railroad, and to the desert in
New Mexico in 1945, where J. Robert Oppenheimer and Gen. L.R.
Groves oversaw the first atomic explosion.
   It's a fascinating juxtaposition. The pioneers, for
example have lost their way; the Chinese, having suffered
unbearable hardships to complete the railroad, are about to
become expendable; the scientists on the eve of the first
detonation are wondering about the efficacy and ethics of
their efforts.
   The problem is that Ms. McLaughlin took the infinity in
her title too literally: The play goes on and on
interminably. Many vignettes are moving as well as
provocative, and there may be a powerful play lurking in her
narrative, but as it stands she has much too much material.
Watching the play is like living through a Thomas Wolfe novel
on stage. For those attending the festival the question
becomes how to judge such a play. For people who have
traveled a long distance to attend an important theater
festival, it takes considerable suspension of disbelief to
view the polished production on stage with the same
indulgence one might extend to an unfinished play.
   One trademark of the ATL Festival is a regional play -- a
"good ole boy" caper filled with down-home humor. This year's
entry is a "good ole gal" play with the unwieldy title of
"Zara Spook and Other Lures." Written by Joan
Ackermann-Blount, it is an interesting exercise in role
reversal. A group of women take off for a fishing contest in
the West, only to be pursued by their men, who feel deserted
and deprived of their company. Ms. Ackermann-Blount has a
true comic gift. In a discussion of schizophrenia one of her
characters remarks: "The way I see it, some folks got the
cookies and other folks got the jar."
   The second act needs serious trimming, but just as surely
as her heroine hauls in a prize-winning fish, Ms.
Ackermann-Blount has hold of a very funny play. As for Mr.
Jory and his colleagues at ATL, they may not know what they
have hold of, but there is nothing quite like it. Part
carnival, part new-play development, part international
conference, the festival is a one-of-a-kind theater
experience.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senate Clears Kelley
   For New Fed Term
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate confirmed the nomination of
Edward Kelley to a new term on the Federal Reserve Board.
   The nomination of Mr. Kelley to a full 14-year term that
began Feb. 1 was approved by a voice vote. A former Houston
businessman, Mr. Kelley is a longtime friend of both
President Bush and Secretary of State James Baker. He rarely
speaks publicly about the economy or Fed policy and isn't
thought to have a strong influence on monetary policy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Before joining the Fed board in 1987, Mr. Kelley, 57 years
old, was chairman of Investment Advisors Inc., a Houston
money manager. He is a graduate of Rice University and
received a master's degree in business administration from
Harvard University.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   O'Brien Energy Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OBS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- O'Brien Energy Systems said its
subsidiary, O'Brien Fuels Inc., acquired 76% of Enercol
Energy Ltd. of the U.K.
   Terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lancashire Enterprise Ltd., a British government venture
capital fund, owns the balance of Enercol, which is involved
in landfill gas project development and compressed natural
gas for vehicle fuel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Campeau's U.S. Units
   Project 3% Decline
   In 1st-Period Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC
</CO>
<IN>
RETAILING (RET)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Campeau Corp.'s troubled U.S. retail units
projected that first-quarter sales will be down 3% and
second-quarter sales will be roughly equal to those of the
same quarter last year.
   Federated Department Stores Inc. and Allied Stores Corp.
announced cash flow and sales projections for the first and
second quarters of 1990 at a meeting of creditors of the two
Campeau units. Campeau's first quarter runs from February
through April. Comparisons between 1990 and 1989 figures
didn't include sales from new stores.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cash flow in the first quarter was projected to be $29
million for Federated and $14 million for Allied.
   Company officials said that the flat sales projections for
the second quarter provide evidence that Federated and Allied
are recovering from their Chapter 11 federal-bankrputcy court
filing on Jan. 15. The companies predicted cash flow in the
second quarter will be $24 million for Federated and $6
million for Allied.
   At the meeting yesterday, James Zimmerman, president of
Federated and Allied, told creditors that since January the
companies had instituted cost-cutting measures at the
corporate and divisional levels that would save $50 million
annually. The savings were in payroll and nonpayroll cuts, he
said.
   About 250 creditors and lawyers attended the informational
meeting, which is mandated by the U.S. bankruptcy code. Allen
I. Questrom, chairman and chief executive officer of
Federated and Allied, told creditors that the company had
succeeded in retaining and motivating personnel and stocking
its stores with merchandise.
   "We have substantially stabilized our organizations and
our work force, and in almost all areas of our business we
have managed to restore normalcy to our ongoing operations,"
Mr. Questrom said.
   Creditors were invited to ask executives questions but few
did so. One lawyer who attended said that creditors didn't
yet have enough financial information to ask questions. The
companies aren't required to file detailed schedules of
assets and liabilities until June 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Peterson to Head Bond-Data Network
   Planned by Group of 6 Securities Firms
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   MS SLH AXP CCI RTRSY KRI SEIC WNEWS Z.CSU SB
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- D. Bruce Peterson, former executive vice
president at SEI Corp., was named chief executive of the new
electronic network planned by six big securities firms to
distribute bond prices and other market information.
   The new joint venture is officially called EJV Partners,
but is also known on Wall Street as the Group of Six. In an
interview yesterday, Mr. Peterson, 43 years old, said the new
network will be available to customers "in about a year."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Initially, the network, to be distributed on desktop
terminals, will carry only U.S. government-securities prices
and analytical services, Mr. Peterson said. But eventually it
will carry "a wide variety" of securities prices and other
financial information, including research. How much the group
will charge and details of how the information will be
distributed haven't yet been decided.
   The six partners in EJV, which stands for Electronic Joint
Venture, are First Boston Corp., Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co., Salomon Brothers Inc., American Express Co.'s
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. subsidiary and Citibank. The
participation of Citibank, a Citicorp subsidiary, is subject
to regulatory approval.
   Mr. Peterson said "additional firms are expected" to join
later. The six partners already have invested a total of
about $25 million in the joint venture and have agreed to put
in more money as needed.
   Until now, the group has been tight-lipped. But its moves
have been watched on Wall Street because the group could
alter the landscape of the U.S. government-bond market, the
world's largest securities market with average daily trading
volume of more than $100 billion.
   Wall Street's biggest securities firms once held a tight
grip on bond-price information, which gave them a valuable
trading edge. But that has changed in recent years with the
rapid growth of several information companies. Among these
are Telerate Inc., a subsidiary of Dow Jones &amp; Co., which
publishes this newspaper; Reuters Holdings PLC, Bloomberg
Financial Markets, Citicorp's Quotron Systems Inc. and
Knight-Ridder Inc.
   Securities firms "have looked at what's happened to their
own businesses since October 1987, and they've looked at the
success of Reuters, Telerate and Bloomberg, and they've said
maybe the money is in the information business," said Andre
Villeneuve, president of Reuters America Inc. "They're
realizing that information is money."
   Reuters is one of several news organizations that already
have spoken with members of the group about distributing the
group's bond prices. "We've had discussions with individual
members of the Group of Six at a very senior level, and we've
offered to work with them in whatever appropriate way," he
said.
   Many people assumed the obvious candidate to distribute
the new service would be Quotron. But Mr. Peterson emphasized
that "no decision has been made on how we're going to
distribute the data," and that he will be talking to "all the
major companies" in the field before deciding. "There is no
reason why it couldn't be Quotron, but we're going to open
the field to all competitors," he said. He added that more
than one vendor is likely to be selected.
   Mr. Peterson envisions what he calls an "open architecture
concept," allowing other organizations to distribute their
services through the consortium's network. He also said
subscribers would be able to tailor EJV's information to
their own needs.
   Asked how long he expects it will take the group to start
making money, Mr. Peterson replied: "No sooner than three
years down the road to break even." The six partners "view
this as a long-term effort, and I am comfortable both with
their commitment to me and to the venture," he added.
   Mr. Peterson plans to hire about 15 or 20 people to serve
as the nucleus for the new organization. Mr. Peterson said
EJV has a "management board" consisting of Jon S. Corzine, a
partner at Goldman Sachs; John J. Mack, a managing director
at Morgan Stanley; Thomas W. Brock, a managing director at
Salomon Brothers; David A. Jones, chairman of Citicorp
Securities Markets Inc.; Dexter Senft, a managing director at
First Boston; and Stephen P. Gott, an executive vice
president at Shearson Lehman.
   Since 1986, Mr. Peterson has been general manager of the
information services division at SEI, a Wayne, Pa., supplier
of information, financial and evaluation services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAL Directors Meet Today to Consider
   Bid Valued at More Than $4.36 Billion
   ----
   By Judith Valente and Randall Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   The board of UAL Corp. meets today to consider a new
higher union bid for United Airlines valued at more than $200
a share, or $4.36 billion, in what could be the last chance
to stave off the start of hostilities in a proxy fight.
   Although some directors seemed inclined to approve the
labor bid, that outcome wasn't a foregone conclusion because
of stiff opposition expected from UAL Chairman Stephen M.
Wolf at today's meeting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There could be open warfare on the board," said one
person familiar with the situation. The board was due to meet
at 10:30 a.m. CDT in Chicago, UAL's headquarters city.
However, it was understood that the board's lawyers were
prepared to tell directors that there would be no legal
problem in accepting the bid.
   The group of United pilots, mechanics and flight
attendants boosted the value of its previous offer of roughly
$4 billion, or $185 a share, for a 75% stake in the airline
by adding a proposed sale of United's 50% stake in its Covia
computer reservation system.
   Some people involved with the revised bid said it could be
valued at $200 to $210 a share, or $4.36 billion to $4.58
billion, enough to meet what was believed to be the board's
minimum acceptable price of $200.
   UAL's stock rose $1.75 to $166.50 a share in composite
trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange.
   If the board rejects the revised offer, Coniston Partners,
UAL's largest shareholder with an 11.8% stake, is poised to
begin campaigning for votes to oust the directors at UAL's
annual meeting April 26. Coniston is supporting the union
buy-out effort.
   The biggest stumbling block to the board's acceptance of
the bid was said to be opposition by Mr. Wolf and directors
loyal to him. Mr. Wolf faces the likely loss of his job if
the union group can complete the acquisition. The unions have
already begun interviewing other executives as possible
replacements for Mr. Wolf, who bore the brunt of the blame
for the collapse of an earlier labor-management buy-out
effort.
   Mr. Wolf is understood to be questioning the value of
concessions the unions have promised to make to help obtain
financing for the current offer. Those concessions are said
to start at $300 million annually, with a cumulative value of
$2 billion over five years. Mr. Wolf has also criticized the
way the unions have treated the company's non-union employees
in the proposal.
   The previous union offer would give UAL shareholders $150
a share in cash, $25 a share in 15% ten-year notes, and an
equity stake in the company totaling 25%. Analysts valued
that offer at $180 to $190 a share.
   Sources confirmed a report in Investor's Daily that the
new offer incorporates the proceeds from the 50% Covia stake,
valued at $500 million or more. The directors had threatened
to try to compete with the earlier union bid by selling such
assets as Covia and paying shareholders a special dividend.
   If the board approves the offer, that could begin to bring
an end to a prolonged period of uncertainty that has gripped
the nation's second largest airline ever since the collapse
last October of a $6.79 billion, $300-a-share
labor-management bid.
   Coniston, which is supporting the union effort to acquire
the company, stepped into the picture by buying stock in the
wake of the bid's collapse after the UAL board said it wanted
the airline to remain independent. Coniston has been waging a
slow-moving campaign to reassemble a transaction ever since.
   The new proposal still faces significant uncertainties,
chiefly whether banks will be willing to make loans for an
acquisition controlled by an unwieldy trio of unions that
hasn't yet identified the executives it plans to install to
manage the airline.
   Because the unions lack the backing of an equity investor
with substantial financial resources, bankers might
reasonably wonder how they could get the unions to make
necessary changes, including pay cuts or layoffs, if the
airline encountered financial setbacks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   AT&amp;T Is Entering
   Service-Based Sector
   Of Voice Mail Market
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   T
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. is entering
the service-based voice mail market, using a system it
developed with VoiceCom Systems Inc.
   The network-based phone messaging service, called AT&amp;T
Voice Mail, is a national service that will operate
continuously using AT&amp;T 800 service and touchtone telephones.
Subscribers to the service don't purchase equipment, but
rather pay a monthly service charge and an additional
per-message fee. An installment fee of $10 per mailbox also
will be charged.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The service allows the user to create, send and receive
voice messages. The telecommunications company is targeting
businesses whose employees travel a lot or whose offices are
spread out.
   Neither of AT&amp;T's two largest long-distance competitors,
MCI Communications Corp. and US Sprint Communications Co., a
unit of United Telecommunications Inc., plans to offer such a
service. Telecom USA, Atlanta, the fourth-largest carrier,
has been offering voice mail service since 1988.
   AT&amp;T already operates in the private voice-mail market,
where customers purchase their own equipment. The company
estimates the overall market for subscription-based voice
mail ranged from $175 million to $200 million in 1989.
   The private product-based market, where companies buy
in-house systems, is estimated at about $500 million a year
by Kenneth G. Bosomworth, president of International Resource
Development, a telecommunications consulting firm.
   VoiceCom, based in San Francisco, is a provider of voice
messaging and processing services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of New England to Slash Staff
   By One-Third, Faces New Capital Woes
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Bank of New England said it will reduce its work
force by 5,600 employees, or about one-third, but the
troubled bank-holding company acknowledged that it faces
further increases in nonperforming assets and loan-loss
provisions.
   The staffing reduction, which had been expected, includes
about 1,700 layoffs. Attrition, consolidations and asset
sales will account for most of the rest, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lawrence Fish, chairman and chief executive officer, said
in an interview that executive vice presidents and senior
vice presidents were among those laid off, but he declined to
identify individuals or say precisely how many senior
officers will be let go.
   The company said personnel cutbacks, asset sales and other
measures are expected to reduce annual operating expenses by
about $300 million when fully implemented.
   But the reductions will also carry a big price tag. In its
10-K filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
company noted that severance costs and other one-time
expenses, along with "likely additions to the provision for
credit losses . . . may further deplete capital and equity in
the future." The company is under orders from federal
regulators to improve its capital ratios.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Bank
of New England's stock fell 37.5 cents, to $4.25, on volume
of 903,300 shares.
   In its filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Bank of New England said a continuing review of its loan
portfolio is expected to result in an increase in
nonperforming assets from the Dec. 31 level of $2.2 billion.
It noted that the year-end total didn't include some $1
billion of loans that were still performing at year end, "but
where borrowers, in management's opinion, were experiencing
some financial difficulty."
   The year-end allowance of $1.5 billion for possible credit
losses did include "a substantial unallocated provision to
reflect" the potential problem loans, according to the
filing. Mr. Fish declined to estimate the first-quarter
increase in nonperforming assets or loss provisions. Bank of
New England's assets currently total $25 billion.
   The SEC filing also indicated that the company's capital
plan, to be submitted to regulators by tomorrow, could
include an exchange offer for all or part of the company's
$706 million in long-term debt. Mr. Fish stressed, however,
that the initial plan would consist of a broad list of
possible measures -- not a final blueprint. He declined to
say what form a swap offer for the debt might take, although
the filing noted that such an exchange "could have a dilutive
effect on shareholders' equity."
   A small, New York-based investment banking firm that
claims to represent 40 institutional holders of about $200
million, or around 30%, of Bank of New England's long-term
debt, said it sent a letter to Mr. Fish yesterday renewing
requests for a meeting with bank officials.
   "Our group would view an attempt by {the company} to
unilaterally demand a compromise of its debt or a conversion
into common stock with a great deal of suspicion in view of
the total lack of communication {by} the company to date,"
wrote John Mueller, vice president of Whitman Heffernan Rhein
&amp; Co., according to a copy of the letter supplied by the
firm. He added, however, "Our group may be willing to make
certain sacrifices to make the company financially viable {if
we have} an opportunity to evaluate all of the alternatives."
   The letter also noted "persistent rumors that a
change-of-control transaction, possibly involving regulatory
assistance and a compromising of the debt, is being
negotiated with a West German financial institution." Bank of
New England has declined to comment on such rumors, which
have surfaced periodically since January.
   Bank of New England, in its filing, said its capital plan
may also include the sale of the company's Maine and Rhode
Island subsidiary banks. Possible sale of its large
Connecticut bank wasn't mentioned.
   The company also disclosed that one creditor, Penn Mutual
Life Insurance Co., has sued for alleged breach of covenant.
Penn Mutual, which holds a $10 million, 14% note due in 1996
from Bank of New England's BNE Massachusetts Corp.
subsidiary, has charged in U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania that Bank of New England's
asset-sales program breached a covenant concerning the sale
of assets. The lawsuit also alleges breaches of information
and other covenants, according to Bank of New England, which
said it believes it has "meritorious defenses to the claims."
   The suit seeks recovery of the $10 million in principal,
accrued interest, a $255,000 premium and expenses. Bank of
New England said payment of the note is current, with
interest having been paid when due. Principal is payable in
$1,430,000 installments on each July 15 from 1990 through
1996.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Penny-Stock Fraud
   Is the Target of Bill
   Introduced in House
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The chairman of the House finance
subcommittee introduced a bill to crack down on penny-stock
fraud and better regulate small stocks.
   The legislation, offered by Rep. Edward Markey (D.,
Mass.), would broaden the power of the Securities and
Exchange Commission to bar "crooked promoters and consultants
from the securities business."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bill also would force all penny stocks to be traded
through an automated quotation system in an effort to bolster
surveillance and information flow. The system would also help
investors get more accurate pricing of the stocks.
   The bill received immediate support from Rep. John Dingell
(D., Mich.), chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee,
who joined as a co-sponsor and called penny-stock fraud "a
national embarrassment."
   Penny-stock fraud has emerged as a critical enforcement
problem for the SEC, which has set up a task force to deal
with the issue. By one estimate, such fraud bilks investors
of $2 billion annually, though regulators haven't been able
to certify that figure.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporations'
   Bonds in Default
   Rose in Quarter
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC FEXC
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
RETAILING (RET)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar amount of corporate bonds
defaulting in the first quarter quadrupled from a year ago,
the latest indication that junk bond default rates could
reach record levels this year.
   Municipal bond defaults increased 37% in the first
quarter, but the rate for the entire year may be lower.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Those were among the findings in a report issued yesterday
by the Bond Investors Association, a bondholders organization
based in Miami Lakes, Fla.
   The report said that 13 companies defaulted on 38 bond
issues totaling $5.7 billion for the three months through
March. That's up from the $1.3 billion in defaults by nine
companies that occurred in the first quarter of 1989.
   The latest default figures included $3.5 billion of bonds
issued by companies controlled by Canada's Campeau Corp., the
retail and real estate company that operates the struggling
Allied Stores Corp. and Federated Department Stores Inc. in
the U.S.
   "In light of the first-quarter results and given the
amount of issues on the brink of default, we feel our
prediction of $15 billion in defaults for 1990 (may be)
optimistic," said Richard Lehmann, president of the Bond
Investors Association. He said more defaults are expected
from "poorly structured businesses trying to support
impossible debt loads."
   The report also measured municipal bond defaults, which
were said to have totaled $276.1 million. Mr. Lehmann said
that municipal bond defaults for the entire year, however,
could actually come in lower than last year.
   But that outlook could change depending on one
corporation: First Executive Corp., the big California
insurance company that is one of the largest holders of
high-yield junk bonds.
   First Executive, which recently reported an $835.7 million
fourth-quarter loss largely because of the dwindling value of
its junk bond portfolio, provided guaranteed investment
contracts as backing for more than $1.7 billion of municipal
bonds.
   "These bonds would be at risk should (First Executive) be
seized by the California insurance commissioner," Mr. Lehmann
said. "That could make 1990 a record year for municipal bond
defaults," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Clean Air's Politics
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   There is something a little disembodied about the $21.5
billion Clean Air bill and indeed about the politics of
environmentalism itself.
   West Virginia, for instance, has just endured a statewide
strike by its public-school teachers, who indeed don't make
much, because it simply doesn't have the money to give them a
significant pay increase. New York City, besieged with human
problems, is about to cut back its police, fire and
sanitation services because it is so hard-pressed for
revenue. School budgets around the country are routinely
being voted down by communities, forcing cancellation of
educational services for students and pitting the elderly
against young families.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yet on the day of the Clean Air vote, the President of the
United States is in Indiana, planting a tree and proclaiming
his support. Then 89 Senators, many presumably "representing"
states such as New York or Massachusetts that are engulfed
with human-resource and budget problems, enthusiastically
vote to impose the Clean Air bill's monumental costs and
requirements on their own embattled constituents. America's
wealth is indeed a great achievement, but only a nation this
rich could afford a national legislature so profligate.
   We are happy to debate with our opponents the most
appropriate way to provide for and finance a society's needs.
But we wonder if it has occurred to our friends on the left
that there may not be a debate, because the environmental
movement is consuming most of the expanding pie for itself.
Even now, for instance, environmentalist lobbyists such as
Gene Karpinski of the U.S. Public Interest Research Group are
saying this hugely expensive bill isn't enough. They want
more.
   The politics of environmentalism is a greatly
underexamined subject. For years now, environmentalism has
been a no-cost vote for America's politicians. From the
President down through the last person in Congress and out
into the state legislatures, the belief has grown that there
is simply no real political opposition to environmentalism's
costs.
   It's well established that the President and congressional
Republicans have stiffed their business allies on the Clean
Air bill. Less explored but equally apparent is that the
Democrats in Congress have also stiffed their normal
constituencies -- the poor and the working class, especially
industrial workers (and that assumes that the national
Democrats have anything more than an I-gave-at-the-office
commitment to the poor anymore).
   Small businesses are owned by and employ people loyal to
both parties. And though they are screaming that the bill's
provisions will crush many of them, they have been ignored.
(We loved the story in yesterday's Journal that described the
big dry cleaner who said the bill is good for his business
because the mom-and-pop competition will go belly up and
he'll get their work.)
   High-cost environmentalism, as we've argued before, is
essentially an upper-middle-class movement, as is much else
in national politics today. None of these thirty-something
types is going to be burdened by the Clean Air bill's costs;
none of them will stop ordering from Land's End or Eddie
Bauer catalogs. But we wonder how many of the people who call
themselves traditional Democrats, if given the chance, would
have voted for this bill. How many, for instance, would have
voted for the ethanol-gasoline provision, which alone could
raise the cost of a gallon of gas by 10 to 25 cents? Or how
many workers would have agreed, as their representatives did,
that it was a good idea to simply load a lot of the bill's
costs onto the auto industry? Car buyers, already buckling
under the costs of new cars, will pay more.
   Supporters of the bill say the public wants all this. Even
assuming that they did so in the past, we're not as certain
about the future, when so many other claims on financial
resources exist. Keep in mind, for instance, that many local
voters are learning that the huge amounts they spent to rip
out asbestos from their school systems was a pointless
environmental fiasco. It's very possible that with the $21
billion Clean Air bill (and surely that is a gross
underestimate), the politicians and environmentalists have
gone a bridge too far.
   Over the past 20 years, voters spent billions to pay for
catalytic converters, smokestack retrofits and other
effective environmental technologies. By any measure the
American environment is cleaner. Auto tailpipe emissions, for
example, are 96% cleaner than before 1970. It was a huge and,
on balance, worthwhile commitment by the public. Now, a
little more than one year into the Bush presidency, all these
people are suddenly being told that their air is so filthy
that they must pay at least $21 billion each year to do more.
   The political industry obviously thinks that this
environmental cost mandating can go on forever and that the
public will thank them for the imposition. We doubt it. The
fact that the middle-class or poorer constituencies who will
carry the weight of the costs in the Bush-Mitchell bill are
disorganized now does not mean they will remain so. Nor is it
likely that a situation will persist in which no public agent
or politician speaks up in their defense.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   National Mercantile Bancorp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MBLA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NATIONAL MERCANTILE BANCORP. (Los Angeles) -- Terry T.
Tomich resigned as president, chief executive officer and a
director because of "philosophical disagreements" with the
board, the bank holding company said. Mr. Tomich, 49 years
old, had been president and chief executive officer since
December 1982. Howard P. Ladd, the company's 68-year-old
chairman, will serve as interim chief executive until a
permanent successor is named.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chartwell, Set to Receive Two Seats
   On Avon Board, Is Said to Boost Stake
   ----
   By David B. Hilder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   AVP
</CO>
<IN>
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Chartwell Associates L.P., an investor group
that has been promised two seats on the board of Avon
Products Inc., increased its stake in Avon to more than 15%
from 10%, according to Wall Street executives.
   Chartwell, whose investors include Mary Kay Corp., the
Fisher real estate family of New York and oil heir Gordon
Getty, yesterday bought a three-million share block of Avon
stock that was assembled by Salomon Brothers Inc., the
executives said. Salomon said the shares were purchased for
$36 each, but it didn't identify the buyer or sellers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Avon shares rose on news of the block trade, closing at
$35.25 each, up $1.25 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading of 3,455,100 shares.
   Chartwell has been buying Avon shares recently, the Wall
Street executives said, and is expected to file information
with the Securities and Exchange Commission soon, indicating
that it owns an Avon stake of as much as 16%.
   Chartwell didn't buy the three-million-share block from
either of two other groups who have major stakes in Avon, the
executives said. Those groups are a partnership of
Minneapolis investor Irwin Jacobs and Amway Corp., which owns
a 9.8% stake in Avon, and the Robert M. Bass Group, which
owns a 6.2% stake.
   In total, then, at least 32% of Avon's stock would be in
the hands of aggressive shareholders who could be unhappy
with the performance of Avon's current management.
   A spokeswoman for Chartwell declined to comment, as did
spokesmen for Avon and the Bass Group.
   Mr. Jacobs, in a brief interview, said the partnership
with Amway, which he controls, wasn't a buyer or seller in
the three-million-share block trade yesterday. He said he is
"watching with great interest" the developments at Avon.
   Takeover-stock traders said that Chartwell's increased
stake could give the partnership more leverage when its two
representatives join Avon's board after the company's May 3
annual meeting.
   Avon agreed to nominate the two Chartwell representatives
in return for Chartwell's agreement to drop its proxy fight.
Avon also agreed to form a committee of directors to explore
ways to maximize shareholder value. The committee will be
advised by John Rochon, a member of the Chartwell group who
has also agreed to resign as vice chairman of Mary Kay.
   The purchase of additional Avon stock, which cost $108
million, "shows that much more desire on the part of
Chartwell to make something positive happen," said one
takeover professional. Chartwell previously spent $192.9
million to buy its 10.1% stake in Avon.
   Takeover stock traders said the purchase by Chartwell also
indicated that Chartwell wanted to increase its bet on Avon's
stock before its trading activities become more restricted by
the presence of its representatives on Avon's board. Under
insider-trading laws, Chartwell could be restricted from
buying or selling Avon shares for certain periods of time, if
its representatives become aware of material information
about Avon before it is released to the public.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hate-Crime Statistics Bill
   Is Sent to Bush for Signing
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House gave final congressional approval
to a bill that would require the Justice Department for the
first time to collect and publish statistics on so-called
hate crimes.
   The measure, passed 402-18, now goes to President Bush,
who is expected to sign it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hate crimes are those motivated by prejudice based on a
victim's race, religion, national origin or sexual
orientation. Despite increased federal investigation and
prosecution of such crimes, they have persisted in recent
years and may have even increased, according to surveys
conducted by various private organizations.
   "Many would say the problem has escalated," said Rep.
Barbara Kennelly (D., Conn.), a leading sponsor of the
legislation. The bill would require the Justice Department to
collect hate crime statistics and publish them annually so
that federal, state and local law-enforcement officials can
measure trends and deploy resources more effectively.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Stock Funds Outstripped Market
   In 1st Quarter, but Still Fell 2.31%
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The good news is, the average stock fund beat
the market for the first time in two years.
   The bad news is, the average fund investor still lost
money.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Basically, everything got hammered" in the first quarter,
says Kurt Brouwer, a San Francisco fund analyst. "There
haven't been many times in the last 15 or 20 years when
everything went down. Bonds were down, global funds were
down, equity funds were down, gold was down. There was
nowhere to run."
   The disappointing quarter left stock funds ahead 13.33%
for the 12 months through March.
   Only two fund categories, science and technology funds and
Europe funds, posted gains in the latest quarterly rankings
compiled by Lipper Analytical Services Inc. All other fund
groups were unprofitable.
   Overall, general equity funds lost an average of 2.31%,
slightly better for investors than the loss of 3.01% for the
Standard &amp; Poor's 500 stock market index. Lipper's figures
are total returns -- price changes plus dividends.
   "The 1980s were something of a binge," says A. Michael
Lipper, president of Lipper Analytical. "If this is the
extent of the revenge, I'll take it. There are two ways you
can correct enthusiasm; one is a hard landing, the other is a
soft correction."
   So far, says Mr. Lipper, all the signs point to the less
drastic "soft" setback. This period was the second
consecutive quarter of very slight losses by stock funds; in
the fourth quarter of 1989, the funds were down 1.2%.
   The averages disguise the big hit taken by funds
specializing in the Pacific region, which were knocked down
more than 13%. Merrill Pacific and Scudder's Japan Fund,
which have some of the industry's best 10-year records, were
among the quarter's biggest losers.
   Also hard hit were the high-yield, junk-bond funds, which
now account for 16 of the past year's 25 worst performing
funds. Battered junk funds dragged down the average for all
longer-term, taxable bond funds, which lost 1.4% in the
quarter. But in March, says Mr. Lipper, some junk funds did
post gains.
   Roger McNamee, who runs the T. Rowe Price Science &amp;
Technology Fund, was one of the few fund managers with
anything to cheer about. His fund posted a gain of almost 5%,
driven, he says, by a rebound in small companies generally,
and technology stocks in particular.
   "In our area, we've gone through a seven-year period when
smaller stocks, and especially small growth stocks, have
consistently underperformed the market," says Mr. McNamee.
"In the process, valuations have become very reasonable. You
can tell that in our business, because it's become easier to
find good ideas."
   Small company funds lost 1.39% in the quarter, the
smallest loss for any category of general equity fund. But,
warns Mr. Lipper, "the overall numbers are small, and these
distinctions may not be meaningful."
   A star mutual fund manager isn't identified solely by good
long-term performance. Strength in a weak market is also a
key attribute. Gintel Fund and Brandywine Fund, two of the
industry's better-known stock funds, looked good on that
score.
   Brandywine, managed by Foster Friess, was up almost 6% in
the quarter, driven by technology holdings and by big
positions in L.A. Gear Inc. and Nike Inc., which both posted
strong earnings gains.
   Robert Gintel, manager of the Gintel Fund, has tended to
concentrate his fund in just a few stocks. The fund's largest
position, at 23% of assets, is Deere &amp; Co., whose shares
posted an 18% gain in the quarter. The fund's second-largest
position, Phelps Dodge, was up 3%. Those two gains, plus a
25% cash position, helped the fund to a 5% gain in the
period.
   The U.S.'s largest stock fund, Fidelity Magellan, beat the
average stock fund, though the fund posted a loss of 2.1%.
The news for other large, well-known funds was more
disappointing. John Neff's Windsor Fund and Michael Price's
Mutual Shares, both of which tend to do well in down markets,
saw their sluggish 1989 performance continue into this year's
first quarter.
   ---
                    Markets by the Slice
                                                                                                       

                                            TOTAL RETURN
                                          FIRST    3/31/89-
 FUND CATEGORY                          QUARTER    3/31/90
                                                                                                       

 Science and Technology                  +2.68%     +19.93%
 European Region*                        +0.82      +22.37
 Natural Resources                       -1.13      +20.29
 Small Company Growth                    -1.39      +12.11
 Fixed Income                            -1.40      + 6.70
 Convertible Securities                  -1.41      + 6.62
 World Income                            -1.54      + 5.65

 Flexible Portfolio                      -1.91      +11.01
 Health/Biotechnology                    -2.04      +25.09
 Specialty/Miscellaneous                 -2.11      +12.80
 Mixed Income                            -2.11      + 8.14
 Capital Appreciation                    -2.26      +12.78
 Balanced                                -2.29      +11.85
 Growth                                  -2.31      +14.52
 Growth and Income                       -2.50      +13.15
 Global Flexible Portfolio               -2.50      +10.10
 Equity Income                           -3.09      +11.68
 Real Estate*                            -3.23      + 0.58
 Income                                  -3.53      + 7.39
 Global                                  -4.97      +11.22
 Utility                                 -5.09      +19.79
                                                                                                       

 Average General
 Equity Funds                            -2.31%     +13.33%
                                                                                                       

 Standard &amp; Poor's
 500 (with dividends)                    -3.01%     +19/23
                                                                                                       

   *New fund category
   Source: Lipper Analytical Services Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wednesday's Markets:
   Bonds Surge
   As Tokyo
   Rumors Fly
   ---
   Fears of Troubles
   Facing Big Investor
   In Japan Are Cited
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Rumors that a big Tokyo stock-market player was in
financial trouble sent investors scurrying to the safety of
U.S. Treasury bonds.
   Long-term Treasury-bond prices ended up more than one
point, or more than $10 for each $1,000 of face amount, after
having climbed 1 3/4 points as the unconfirmed rumors spread
in midafternoon New York trading. The rumors sent the Dow
Jones Industrial Average into a mild decline. The average
fell 17.34 points to 2719.37 in moderate trading. The dollar
was mixed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The rumors about the inability of a big institutional
investor to raise cash to support stock positions bought on
credit came as worries intensified about the effects of
further declines in the Tokyo stock market. Although U.S.
investors have managed to shrug off the Tokyo market's slump,
they are edgy about how the mounting financial troubles in
Japan will be resolved.
   Speculation among stock traders was that the Nikkei Index
of 225 stocks could plunge between 1000 and 3000 points, or
more than 10%, if a big Japanese institutional investor
really is in trouble. The pace of selling in Japan hasn't yet
taken on panic proportions-volume has been relatively
light-but a financial crisis among one of the big market
players could change that, especially among individual
investors who are being asked to put up more money for stocks
they bought on credit.
   The rally in bond prices surprised many traders who looked
for a quiet day leading up to the Treasury Department's
disclosure of the size of Resolution Funding Corp.'s 40-year
bond auction next week. The decision to offer $3.5 billion in
40-year bonds relieved traders who were worried that the
Treasury would attempt another $5 billion bond sale, like the
one in January that resulted in a two-point drop in long-term
Treasury bond prices.
   Bond investors also were holding back waiting for Friday's
government report on employment, a key economic indicator.
Economists expect the report to show that 160,000 to 180,000
jobs were created last month. While investors initially
viewed that many new jobs as indicative of a strengthening
economy, which would be bearish for bond prices, opinion has
shifted to essentially neutral.
   Currency traders said the dollar's modest retreat against
the yen doesn't indicate a peak has been reached. Instead,
they said traders are waiting for the results of this
weekend's meeting of the Group of Seven major industrial
nations.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices slumped in moderate trading. Volume on the
New York Stock Exchange totaled 159.5 million shares.
Declining issues on the Big Board were ahead of gainers 918
to 596.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices rallied. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year issue slid to 8.51%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late afternoon New York trading
the currency was at 1.6995 marks and 158.95 yen compared with
1.6979 marks and 159.79 yen Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Postpones the Launch
   Of Pegasus Winged Rocket
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   ORBI
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Pentagon postponed until today at 3:07
p.m. EDT, the maiden launch of the Pegasus winged rocket. The
launch, which had been scheduled for yesterday, was scrapped
because of cloudy weather. Pegasus managers were concerned
that flying the rocket through clouds could inadvertently set
off a spark that would ignite the rocket.
   Pegasus, built by privately held Orbital Sciences Corp. of
Fairfax, Va., is the first U.S. rocket launcher developed
since the space shuttle. The crewless rocket is dropped from
the wing of a B-52 over the Pacific Ocean and is supposed to
vault into space carrying two small, government-owned
satellites.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Finnish Jobless Rate
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   HELSINKI, Finland -- Finland's unemployment rate rose to
3.6% of the labor force in January from 3.3% in December, but
was down from 4.8% in January 1989, the Central Bureau of
Statistics announced.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Wheat Futures Surge Amid Reports Irwin Jacobs
   Owns Half of Chicago Board of Trade's Stockpile
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Wheat futures prices leapt amid reports that
Minneapolis investor Irwin Jacobs owns roughly half of the
wheat stockpile that is available to satisfy futures
contracts at the Chicago Board of Trade.
   But most traders don't think that Mr. Jacobs, who reaped
big profits in the 1980s with astute takeover attempts, wants
to be a heavy hitter in the wheat pit, or any commodity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The way Mr. Jacobs describes it he became the owner of
about 800,000 bushels of soft red winter wheat through a
fling that irritated Board of Trade officials and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. About 1.7 million
bushels of wheat are stored in Board of Trade-approved
warehouses in Chicago and Toledo.
   In an interview yesterday Mr. Jacobs said he no longer
holds any wheat futures contracts and hasn't any plans to get
in the market again.
   "I am quite turned off on it," Mr. Jacobs said. "I'd be
better off in Las Vegas."
   In trading yesterday at the Chicago Board of Trade, the
wheat contract for May delivery jumped 8.25 cents a bushel to
settle at $3.6975 a bushel.
   The rally was also fanned by speculation that subfreezing
temperatures this weekend might dip into the central U.S.
where winter wheat has emerged from dormancy and is
vulnerable to cold weather.
   Mr. Jacobs's disclosure is highly unusual. Commodity
investors are usually loath to disclose their futures
positions. But Mr. Jacobs is angry at what he said was
pressure by the Board of Trade and federal regulators to
reduce a large position he had in the March wheat contract.
   Mr. Jacobs said he decided to speculate on wheat prices in
February amid widespread reports that two years of drought
had cut the U.S. wheat supply to its tightest level in two
decades.
   Mr. Jacobs, whose only experience with farm commodities
was with oats during the 1988 drought, bought contracts for
delivery in March of three million bushels of soft red winter
wheat -- the maximum position any speculator is allowed to
acquire under Board of Trade rules.
   As the March contract neared expiration, the CFTC and
Board of Trade began putting pressure on him to reduce his
ownership, Mr. Jacobs said. Mr. Jacobs said he ended up
selling contracts covering 2.2 million bushels and taking
delivery of the rest of the wheat.
   A Board of Trade spokesman wouldn't comment and a CFTC
spokesman couldn't immediately be reached for comment.
   However, the Board of Trade has taken the position in the
past that it has the power to compel big traders to close out
positions in order to ensure orderly expiration of a
contract.
   Last July, the Board of Trade ordered Italian conglomerate
Ferruzzi Finanziaria S.p.A. to sell off its soybean holdings
to avert what it saw as possible squeeze attempt.
   The Board of Trade clearly didn't take any formal action
against Mr. Jacobs. Such moves are rare. Board officials
prefer to jawbone traders into reducing large positions in a
contract as it nears expiration in part because they want to
avoid any outward appearance that prices aren't settled
smoothly.
   The problem is that there isn't any widely understood
definition of orderly liquidation. According to wheat
traders, prices might have gyrated if anyone had tried to
take delivery of three million bushels of wheat in March. The
traders who were obligated to deliver the wheat wouldn't have
found enough in convenient locations. The Board of Trade
tries to avoid such a situation for fear traders might
default on their obligations.
   Mr. Jacobs said he wasn't trying to squeeze the wheat
market. There had been rumors for several weeks that someone
might attempt to squeeze the March wheat contract. However,
the March contract is particularly prone to such speculation.
In March, the world supplies of wheat are at the lowest level
before the first crop of the U.S. season begins to be
harvested in late May.
   It isn't clear how Mr. Jacobs fared financially on his
position. He said he made a profit. But traders were
speculating yesterday that he is probably losing money on the
800,000 bushels of wheat he holds and that his disclosure
might help find buyers for it.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Futures prices of crude oil plunged on evidence of
increasing supplies. In early trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, West Texas Intermediate crude for May
delivery broke through the psychologically important level of
$20 a barrel. It then settled at $19.78 a barrel, down 52
cents and near the day's low. The June crude contract
declined 45 cents to $20.18. Oil traders and analysts cited
yesterday's Wall Street Journal article on the continuing
rise in crude production by the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries as well as the latest industry statistics
on U.S. oil inventories. The American Petroleum Institute had
reported late Tuesday that U.S. crude oil inventories were up
more than four million barrels at the end of last week.
Traders had expected last week's big drawdown in gasoline
inventories to provide new support for fuel futures. But
unleaded gasoline for May delivery fell 1.02 cents a gallon
to settle at 64.86 cents. The May heating oil contract
dropped 1.48 cents a gallon to 54.02 cents. In other fuels,
natural gas futures were mixed in the second day of trading
of the new contract. The June contract settled at $1.62 a
million British thermal unit, down 1.5 cents.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: For the second time this week futures prices fell
in response to a report that a strike had ended. The May
contract ended with a loss of 4.7 cents a pound at $1.2015,
which was just above the low of the day. On Monday, a wildcat
strike ended at the Highland Valley Mine in Canada.
Yesterday, it was reported from Peru that the 25-day-old
strike by miners and smelter workers of Southern Peru Copper
Corp. had been ended by the union even though it hadn't
reached formal agreement on a new pact with management.
Analysts said that, according to news service reports, the
union took its action because the Peruvian minister of labor
and the union had agreed in principle to an inflation clause
on wages and a 100% wage increase. It wasn't known whether
employees had returned to work or whether they will continue
to work while negotiations between the union and management
continue, analysts said. Southern Peru Copper last year
produced 230,000 tons of refined copper. On that basis, one
metals dealer estimated, the three-week strike caused
production to be reduced by 20,000 tons of copper. Peru is
the world's sixth-largest copper producer.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Silver became the market leader, rising
sharply, while gold and platinum posted more moderate gains.
May delivery silver rose 15.2 cents an ounce to $5.19. June
gold was up $1.70 an ounce at $381.80, and July platinum
advanced $5.20 an ounce to $488.20. Analysts and metals
dealers said there were no fundamental developments to
account for a spurt of demand for silver contracts. They said
May silver was buoyed by demand from computer-guided funds,
which increased their purchases when the price rose above
$5.10. A report circulated that a Japanese financial concern,
perhaps a brokerage company, might have severe credit
problems because of the tumbling Tokyo stock market, analysts
and traders said. But they conceded being at a loss to
explain why this rumor should boost silver prices. James
Kneafsey, president of Cambridge Financial Management of
Cambridge, Mass., ventured that silver was the precious metal
"in a most bullish position to take advantage of any
development." May silver, he noted, dropped nine cents an
ounce to just below $5 on March 26, in sympathy with gold's
plunge on a reported large gold sale by Saudi Arabia. For the
rest of that week and on Monday of this week silver didn't
fall further but continued to trade around that level. "This
was regarded as a very good performance for silver and
possibly the bottom of a selling pattern that had exhausted
itself," said Mr. Kneafsey. This technical interpretation
apparently attracted demand on Tuesday and the May silver
rose above $5, closing at $5.0380. This move may have been
considered by technically minded traders "as a breakout,"
which in turn stimulated yesterday's buying, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Circle K Signs
   Tentative Pact
   With Creditors
   ---
   Seven-Month Moratorium
   On Debt Is Arranged;
   Eller Left Unmentioned
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CKP AFINP CHR
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, SUPERMARKETS AND DRUGSTORES (RFD)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Circle K Corp. won some breathing room in its fight to
stave off bankruptcy proceedings and remain a viable
convenience-store chain.
   In an announcement late last night, the company said it
signed a preliminary accord with senior creditors and its
largest shareholder for a seven-month moratorium on debt and
interest payments, narrowly averting default on part of its
debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The accord is subject to a definitive agreement. Circle K,
an operator of convenience stores throughout the Southwest,
had said it was considering filing for protection from
creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code.
   Circle K Chairman Karl Eller, the energetic entrepreneur
under whose leadership the Phoenix, Ariz., company mushroomed
from a midsize regional concern to one of the largest
convenience-store operators in the nation, wasn't mentioned
in the three-page news release announcing the agreement.
However, outside directors have said that he wasn't part of
the negotiating team seeking to restructure much of the
company's more than $1 billion in long-term debt.
   "Mr. Eller is still with the company and there hasn't been
any discussion of Mr. Eller leaving the company," a spokesman
said. He declined to comment on terms of the agreement.
   The agreement is among the company's banks, a steering
committee for holders of its $200 million in senior secured
notes, and American Financial Corp., the company's largest
shareholder with a 38% stake and a substantial creditor.
American Financial is controlled by Cincinnati financier Carl
Lindner, a longtime business associate of Mr. Eller's.
   The provisional pact is conditional on all sides signing a
definitive standstill agreement that would hold through the
earlier of Oct. 31 or completion of financial rearrangements.
   During the waiting period, the banks, noteholders, and
American Financial would defer all principal and interest
payments and would waive any existing defaults under current
loan agreements.
   The prospective accord appears to hand considerable power
to the banks, which would exercise a veto right on all
interest payments on Circle K's $510 million of subordinated
debt.
   The standstill agreement would require that by the end of
October Circle K acquire at least 90% of its subordinated
debt. It wasn't clear what action might be taken by holders
of these securities, which include 7.25% convertible
subordinated debentures due 2006; 8.25% converitible
subordinated debentures due 2005, 12.75% senior subordinated
debentures due 1997; and 13% junior subordinated debentures
due 1997. Certain private indebtedness is also included in
this class.
   Circle K stock closed yesterday at $1.25 a share, down
12.5 cents, in composite New York Stock Exchange trading.
   The company said terms of its offer to subordinated
holders hasn't been determined. It hinted at an exchange of
stock for subordinated debt and said a registration statement
is expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission before May 15.
   Meanwhile, Circle K said it believes it has sufficient
funds to meet trade obligations during the standstill period.
   It said parties to the agreement plan to execute new
long-term financial arrangements.
   As part of the pact, Circle K said it has agreed in
principle to sell Circle K's New England Petroleum
Distributor operations for $26 million to Charter Co., a
51%-owned subsidiary of American Financial. The transaction
is tentatively scheduled to close April 12, subject to
certain conditions.
   The company said it is being advised by Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets on financial arrangements.
   Circle K, from a relatively sleepy chain of 1,300 stores
in 1983, exploded under Mr. Eller's management to 4,700
outlets at the end of last year. Growth came through a steady
diet of high-yield debt.
   Mr. Eller's preoccupation with expansion, however,
apparently wasn't matched by an ability to mind the stores,
and a host of problems arose in recent years. Mr. Eller's
hopes apparently were unhampered, and he put the company on
the block last year, betting Circle K would fetch a fancy
price. It didn't, and losses soon cropped up.
   The company late last month reported a $28.1 million loss
for the third quarter ended Jan. 31 on revenue of $872.5
million.
   At that time, Circle K said it was in technical violation
of convenants on bank debt, adding that the non-compliance
was waived for a period ending this Friday, when a $60
million portion of the about $340 million in bank debt
matures.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Upjohn Co.:
   Clearance Is Set to Market
   Regaine to Women in U.K.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UPJ EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Upjohn Co. said it received approval from the United
Kingdom department of health to market Regaine Topical
Solution in the U.K. to women with thinning hair.
   Regaine is called Rogaine in the U.S. and has been sold in
the U.S. as a prescription-only anti-baldness drug for men
since October 1988. Upjohn, of Kalamazoo, Mich., last
September asked the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for
approval to market Rogaine to women in the U.S. and is still
awaiting a decision.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rogaine, a 2% solution of minoxidil, is currently
available for men in 63 countries and for women in 20.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Georgia-Pacific Land Gift
   Is Studied by Grand Jury
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GP
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE, REITS, LAND DEVELOPMENT (REL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- A federal grand jury is investigating whether
Georgia-Pacific Corp. inflated for tax purposes the value of
Florida swampland that it donated to a state water management
agency in 1984, a grand jury witness said.
   A spokeswoman for Georgia-Pacific, an Atlanta-based
forest-products concern, declined to comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   John Flanagan, deputy assistant executive director of the
Suwannee River Water Management District, in Live Oak, Fla.,
said he and another agency member appeared under subpoena
before a grand jury in Atlanta March 13.
   Mr. Flanagan said Martin Weinstein, an assistant U.S.
attorney, inquired about the circumstances under which
Georgia-Pacific donated 5,400 acres of land to the water
management district, a conservation and management agency, in
1984. He said the grand jury also subpoenaed the agency's
records related to Georgia-Pacific's donation of the Santa Fe
Swamp tract, which is north of Little Santa Fe Lake in
Bradford County.
   Mr. Flanagan said the U.S. attorney is focusing on a $24
million tax deduction that Georgia-Pacific took as a result
of the donation. Georgia-Pacific reportedly purchased the
land in 1981 for $1.9 million. Prosecutors couldn't be
reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Greenspan Urges Lowering
   Of Capital Costs for Banks
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The most important thing the government can
do to increase the international competitiveness of U.S.
banks is to reduce their cost of capital, Federal Reserve
Board Chairman Alan Greenspan said.
   Testifying before a House Banking Committee task force on
international competitiveness, Mr. Greenspan also urged once
again that Congress lift restrictions on the ability of banks
to deal in securities and engage in other nonbanking
activities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Fed chairman also repeated a call to repeal
legislation restricting the ability of banks to operate
across state lines.
   "There is reason to believe that the opportunity for a
bank to diversify the products or services it offers or to
diversify geographically may in some cases raise its rate of
return and lower its risk," he said.
   Most other countries, but not Japan, allow banks to engage
in a broad range of financial activities. Mr. Greenspan has
been arguing for some time that the U.S. should do the same
in order to compete internationally.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Colombia Inflation Index
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   BOGOTA, Colombia -- Colombia's inflation index increased
2.89% in March and climbed a total of 10.7% for the first
quarter of the year, according to the National Department of
Statistics.
   The price increases were above those anticipated by the
government, which hopes to obtain an inflation index below
the 26% registered in 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The largest price increases in March were posted in health
services, including medication.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of America Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BAC U.LLO F.CNC EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- BankAmerica Corp.'s Bank of America
subsidiary said it was awarded a contract from Severn River
Crossing Ltd. to arrange $865 million for a bridge project in
the U.K.
   Bank of America said it is lead underwriter for the
financing, which involves bank debt jointly underwritten by
Lloyds Bank PLC of Britain and Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole of France. Proceeds will be used to construct a
second bridge across the Severn river, and to refinance
current debt on the existing bridge. The new bridge will link
Avon in the west of England to Gwent in Wales, and will
become part of Britain's M4 motorway.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Severn River Crossing was established to hold a 30-year
concession to design and build the new bridge, and operate it
along with the new bridge.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Sets the Sale
   Of Seven-Year Notes
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $2.68 billion in
new cash with the sale Wednesday of about $7.5 billion in
seven-year notes to redeem $4.83 billion in maturing notes.
   The new notes will mature April 15, 1997.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the notes, available in minimum $1,000
denominations, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Wednesday at
the Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   You Can Slice It, Dice It or Ice It,
   But to Some It'll Still Be the Pits
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MARKETING, ADVERTISING (MKT)
</IN>
<LP>
   President Bush has raised a ruckus over his dislike for
broccoli. If he feels the same way about watermelon, he'd
better keep quiet.
   Watermelon growers are already in such a lather over what
they think is an unfair reputation for their hefty fruit that
they've mounted a campaign to improve its image.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's not that they taste bad," says C.M. Buddy Leger,
president of the newly formed National Watermelon Board. "We
have fallen down on the job and not promoted our product."
The growers assert that it's the negative image, not the
product, that has led to a 41% decline in watermelon
consumption since 1960.
   "Watermelons have a low profile," agrees Jeff Manning,
senior vice president of Ketchum Advertising U.S. in San
Francisco, which has developed promotional campaigns for such
competitors as bananas, strawberries and prunes.
   Undaunted and ready to fight back, the growers have hired
the Seattle advertising agency of Evans/Kraft to give their
fruit a new look.
   It won't be easy.
   For starters, promotional dollars are limited. Funds for
the campaign will be collected by charging both growers and
distributors two cents per hundredweight of watermelon sold.
That will bring in about $1 million the first year.
   Then, too, there's the sheer size and weight of the big
melons. Retailers don't give them the display they deserve,
growers complain. Consumers, meanwhile, disdain lugging the
heavy things home.
   And don't forget those pesky pits.
   Still, watermelon growers figure that if other fruits and
vegetables can overcome the public's disdain, theirs can,
too. "Potatoes were perceived as fattening. It took us 10
years to overcome that," Mr. Manning says.
   Prunes, too, have done an about-face. "People used to
giggle," he says. "Now it's seen as a source of fiber, and
that gave us credibility."
   So his advice is to widen the fruit's following outside
Fourth of July picnics. "The perception is that you eat it
when it's 90 degrees and you're sitting by a lake," Mr.
Manning says.
   Still the easiest way to the top of the fruit basket could
be to follow the lead of the California raisins: Hire a
choreographer and rent some spiffy costumes. "That would be
nice for watermelons," says Mr. Leger. "But we can't afford
that."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Consolidated Rail Corp.:
   Track-Service Union Barred
   By Court From Any Strike
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   CRR LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TRANSPORTATION, TRUCK AND SHIP LINES, RAILROADS (TRA)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Consolidated Rail Corp. said it received a permanent
injunction, barring the Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way
Employees from striking the freight railroad.
   Philadelphia-based Conrail said a federal court in
Pennsylvania ruled that current talks on a new labor contract
conformed with the Railway Labor Act and that the threatened
strike violated a provision of the law.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The union represents 6,000 employees who maintain
Conrail's tracks. Jeff Zeh, international president of the
Detroit-based union, said that "obviously we're
disappointed."
   Mr. Zeh objected to what he called "the slow pace" of the
negotiations, and he said that Conrail's plan to restructure
-- including a stock buy-back, an employee stock ownership
plan, and work-force cuts -- would hurt the union.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Two Big Securities Firms
   Raised Top Salaries in '89
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   PWJ MS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- There is one place you won't find signs of
Wall Street's recession: in the executive suites of some big
securities firms.
   Three top executives at Morgan Stanley Group Inc. received
24% pay increases with salaries exceeding $5 million last
year, the firm's proxy material shows. Chairman S. Parker
Gilbert, President Richard B. Fisher and Vice Chairman Robert
F. Greenhill all received cash compensation of $5.5 million,
up from $4.4 million in 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Managing directors Lewis W. Bernard and John J. Mack also
received 16% pay raises in 1989, to $3.7 million, the proxy
material shows.
   At PaineWebber Group Inc., Chairman Donald B. Marron
received a 64% pay raise, to $2.1 million in 1989. Donald E.
Nickelson -- PaineWebber president until his retirement in
January -- and Paul B. Guenther, presidents of an operating
division, both received $1.1 million last year, raises of 39%
and 72%, respectively.
   Morgan and PaineWebber declined comment.
   These two concerns thrived last year as other investment
banks on Wall Street wilted. Morgan, with a 12% rise in
earnings, posted net income of $443 million last year -- the
second highest on Wall Street after Salomon Inc.
PaineWebber's 1989 net income surged 23%, to $52 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Casual Male Corp.:
   Creditor Protection Sought
   Under the Bankruptcy Code
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   CMLE
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Casual Male Corp., citing a troubled menswear retail
market, said it filed for protection from its creditors under
Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code.
   Earlier, Casual Male reported that efforts to sell the
Shrewsbury, Mass., company hadn't been successful and that it
will probably report a loss of more than $6 million for its
fiscal year ended Jan. 27.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The clothing retailer said that "significant" competition
from discount retailers and costs associated with an
aggressive store-expansion program were the principal factors
contributing to its problems. Casual Male opened more than
100 stores last year and currently operates more than 335
units.
   In January, Casual Male said it arranged a $14.5 million
credit facility with Shawmut National Bank that is secured by
inventory and equipment. Last month, the company also
arranged for an unsecured loan of $2.3 million from certain
major stockholders.
   Casual Male will continue to operate under court
protection from creditors while it restructures and
reorganizes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Banca Nazionale del Lavoro:
   An Annual Group Net Loss
   Of $192.1 Million Is Posted
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP I.BNL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, Italy's largest, state-owned
commercial bank, posted a consolidated net loss of 240
billion lire ($192.1 million) in 1989.
   Milan-based BNL, which emerged last autumn at the center
of a major financial scandal involving its Atlanta branch and
some $3 billion of irregular loans to Iraq, said the losses
reflected the plunge in profit announced recently by its
parent bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The parent bank reported a loss of 498 billion lire in
1989, compared with profit of 105 billion lire a year
earlier. BNL attributed the losses to a major cleanup of its
balance sheet following the scandal.
   The 1989 consolidated loss "significantly absorbs the 498
billion-lire loss posted by the parent bank," BNL said in a
statement.
   BNL also reported that consolidated gross profit, net of
extraordinary items, rose 31% to 1.058 trillion lire last
year from 807 billion lire in 1988. BNL's directors also
proposed a total of 778 billion lire be allocated for risk
funds, against 390 billion lire in 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   G-7 Expected to Try to Shore Up the Yen,
   Improve Economic Policy Coordination
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Group of Seven industrial nations gather
in Paris Saturday to try to improve economic policy
coordination and shore up the yen to help settle Japan's
turbulent financial markets.
   In an effort to bolster the weakening Japanese currency,
the U.S. and its G-7 partners are widely expected to issue a
joint statement expressing support for greater stability in
Japanese markets, and for further intervention in
foreign-exchange markets. But some analysts question whether
such moves would be effective and may prefer to let the yen's
decline run its course.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The meeting in Paris takes on urgency in the wake of the
turmoil in Japan. The Nikkei Index of 225 leading stocks has
fallen 27% this year, the Japanese discount rate has risen
1.5 points since mid-December to 5.25%, and the yen has
declined about 11% against the U.S. dollar.
   In a briefing with reporters this week, a senior Treasury
official characterized the Paris gathering as "primarily an
economic surveillance meeting." He stressed that such
meetings are held yearly, and indicated that it might not
even produce a joint statement. But he also said that "the
depreciation of the yen against the dollar and the European
currencies will clearly be issues of interest."
   The faltering yen doesn't bode well for Japan's attempts
to reduce its big export surplus, this official said. "I
think the present exchange-rate situation in Japan must be a
matter of concern for Japan if it persists, because it'll
tend to contribute to export-led growth." Japan is trying to
reduce its trade surplus, but a falling yen tends to help
exports by making them relatively cheaper overseas.
   "The pressure is obviously going to be on the Japanese for
their currency," said Jim Fralick, a principal and chief
economist at Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. He also said there is a
"sword of intervention that's hanging over the market" in the
days leading up to the Paris meeting, the first gathering of
the G-7 since September. The G-7 consists of the U.S., Japan,
West Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada.
   But analysts are divided over whether intervention and
statements may be accompanied by coordinated moves on
interest rates, particularly a rise in Japan's discount rate.
"The logic is in favor of a yen-stabilization package," and
"one not just based on a rise in Japanese rates," said Robert
Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.'s international
unit. A rise in the discount rate, which the central bank
charges on loans to financial institutions, would generally
boost Japanese interest rates and would be expected to
increase the demand for yen.
   Mr. Fralick, though, doesn't expect any interest-rate
moves, particularly after the Treasury this year failed to
persuade the Federal Reserve to cut U.S. interest rates.
"Intervention," he said, is "the only thing they're left
with."
   Another isolated rise in Japanese interest rates is
entirely possible -- and may be desirable. "One of the key
problems of economic management in Japan is the explosion of
the money supply, which has gone far beyond what anyone
thought was necessary, and helped grease the explosion in
asset prices" said Rimmer de Vries, chief economist at Morgan
Guaranty Trust Co.
   Whatever measures are adopted, there could be trade-offs
between the G-7 talks and current talks -- aimed at removing
so-called structural obstacles to the bilateral economic
relationship -- taking place here between the U.S. and Japan.
   Earlier this week, the Treasury official also said the G-7
meeting would review developments in Eastern Europe, German
reunification issues and world exchange rates. The
participants also will deal with the International Monetary
Fund's capital increase and "certain debt issues," he added.
   The planned European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, which will lend to emerging democracies in
Eastern Europe, also will be discussed at the G-7 meeting. It
also will be the focus of further multilateral meetings in
Paris to be held Sunday and Monday, where the U.S. will be
represented by David Mulford, the Treasury undersecretary for
international affairs.
   Some economists, though, are skeptical that the G-7 can do
much to stop the yen's slide. As in June last year, when the
economic powers essentially decided to let the surging dollar
run its course, the G-7 may well decide it has little choice
but to let the yen move downward.
   "The markets are coming to the conclusion that {the G-7
is} not going to do very much, but there's some
understandable caution about setting up aggressive short
positions," said Robin Marshall, chief economist with Chase
Investment Bank Ltd. Mr. Marshall doubts whether the G-7 will
agree to mount a huge yen-buying campaign to prop up the
sagging currency. The West German central bank "isn't
prepared to go in on behalf of the Bank of Japan," he said.
"And for the moment, the reunification issue has really
sidetracked the Germans."
   ---
   Tim Carrington in London contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   E-Systems' Auditor
   Notes Federal Inquiry
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ESY
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- E-Systems Inc. said its auditor noted in its
opinion of the company's financial statements that it
couldn't determine the potential financial impact of a U.S.
government investigation into whether E-Systems violated
procurement regulations.
   The explanatory paragraph included in Ernst &amp; Young's
letter to shareholders and directors marked the first time
that the auditor has raised the issue in its opinion, even
though the dispute with the U.S. Army dates back to 1985.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In its annual report, E-Systems said it hasn't taken any
provisions for liability or loss related to the litigation
and can't determine the outcome of the matter. However, it
said that it considers potential charges as "extremely
serious" and that an indictment could lead the government to
suspend or debar the company and its subsidiaries from
receiving new federal contracts.
   According to the company's financial statements, the Army
terminated two contracts, valued at $19 million, on Dec. 31,
1985, saying the concern defaulted on its agreement to build
military tactical radios. E-Systems appealed the termination
and sought $13 million in claims in a case that was to be
tried in March 1988.
   However, in February 1988, the government told E-Systems
that it was beginning a criminal investigation into whether
the company violated procurement regulations at its Memcor
division. The division has since been discontinued.
   The government hasn't filed any formal allegations or
indictments against the company. But E-Systems said that in
January of this year, a former first-line supervisor of the
company who had given a deposition at the Army's request in
the civil case was convicted of three counts of perjury and
one count of obstruction of justice. E-Systems said the
former employee wasn't a witness for the company, but her
conviction "may have adverse implications for the successful
prosecution" of its civil case.
   An E-Systems spokesman wouldn't elaborate, saying that the
matters are in litigation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Victor Co. of Japan:
   Small, Light Video System
   Using Super VHS Unveiled
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.VIC
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Victor Co. of Japan Ltd. has designed what it says is the
world's smallest and lightest super VHS video system.
   The new system, called the VHS Movie Compo, is priced at
288,000 yen ($1,806.34) a set. It will be released on Japan's
domestic market May 16, JVC said Wednesday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A company official said the new system is composed of five
major parts: an S-VHS compact video deck, a video camera,
liquid crystal display monitor, TV tuner, and rechargeable
battery.
   Because it uses a newly developed lightweight thin
mechanism, the S-VHS video recorder is 20% lighter and 40%
smaller than conventional models, yet offers high-fidelity
sound, the company said.
   JVC plans to offer the new system in the U.S. this summer
and in Europe in the near future.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Survey Underscores Crisis
   Involving Texas Real Estate
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
REAL ESTATE, REITS, LAND DEVELOPMENT (REL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- In a survey that underscores the real estate
crisis in Texas, the Finance Commission of Texas found that
banks, thrifts and the federal government control $43.55
billion of Texas real estate that has been repossessed or
will be shortly.
   "It's a frightening number," said commission Chairman R.
Dary Stone, president of Delphinance Development Corp. of
Dallas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   About 45% of the property covered by the survey is raw
land, a circumstance that doesn't bode well for Resolution
Trust Corp. or Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. as they
attempt to market the repossessed assets of thrifts and
banks.
   "There's just not a market for land," Mr. Stone said.
"That's why the FDIC's and RTC's job is so difficult. They're
going to be here for a long time."
   And the size of the problem could be as much as 50%
larger, Mr. Stone suggested, because the survey -- released
yesterday -- didn't include nonperforming loans or real
estate controlled by out-of-state thrifts and banks.
   Land accounted for about $19.43 billion of the real estate
covered by the survey. Retail, office and industrial
properties, whose market is recovering in some parts of
Texas, accounted for about $11.47 billion of the portfolio.
Multifamily developments, including apartment complexes,
which are selling well in most parts of Texas, made up about
$7.47 billion of the total.
   The survey covers real estate and nonperforming loans held
by thrifts, banks and the government as of June 30, 1989. Mr.
Stone said he doesn't expect that the $43.55 billion value
will have changed much in intervening months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Rise in Firms'
   Top Tax Rate
   To Be Discussed
   ---
   House Budget Panel Also
   To Mull Deduction Curb
   For State, Local Levies
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A short list of tax-increase options
prepared for the House Budget Committee's chairman includes
raising the top tax rate on corporations and limiting the
deduction for state and local taxes.
   Besides these newcomers to this year's fiscal debate,
other options on the closely guarded list include raising the
top rate on individuals, suspending a provision that ties tax
brackets to inflation, and increasing the gasoline tax, the
cigarette tax and other excise taxes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The document was prepared for Rep. Leon Panetta (D.,
Calif.) for use in continuing, closed-door sessions of the
House Budget Committee, which is charged with writing a
blueprint for deficit reduction in fiscal 1991, which begins
Oct. 1. The document presents various plans calling for tax
increases that range from $18.1 billion to $13.9 billion, the
amount Democrats say President Bush is proposing.
   The list gives an early indication of how House Democratic
leaders might lean when it comes to raising the revenue
needed to hold down the budget deficit.
   Though Rep. Panetta says he doesn't endorse the options,
the list includes ideas already raised by such Democratic
leaders as House Speaker Thomas Foley of Washington state,
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell of Maine and House
Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski of
Illinois.
   Rep. Panetta played down the options list, stressing that
it consists of staff options prepared for him to help him
answer questions from committee members. What's more, the
budget panel doesn't have the authority to draft tax law;
that responsibility falls to the Ways and Means Committee. In
addition, President Bush is solidly opposed to several of the
items.
   Still, the budget panel does tell tax writers how much in
taxes to levy. That amount is usually derived with specific
tax changes in mind. And while Rep. Panetta said he doesn't
intend to include specific recommendations for tax increases
in his budget plan, lawmakers will be tempted to plug options
from the list into their budget formulas.
   Further, the mere existence of the options list has
created a stir among some of the interest groups whose taxes
would be increased, and has raised the hackles of lawmakers
who support those interests.
   For his part, Mr. Panetta said the committee is likely to
set the tax-increase total at $13.9 billion and leave the
specifics to the Ways and Means Committee. "That is a
decision for Ways and Means, and it will remain a decision
for Ways and Means," he said.
   In the meantime, the options document is quite specific.
In each of the three, separate tax-bill versions, it lists
raising the top individual tax rate to 33% from the current,
nominal tax rate of 28%, an idea already endorsed by
Democratic leaders in the House and Senate. Now, the nation's
highest-income individuals are taxed at 28% on their last
dollar of income, while many people who make less money pay
33% on the last dollars they earn each year. All three
versions also include a hefty tax cut -- to extend a variety
of soon-to-expire tax breaks for low-income housing and
research and development expenses, for example.
   Each version also would raise excise taxes. One version
specifies a gasoline tax increase of six cents a gallon; the
current tax is 9.1 cents a gallon. The same version lists a
doubling of the tax on cigarettes to 32 cents a pack.
   Other options listed include an increase in the top
corporate tax rate to 35% from the current nominal rate of
34%, and the suspension for one year of the indexing of tax
brackets to inflation.
   Versions also include a reference to an unspecified
limitation on the deduction for state and local taxes, a
proposal that in 1985 nearly killed what later became the Tax
Reform Act of 1986.
   Many of these ideas have been advanced, at least in
rhetorical fashion, by Ways and Means Chairman Rostenkowski.
As part of a major deficit-reduction package, he has called
for increases in excise taxes and an increase in the top tax
rate on individuals. The Panetta staff options list is the
first solid indication that some of those ideas might have a
future in the legislative process.
   Separately, the Congressional Black Caucus unveiled its
fiscal 1991 budget plan, projecting a deficit of $63.8
billion and calling for $19.8 billion in new revenue.
   Nearly half of the new revenue, $8.2 billion, would come
from federal fees and taxes proposed by Mr. Bush. The plan
also calls for raising $6.5 billion from a 10% surtax on the
income of the top 10% corporate taxpayers and $4.1 billion
from raising the top rate on individuals. An additional $1
billion in new taxes would result from increased employment
created by various initiatives, according to the budget plan.
   Rep. Ron Dellums (D., Calif.), chairman of the Black
Caucus, called the plan "tax equity in the finest tradition
of the Democratic Party -- taxing the wealthy."
   The black lawmakers' spending plan would cut military
spending authority to $259.4 billion, $47.4 billion below the
president's request. That would translate to about $279.5
billion in outlays. The savings would be achieved by
eliminating numerous weapons systems, including the MX and
Midgetman missiles and the B2 bomber, and cutting 200,000
troops.
   Some of the savings would go to increased spending on such
social programs as job training and education, and to provide
resources for communities that lose jobs because of military
spending cuts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   TSB Group PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS U.TSB
</CO>
<LP>
   TSB GROUP PLC (London) -- The following are named as
executive directors of this U.K. banking and financial
services group: Hamish Donaldson, chief executive, corporate
banking, TSB Bank PLC; Peter Ellwood, chief executive, retail
banking, and Sir Richard Lloyd, chairman, Hill Samuel Bank
Ltd.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Guinness Mahon Holdings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GUINNESS MAHON HOLDINGS PLC (London) -- David Bruce was
named finance director. Mr. Bruce succeeds Ian Dinwiddie, who
is leaving to take up an appointment with Allen &amp; Overy. Mr.
Bruce was previously executive director, finance and
administration, with the International Stock Exchange.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   School Dress Codes
   Aim to Discourage
   Clothing Robberies
   ---
   But Children of Inner Cities
   Resist Bans on Wearing
   Costly Jewelry and Coats
   ----
   By Krystal Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- With a wardrobe that includes three leather
coats, a Gucci gold-link necklace and two pairs of Gucci gym
shoes, 15-year-old Melchishaua Person is considered the
best-dressed student at Henry Ford High School. Her mother,
who owns a costume-jewelry store, has spent $5,000 for her
daughter's clothes as a reward for her B average.
   Melchishaua is dismayed by the prospect of a dress code at
school that would ban such trendy clothing. But all too
literally, she may be dressed fit to kill. The desire to
"bust fresh" -- to dress at the height of teen-age fashion --
has become dangerous at many of the nation's inner-city
public schools. Yet many students, confident that if
something violent happens it will happen to somebody else,
resist dress codes as a blow to their culture and their
freedom to express themselves in fashion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Students have been beaten, shot and robbed of their
leather and goose-down coats, thick gold chains, designer
shoes and other prized items. A high-school student in New
York was killed for his bomber jacket. Another, in Detroit,
was found dead with his coat and shoes missing. More than 10
students have been wounded in Detroit in other clothing
robberies near schools since last September.
   Alarmed officials of Detroit's schools plan to prohibit
high-priced clothing and jewelry next fall. Similar codes
have already been imposed, or will be, at schools in
Baltimore, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York and New Haven,
Conn.
   The prohibitions enrage many students, though not all.
Teen-agers here have organized the Student Committee Against
Dress Codes and held a protest march at Detroit's school
administration building. "Anything can happen to you at any
time," says Tamika Johnson, a 17-year-old senior at Henry
Ford. "The bottom line is that if my parents buy the clothes
I have to be able to wear them."
   Dress codes as a deterrent to crime bother some adults.
Mary Louise Starks, who is in charge of psychological
services for the Detroit school system, says they fail to
address the roots of teen-age violence. "A dress code is a
temporary measure that is limited in scope," she says.
"Students are committing these crimes because they don't have
a sense of power and self-esteem. They steal from their peers
to gain control over another person."
   Such motivations, she believes, are unlikely to disappear
when a dress code is imposed. She also observes: "Our entire
society has become extremely materialistic. Greed is
reflected from the highest public office to the streets."
   Baltimore imposed its code last year after an outbreak of
fights over leather coats and gold chains. The code bans
jewelry, leather and fur coats, and designer jogging suits.
Violators are sent home with a letter to their parents. And
students are now required to carry see-through book bags to
make it harder for them to conceal weapons at school.
   "Violence isn't as bad as it was," says Jonathan Johns,
17, a senior at Baltimore's Dunbar High School. "There's no
way to prove it's all due to the dress code, but I feel it's
had a big impact." School officials say there were only 15
assaults and robberies or attempted robberies in 1989, when
the code was established, down from 23 in 1988, and the
number of incidents involving guns fell to 35 from 55.
   Tilton Elementary School in Chicago adopted a voluntary
uniform of navy blue and white last year after 12 students
were robbed walking to or from school. About half the
school's 850 students wear the uniform. It may become
mandatory next September. "The code shows that you come to
school to learn and not to play, and it saves your parents'
money," says fifth-grader LaDonna Wright, 10, who attends
class in a white blouse and blue jumper. "And people won't
get killed or beat up for their clothes."
   Nor will they at Mumford High School in Detroit, so far
the city's only public high school with a dress code. The
code was imposed in 1986 after beatings and shootings of
students for their Marc Buchanan brand leather coats and
jackets, Guess brand blue jackets and Adidas Top 10 gym
shoes.
   Today, the code prohibits those items as well as designer
eyeglasses, gold jewelry, designer purses, leather briefcases
and about 30 other items. A clause permitting officials to
add to the list was recently invoked afer several Detroit
youngsters were shot and robbed of Triple F.A.T. Goose down
coats. The brightly colored coats, often with fur trim, cost
as much as $250 each.
   Violators of the Mumford code may be slapped with five
day's suspension and a permanent blemish on their records.
"The code has worked marvelously well," says Mumford
Principal Robert Oden. "Most kids don't think about the code
anymore. It's become a way of life."
   Students do think about it, however. "They have no right
to tell us what to wear," says 16-year-old Windy Watson, a
Mumford sophomore. "The school's job is to teach us, not tell
us how to dress." She says many students violate the code
regularly without being caught; she herself is carrying a
$154 Coach purse.
   Some students at inner-city schools get money to buy
expensive gear from drug dealing. But most others, or their
parents, earn it from hard work.
   Nicole Williams, a 17-year-old senior at Detroit's Cass
Technical High School, often works as many as 35 hours a week
at a McDonald's restaurant to pay for clothes and jewelry.
She owns and wears to school a $202 pair of Guccis, a $68
pair of Used brand blue jeans and a $100 rhinestone-studded
blue-jean jacket. "If they ban expensive clothes," she
gripes, "a lot of students won't have anything to wear."
   At Osborn High School in Detroit, 14-year-old Eric
Harrington, a freshman, says he saves his allowance to pay
for his clothing and jewelry. A Fila emblem adorns his $50
turtleneck sweater. "I like expensive clothes like Fila and
Gucci," he says. "If I buy something I should be allowed to
wear it."
   Teen-age tastes change rapidly and differ from place to
place. Bomber jackets (and gold-capped teeth) are hot in New
York but not in Detroit. Chicago students prize athletic
jackets with basketball and football team logotypes. Students
in Los Angeles take special care in choosing colors: The
wrong ones might invite attack by an unfriendly gang.
   However varied the expression, the motivations for
"busting fresh" seem universal. "First impressions are
crucial," says Melchishaua Person, the well-dressed
sophomore. "I feel better about myself when I look good.
Everybody wants to look good." Robbed at Osborn High of his
$130 goose-down coat, a 15-year-old student said he wore
expensive clothes because otherwise he "probably wouldn't get
a girlfriend."
   Still, some students accept the codes as needed. "The
reason the administration has made these rules is for our
safety," says Christina Royal, 17, a junior at Crenshaw High
School in Los Angeles, which has banned bandannas, baseball
caps and other items associated with gangs. "I don't feel
violated. It's for our own safety."
   Marc Chambers, an 18-year-old senior at Pershing High
School in Detroit, favors a code. Last year, he was robbed of
his $500 full-length leather coat at gunpoint as he walked
home from school. "A boy walked up to me and told me to take
off the coat or he would bust a cap on {shoot} me," Marc
says.
   Miss Person's mother, Antreina Stone, is happy to give her
daughter expensive clothing, but also says the code may be
needed. "I'm in favor of a code if it will protect young
people," she says. "Students can always wear their clothes on
weekends and after school."
   Says Frank Hayden, the Detroit school board member who
proposed the dress code: "I prefer that young people not be
allowed to wear what they want to my having to visit them in
the hospital or attend another funeral."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Senate Panel Seeks
   To Trim Spending
   At Military Schools
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Congressional budget-cutters have begun
looking for ways to scale back spending by the three military
academies and reduce the number of college students enrolled
in officer-training classes nationwide.
   Such cost-cutting ideas, aimed at the military's
time-honored way of choosing and training its future leaders,
emerged yesterday during a Senate Armed Services subcommittee
hearing. Once considered to be almost heretical and political
folly by Pentagon supporters, the proposals circulating on
Capitol Hill show how far the debate over defense spending
has shifted in recent months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We know that current demand for new officers is less than
was forecast four or five years ago," said subcommittee
chairman Sen. John Glenn (D., Ohio), adding that heftier
troop cuts are inevitable by the mid-1990s. Budget pressures
require the Pentagon to "improve the efficiency as well as
the academic vitality of the academies," Sen. Glenn said,
noting that Congress has an obligation to carefully review
how the institutions manage those changes.
   Budget cuts involving the academies are still preliminary,
and the details won't become clear until the Pentagon
completes its own personnel review later this year. But
members of the subcommittee, conducting their first detailed
oversight hearing on the subject in more than a decade,
grilled the superintendent of each of the service academies
about everything from maintenance and training costs to
faculty-student ratios.
   "We're going to have to do something about {newly
commissioned} officers coming through the system as though
nothing has changed" in East-West relations, said Sen. James
Exon (D., Neb.), usually a strong supporter of the Pentagon.
   So far, the military has avoided committing itself to
major changes. "There are no sacred cows" in the effort to
cut costs, Christopher Jehn, the Pentagon's top personnel
official, assured lawmakers.
   But other witnesses acknowledged that current Pentagon
plans envision that the size of the class entering each of
the three service academies -- West Point, Annapolis and the
Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs -- will remain
basically flat this fall. As a result, the largest and most
immediate cuts in new officers are expected to come from the
850 or so colleges and universities that offer
officer-training programs.
   Whatever the outcome, lawmakers are certain to think hard
about making changes in programs that for decades have been
among the most popular and jealously guarded portions of the
defense budget. Sen. Glenn, who clearly used the hearing to
send an early-warning signal to the military bureaucracy,
nevertheless assured the witnesses that his goal was to
impose tighter financial controls on the academies rather
"than to close them down or to reduce their role as the
bedrock source of military officers."
   Increased congressional scrutiny, however, already has
embarrassed the academies. A General Accounting Office report
released by the subcommittee concluded that the Pentagon may
have tried to hide millions of dollars paid to run the
facilities, while failing to adequately audit and supervise
their financial affairs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Angio-Medical Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ANME WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ANGIO-MEDICAL Corp. (New York) -- Robert S. Sinn, founder
of this pharmaceuticals and cosmetics company, resigned as
chairman and chief executive officer to start up a private
company. Mr. Sinn, 59 years old, also resigned as a director.
W. Frederick Hymes, 53, will succeed Mr. Sinn and will
continue as president and chief operating officer. John D.
Douros Jr., 60, a pharmaceuticals consultant, was elected to
succeed Mr. Sinn as one of the company's five directors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Proposed Bill Has Alcohol Sellers Fuming
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   MO BUD U.GME GREY NIPNY OMCM
</CO>
<IN>
MARKETING, ADVERTISING (MKT)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The alcoholic beverage industry is in a rage over proposed
legislation requiring health warnings with all ads --
legislation that, if passed, will change the way every beer,
wine and liquor in the country advertises itself.
   As expected, Sen. Albert Gore Jr. (D., Tenn.) and Rep.
Joseph Kennedy II (D., Mass.) yesterday introduced the
controversial legislation. It calls for health warnings to be
displayed prominently in all alcoholic beverage ads and
promotional materials, much the way cigarette ads must
include the Surgeon General's warning now. But the alcohol
warnings would be even more intrusive than the cigarette
warnings: Not only are they longer, but they would have to be
read aloud, as well as displayed, in all TV ads for wines and
beers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mandatory health warnings would lead to enormous changes
in the way alcohol companies advertise, especially for beer
makers that spend tens of millions of dollars annually on TV
and radio ads. Because the lengthy warnings would have to be
read aloud in ads, they would effectively do away with both
15-second and possibly some 30-second commercials, industry
executives insist. Billboards might also be problematic,
considering that the proposed warnings -- the bill lists five
to be used on a rotating basis -- get longer than 30 words,
not including a mandatory 800-number for information.
   "Advertising has never proven to be the link to alcohol
abuse or underage drinking," contends Richard Klemp, director
of government affairs for Miller Brewing Co., a unit of
Philip Morris Cos. "Having the government mandate messages on
commercials is the wrong approach. It's almost like they want
all the beer commercials to be like Joe Isuzu commercials,
where it says `he's lying.'" Stephen K. Lambright, a vice
president with Anheuser-Busch Co., brands the proposed
measures "ill-timed and misinformed."
   The advertising and liquor industry's fury is hardly
unexpected; the industry screams whenever anyone attempts to
introduce restrictions of any sort. But what makes the
proposed bill stand out is its chance of ultimately becoming
law. Although liquor executives say the proposed legislation
faces an uphill battle this time around, they expect the idea
to resurface down the road.
   "I think it's a matter of sooner or later -- not if," says
a grim Richard Lewis, who heads up the ad account for Absolut
Vodka at TBWA Advertising. "The unfortunate thing is, the
liquor industry is such an easy industry to kick." Mr. Lewis
says that since liquor interests are splintered -- beer
brewers tend to distance themselves from hard liquor
companies -- it doesn't have the kind of cohesive lobbying
clout that the tobacco industry has.
   "I believe it isn't impossible, and not even unlikely, for
liquor advertising to be banned before tobacco advertising,"
he says, "because it's a less well-defended industry."
   Advertising lobbying groups are marshaling their defenses
now; yesterday, fax machines were working overtime as various
companies and industry groups voiced their indignation. All
insist the legislation is unnecessary and misguided. They say
education efforts are a better choice than labeling. They
take issue with the proposals' assertion that children see
100,000 beer commercials by the time they are 18.
Anheuser-Busch's Mr. Lambright says that is a "myth" and
"patently false."
   "Beer is a legitimate, simple pleasure of life," he adds.
"There is no reason for alcohol to take the road followed by
tobacco."
   The legislative attack comes at a time when the alcohol
industry has been losing sales. Total consumption of
alcoholic beverages peaked in 1986, according to M. Schanken
Communications, which publishes Impact, a trade newsletter.
Sales of distilled spirits have been declining since 1979,
while wine has been on a downward tilt since 1984. Beer
hasn't yet peaked, but sales were basically flat in 1989,
according to Impact studies.
   Even as consumption drops, alcohol companies are coming
under further restrictions; since November, they've been
required to display health warnings on their labels. "Aren't
you reducing the credibility of these warning labels as you
begin to apply them everywhere, every which way?" asks Peter
Seremet, vice president of public affiars for Heublein Inc.,
a unit of Grand Metropolitan PLC that makes Smirnoff vodka as
well as Inglenook and Almaden wines.
   The proposed legislation follows a sweeping legislative
attack on tobacco, an even more beleaguered industry. At
least six proposed bills are pending that would severely
restrict tobacco advertising, including two that would ban
the use of colors or pictures in promotions, permitting only
all-text ads.
   "When are we going to see warning messages in ads for
cars? And for coffee because it contains caffeine?" fumes
TBWA's Mr. Lewis. "How far do you take this?"
   The alcohol legislation's proponents say the warning
labels are necessary to counter fetal alcohol syndrome and
other alcohol-related problems. The five warnings would have
to be boxed in ads, and include cautions against drinking and
driving, drinking during pregnancy, drinking with other
drugs, addictive drinking and drinking under age 21.
   While some advertising and liquor executives are
optimistic about defeating the proposals, they are
nevertheless fighting to their last breaths. And the battle
shows every indication of getting dirty: Several
alcohol-industry executives suggested that if they're forced
to display warning labels, they might abandon the alcohol
abuse messages they've been funding voluntarily.
   Since the legislation would force beers and wines to use
longer, more expensive spots, so this argument goes, the
alcohol companies will have less money left to spend on
public service ads. "You're going to have to pay far more for
advertising," says Heublein's Mr. Seremet. "Where is the
money going to come from {to create public service ads}? They
didn't think these things out very well."
   ---
   Where's the Real Life of Ads?
                                                                                                       

   Consumers complain that advertising doesn't reflect the
complexity and real experiences of American life, a new
consumer study by Grey Advertising concludes.
   The study, called "Households of the 1990s: America's New
Grown-ups," suggests an adult population will emerge that
says time is the most important variable in their lives. This
segment of the population will include 52 million households
and will hold the buying power in the 1990s, Grey predicts.
   These consumers are skeptical of advertising, though. It's
too trendy and doesn't ring true to consumers' personal
experiences, Grey says. "It's time for us to make some
changes," says Barbara Feigin, executive vice president at
Grey.
   Some changes, such as including family members other than
mom in consumer products ads, are already being made, Grey
says. But the agency says many ads insult consumers by
blowing out of perspective a product's place in a consumer's
life.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEC CORP.: NEC Technologies, a unit of NEC Corp. of Japan,
named TBWA Advertising, New York, to handle the $10 million
to $15 million account for its TurboGrafx-16 video game. NEC
also appointed Hakuhodo Advertising America, New York, to
handle trade and consumer sales promotion assignments for the
game. Separately, NEC named Lois/GGK, New York, to handle a
$3 million ad assignment for its Bonk's Adventure software.
DDB Needham, an Omnicom Group agency, previously serviced the
Turbo-Grafx-16 account.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Sinks on Fears of Tokyo Plunge;
   Pinkerton's Unchanged From Offering
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Rumors that share prices in Tokyo are poised
to take another plunge helped turn gains to losses on the
over-the-counter market yesterday.
   Traders say rumors that a major Japanese institution would
be forced to liquidate at least part of its stock holdings,
driving Tokyo's Nikkei 225-Stock Index still lower, spooked
holders of U.S. equities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's a rumor-driven market. . . ," says John Schraff,
equities trader at Daiwa Securities America.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index, which had edged higher to
marginal gains late Wednesday morning, slid 2.23, or 0.5%, to
435.42 by the close.
   The rumors also sapped share prices on the New York Stock
Exchange, sinking the composite index there 0.66%.
   But Mitch Meisler, a manager of OTC trading at Shearson
Lehman Hutton, says the turbulence overseas may make U.S.
markets the investment arena of choice.
   He notes that yesterday's losses in unlisted shares were
tempered by sharp gains in the bond market, where a "flight
to quality" helped drive Treasury prices sharply higher.
Long-term Treasury issues were up more than a point late
yesterday.
   The bond market rally came after Federal Reserve Board
Chairman Alan Greenspan told the House Banking Committee
panel that the U.S. may attract disproportionate capital
inflows as investors around the world seek to diversify risk.
   Steve VanBrunt, trader at Nikko Securities Co.
International, says his firm was moderately active yesterday,
with an equal amount of buying and selling from Japanese
accounts.
   Daiwa's Mr. Schraff says his firm has seen "a lot of
selling" in the American Depositary Receipts of Japanese
companies, much of it by other U.S. brokerage firms.
   Many Japanese ADRs opened on gains following a rise in
Japanese share prices Tuesday, but fell during yesterday's
session here.
   The OTC selling was heavy enough for some traders to
expect a weak opening today, regardless of what happened in
Tokyo.
   "There's a lot of traffic," says William H. Sulya, head of
OTC trading at A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons in St. Louis, Mo. "It
looks like it's going to carry right into {today}."
   Total Nasdaq volume rose to 138.4 million shares yesterday
from Tuesday's 134.8 million shares.
   OTC stocks that fell in price outnumbered those that
gained, with 830 winners and 1,105 losers.
   National Market System volume eased to 100,371,400 shares
from 102,445,900 shares Tuesday.
   The Nasdaq 100 Index, which includes the OTC market's
largest non-financial stocks, dropped 2.66, or 0.61%, to
430.96, while the Nasdaq Financial 100 Index lost 3.21, or
0.82%, to 389.37.
   On the most-active list, Pinkerton's closed unchanged from
its offering price of 14 on volume of more than 1.3 million
shares.
   The company's two million share initial public offering
was priced earlier yesterday at the low end of its proposed
range of $14 to $16 a share.
   The security and investigation firm was immortalized in
American folklore for protecting the railways from such
scourges as Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.
   Al Berger, Pinkerton's chief operating officer, says the
firm was hired for the task by Abraham Lincoln, who was then
chief counsel for the Illinois Central Railway.
   American Brands bought the company from the Pinkerton
family in 1983 and sold it to California Plant Protection
Inc. five years later. Pinkerton's was then merged with
California Plant Protection to form the present company.
   One person who benefited from the initial public stock
offering was Thomas W. Wathen, chairman, chief executive and
president of the company.
   According to the preliminary prospectus, Mr. Wathen bought
his 4,207,290 shares at an average price of two cents each,
or about $84,000. In the initial public offering, he sold
666,667 shares at $14 each, which, excluding the underwriting
fee, netted $9.3 million. He will own about 64% of the firm
after completion of the offering.
   The balance of 1,333,333 shares sold in the offering were
issued by the company.
   Proceeds from the sale of the company's shares will be
applied to reducing the $76.5 million long-term debt that
remains on the balance sheet from previous changes of
ownership.
   Mr. Wathen has promised to apply at least $4.5 million of
his proceeds against $7.5 million in loans that he has
outstanding to the company.
   Among Japanese ADRs that fell today, Makita Electric lost
1/2 to 85 after opening at 88 on a 2 1/2 point gain;
Ito-Yokado ended down 4 1/4 from Tuesday's close at 89 1/4,
and down from its opening at 92; Tokio Marine &amp; Fire
Insurance fell 1 to 41 1/2, after opening with only a 1/8
point loss.
   Meanwhile, Laidlaw's class B shares eased 3/8 to 21 1/8,
while its less actively traded class A shares added 1/4 to 21
1/4. The transportation and waste treatment company reported
that it would sell its Byers Transport unit for an
undisclosed amount. Laidlaw also announced that it earned
$60.3 million in the second quarter ended in February, up
from the $42 million it earned in the year-earlier period.
   A secondary offering of 2.5 million Sequent Computer
System shares was priced late Tuesday at $24 each. The stock
closed at 24 1/4, down 7/8 from Tuesday.
   Oilgear added 2 1/2 to 26. The company reported late
Tuesday that 1989 net income was $1.83 a share, even with the
$1.83 reported a year ago.
   LIN Broadcasting rose 2 1/2 to 68 3/4, reflecting the
distribution of McCaw Cellular Communications class A shares
yesterday to LIN shareholders.
   Sevenson Environmental gained 1 3/8 to 12 1/2 after
getting two contracts worth $15.5 million.
   Intermetrics jumped 1 1/4 to 4 3/4 after declaring a
special 80-cent dividend along with its initial annual
dividend of 20 cents. The dividends will be payable to
holders of record April 30, but pay dates for the dividends
have not been set.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Full Throttle:
   Stern Boss of Amtrak
   Pushes to Wean Line
   Off Federal Subsidies
   ---
   Claytor's Stress on Discipline
   Is Luring Back Passengers,
   But Cost Cuts Rile Unions
   ---
   Still Needed: Capital Infusion
   ----
   By Daniel Machalaba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TRANSPORTATION, TRUCK AND SHIP LINES, RAILROADS (TRA)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Speeding toward Florida aboard Amtrak's Auto Train, a
tall, 78-year-old man pokes through the swaying passenger
cars, looking for trouble.
   "Broken toilet," he scribbles on a sheet of paper. "Buffet
car line too long." His sleeping-car berth also flunks. "Worn
spring," scrawls W. Graham Claytor Jr., Amtrak's chairman and
president. "Unsatisfactory," he grumps to a train attendant.
"It has to be fixed."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stern and demanding, Mr. Claytor has worried Amtrak, nit
by nit, into the best shape of its 19-year history. Now, he
is promising that Amtrak will do by the year 2000 what hardly
any other passenger rail system in the world does: operate
without taxpayer subsidies. Success would mark the "upset of
the century in passenger railroading," says William Withuhn,
a rail historian at the Smithsonian Institution.
   Despite the odds, some employees and academics expect Mr.
Claytor to succeed. Eight years ago, government subsidies
covered 52% of Amtrak's operating costs. Now, the subsidies
have dropped to $604 million (from $896 million in 1981) and
cover only 28% of those costs. "If I were a betting man, I'd
put money on him," Mr. Withuhn says.
   Mr. Claytor's progress has surprised many skeptics. Called
from retirement in 1982 to head the nation's passenger
railroad, the former Southern Railway president and Navy
secretary has fought sloppy service, has increased revenue
and has controlled costs. His steady financial progress has
won him allies in Congress and derailed federal budget
cutters.
   "We were asking if Amtrak was a bottomless pit and did we
need it," recalls Rep. William Lehman, a Florida Democrat and
the chairman of the House transportation appropriations
subcommittee. "Now we're saying let's modernize it."
   But the tracks are littered with obstacles. Most immediate
is the Bush administration's hope to end Amtrak's subsidies
in fiscal 1991 -- far earlier than Mr. Claytor would like.
Although Congress isn't likely to approve such a cutoff, Mr.
Claytor still must find capital funds. He needs, over the
next 10 years, $1.5 billion to $2 billion to expand Amtrak's
skeletal network so that it can generate the revenue to run
on its own.
   Mr. Claytor also faces problems of low levels of service
and, because of lagging capital outlays, overworked
equipment. Except for the Boston-to-Washington Northeast
Corridor and a few other busy lines, service on most of
Amtrak's 24,000 miles of routes consists of one train a day.
At Chicago's Union Station, John Skinner, an Amtrak assistant
superintendent, tells subordinates that the oil-splattered
diesel locomotive on a train ready to depart looks like a
"piece of junk."
   Partly to make up for any reductions in federal operating
subsidies, Mr. Claytor wants legislation to relieve Amtrak of
$135 million a year in employee retirement costs that he
believes should be borne by freight railroads or the federal
government. He also is trying to persuade the Urban Mass
Transportation Administration to pick up more of the costs
that Amtrak incurs because commuter railroads heavily use the
Northeast Corridor.
   Moreover, Mr. Claytor is lobbying in Congress to get -- if
the federal gasoline tax is raised -- a penny a gallon of it
assigned to Amtrak's capital needs. Meanwhile, he lined up
$105 million in private financing for 104 new passenger cars
last year.
   And he is coaxing states and communities along Amtrak
routes to pay for modernizing stations, adding trains and
improving track. But when he refused to commit additional
funds to the busy line between San Diego and Los Angeles last
December, he got an angry reaction. "He never takes any
initiative to improve the service" on that line, says James
Mills, a former Amtrak chairman who heads the Los Angeles-San
Diego Rail Corridor Agency.
   "We're not a philanthropic organization," Mr. Claytor
replies. "If we did everything everybody wanted, we'd go
broke."
   In addition to finding new money, Mr. Claytor's plan
depends on wringing more costs out of rail labor, which has
already agreed to new work rules to help Amtrak. The changes,
Amtrak acknowledges, were worth about $50 million a year -- a
significant sum, perhaps, but minor compared with Amtrak's
fiscal 1989 salaries and benefits of $1.03 billion.
   Shortly after arriving at Amtrak, Mr. Claytor took
advantage of 1983 legislation and hired his own crews to run
the Northeast Corridor trains. He paid them a week's wages
for 40 hours worked. Previously, the trains were operated
under contract with Consolidated Rail Corp., whose crews got
a day's wages for each 100 miles traveled. By operating one
of Amtrak's speedy Metroliners round trip between New York
and Washington -- less than eight hours' work -- they earned
4 1/2 days' pay.
   "Everything I worked for has been taken away," complains
John Harrison, an engineer from Elkton, Md. He now works 20
days a month, twice as many as before. Joseph J. Carella,
another engineer, says, "I was making about $1,000 a week
seven or eight years ago working three days a week. I'm now
making about $1,000 a week working five days."
   Later, Mr. Claytor negotiated the right to hire his own
crews nationwide.
   "We're damned frustrated with Amtrak," says Richard
Kilroy, head of the Railway Labor Executives' Association,
which represents rail unions. "It is demanding cutbacks . . .
when we have been the main ingredient in their success."
   When Mr. Claytor took over at Amtrak, his crusty bluntness
and keen eye for railroad operating details amazed some
staffers accustomed to the collegial style of his
predecessor, Alan Boyd. "Details bore me," Mr. Boyd says.
"I'm much more interested in conceptualizing."
   To focus managers' attention, Mr. Claytor bombarded them
with reports of broken doors, burned-out lights and delays.
After one trip, he wrote 10 pages worth. Now, each of
Amtrak's 18 top executives must file a dozen trip reports a
year.
   "Mr. Claytor leads by being vociferously demanding, and he
doesn't hesitate to chew people out," says Timothy Gardner, a
vice president. "When he started here, people were terrified
of him, but now there's a lot of affection for him."
   When staffers gave him a paste-on skin thermometer said to
measure stress, he obligingly affixed it to his hand and
noted its "calm" reading. "I don't get stress, I give
stress," he joked.
   Mr. Claytor instituted training programs for managers and
promoted those showing the tightest grasp of railroad
operations. Eight years ago, "the people they had in middle
and lower management were bush league," says M.D. "Mike"
Ongerth, an assistant vice president of Southern Pacific
Transportation Co. "Now, I see a very professional cadre of
managers."
   Amtrak likes to point to its gains in operations. Revenue
increased to $1.27 billion last year from $758.8 million in
1984, and Metroliner revenue doubled. Ridership is up on
Amtrak's Western long-distance trains, which cater to
vacationers with movies, scenery guides and meals prepared
from fresh ingredients.
   Stations are being rebuilt. For $150 million of federal
and private funds, Washington's Union Station has been
restored to its 1907 grandeur.
   Mr. Claytor capitalized on higher demand for rail travel
to raise fares 55% in eight years. He has expanded income
from real estate, mail handling, fiber-optic cable leases and
the commuter trains Amtrak operates under contract for
Maryland and Massachusetts.
   All the while, he repeatedly fought off Reagan
administration attacks on Amtrak's "mobile money-burning
machine" that serves less than 1% of intercity travelers. In
time, he convinced a majority in Congress of Amtrak's
financial progress and its growing popularity among travelers
put off by highway and airport congestion.
   A Harvard Law graduate who skippered destroyer escorts in
World War II, Mr. Claytor practiced law for 20 years before
joining Southern Railway in 1963. He quickly became chief
executive, retiring in 1977 to serve as Navy secretary,
acting transportation secretary and deputy defense secretary
under President Carter.
   Steam locomotives and passenger trains fascinate Mr.
Claytor; his Georgetown townhouse has floor-to-ceiling
shelves of antique toy trains. But his job occasionally
requires a cutback in train service, a step he has proved
willing to take. For example, he overcame opposition from St.
Petersburg, Fla., officials to end service there and
substitute buses from the Tampa railroad station, saving $1.3
million a year.
   But his style draws criticism. "Claytor is an arrogant
aristocrat, autocrat and plutocrat," says Austin Coates, the
president of the United Rail Passenger Alliance, a passenger
group. "He runs Amtrak like the military, and that's a morale
killer." Howard Prevette, a Galesburg, Ill., conductor, is
still smarting from losing 10 days' pay because last October
he failed to alert an engineer to slow down past a track
gang. "They ought to take {Mr. Claytor's} paycheck away from
him whenever he makes a mistake," Mr. Prevette says.
   Mr. Claytor defends tough discipline. "Operating a
railroad is, in effect, a military organization and has to be
done as close to letter-perfect as can be," he says. "If a
rule is in effect, by God, you got to comply with it."
   Others are skeptical of Mr. Claytor's plan to make Amtrak
break even. "He obviously has an incentive to say that
eventually Amtrak will be self-sufficient," says David Boaz
of the Cato Institute, a conservative policy group. "He is
trying to keep the subsidies going until 1999, and in the
year 2000 there will be another excuse."
   Indeed, Mr. Claytor has had setbacks. A costly move to
extend train service to Atlantic City, N.J., last May has
failed to wean many gamblers from cars and buses. And Amtrak
trains have been delayed by freight railroads' moves to
consolidate traffic on fewer lines. When the Illinois Central
said it wanted to reroute Amtrak's City of New Orleans to a
slow-speed, unsignaled track south of Memphis, Mr. Claytor
dug in his heels. "Wholly unsatisfactory. We'd get an
injunction," he says. Edward Moyers, the Illinois Central
president, now plays down his proposal as "just a
discussion."
   Mr. Claytor's attempt to cut costs and keep passenger cars
in service by postponing some maintenance led to passenger
complaints about worn carpets, ripped seats and broken
toilets. He reversed the policy in 1988. Now, Amtrak puts its
cars in the shop for preventive maintenance at least three
times a year.
   Mr. Claytor has updated some Amtrak repair shops with
assembly-line methods he used at the highly efficient
Southern. But he still sees big savings possible if Amtrak
ends rigid craft distinctions among shop workers. And he says
he can raise productivity by building shelters over
passenger-car yards in New York and Chicago to shield
mechanics servicing cars in rain and snow.
   To increase ridership, Amtrak wants to buy hundreds of
passenger cars, including new Viewliner cars now being tested
as replacements for 40-year-old dining and sleeping cars. To
reduce Metroliner delays and increase efficiency, he plans to
install servicing facilities on station platforms and to
rebuild the cars to enable engineers to operate the trains
from either end. In Sweden, he recently looked at tilt trains
that could take curves faster.
   Despite his age, Mr. Claytor says he hasn't any plans to
retire from his $99,500-a-year job in the "foreseeable
future." He received a vote of confidence last fall when
supporters in Congress roundly defeated a motion to cut off
Amtrak subsidies.
   Rep. Robert Walker, a Pennsylvania Republican who had
proposed the cutoff, complained that "Amtrak is eating up
$600 million of subsidies while we fail to make
transportation investments for the next century." But Mr.
Claytor, relishing his victory, comments: "Mr. Walker says
Amtrak is the past. In my opinion, it's the past, present and
future."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TXN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TEXAS INSTRUMENTS Inc. (Dallas) -- Moody's Investors
Service Inc., citing intense competition in the semiconductor
business and reduced growth in the defense arena, said it
downgraded the debt ratings of this big electronics concern,
affecting about $1.14 billion in debt. The rating concern
said that it cut the rating because it believes the company's
cash flows and profit margins will be lower "over the
intermediate term." Further, it said that joint ventures and
customer alliances, along with higher royalty payments, won't
be enough to offset the huge capital requirements of the
company's semiconductor business. Moody's said it cut Texas
Instruments' senior debt rating to single-A-2 from
single-A-1, its subordinated debt rating to single-A-3 from
single-A-2 and its preferred stock rating to single-A-3 from
single-A-2. A Texas Instruments spokesman said the company,
which had more than $600 million in cash and short-term
investments at year end, has a strong balance sheet and
believes its overall financial situation will remain strong.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Soar on Rumors of Credit Crunch
   In Japan; Rally Begins in the Futures Market
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Susan Scherreik
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR EUROP JAPAN FNM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
REAL ESTATE, REITS, LAND DEVELOPMENT (REL)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bond prices surged yesterday in reaction to
rumors of a growing credit crunch in Japan. Dealers said the
trading activity was the most hectic so far this year.
   The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond, which barely budged
in early trading, suddenly shot up in midafternoon as
investors rushed to buy bonds. The benchmark bond ended more
than one point higher, a gain of about $10 for each $1,000
face amount. The bond had been as many as 1 3/4 points higher
but edged lower on profit-taking.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The rally was triggered by rumors that a small Japanese
brokerage firm is about to collapse. There also was talk that
a large institutional investor couldn't meet margin calls and
that a major real estate developer defaulted on bank loans.
   The rumors, which couldn't be confirmed, prompted buying
of Treasury bonds on the belief that the reports will lead to
a rout in Japan's stock market. That, in turn, would
encourage Japanese investors to sell stocks and buy U.S.
Treasury bonds, fueling a "flight-to-quality" rally. When
investors become nervous, they sometimes sell stocks or
corporate bonds and buy U.S. Treasury securities, which are
considered the safest investment in the world.
   That scenario may sound convoluted, but traders said many
investors followed that line of reasoning yesterday.
   Robert B. Sbarra, a senior vice president and trading
manager at Carroll McEntee &amp; McGinley Inc., said the rally
began in the futures pit. "The stops were set off in the
short end and rippled all along the curve," he said.
   As prices rose, some dealers and traders rushed to buy
bonds in an effort to cover their short sale positions. In a
shortsale, dealers sell borrowed securities and later seek to
make a profit by buying the securities back at a lower price.
That strategy backfired yesterday, and investors were forced
to buy at higher prices instead.
   One trader characterized the scramble for Treasurys as
"kamikaze trading," and said he viewed the speculative
trading as being "way overdone."
   Also supportive to U.S. Treasurys, although at far lesser
degree, were comments by Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan
Greenspan. He told Congress that the U.S. may attract
disproportionate capital inflows as investors around the
world seek to diversify risk.
   Bond market analysts said market participants were
heartened by those remarks because they suggested that
foreign investors will remain major participants in the U.S.
bond market.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Resolution Funding Corp. plans to sell $3.5 billion
40-year bonds Tuesday, the proceeds of which will be used to
finance the bailout of the nation's savings and loan
industry.
   As expected, the size of the auction was smaller than that
of the previous 40-year Refcorp bond auction in January,
which totaled $5 billion. The large size of the previous
offering was viewed as one reason why the auction fared so
poorly. Strong demand was expected, but results were
daunting, and the issue's price quickly plunged in response.
   In when-issued trading activity, the Refcorp 40-year bond
was quoted late yesterday at a yield of 8.82% to 8.83%.
   The Treasury also announced it will sell $7.5 billion of
new seven-year notes on Wednesday. In when-issued trading,
the seven-year notes were quoted at 8.58%.
   In other trading, the benchmark 30-year bond ended at a
price of 99 25/32 to yield 8.51% compared with Tuesday's
price of 98 23/32 to yield 8.61%. The latest 10-year bond
ended at 99 18/32 to yield 8.55% compared with 99 2/32 to
yield 8.62%.
   Short-term rates fell sharply yesterday. The discount rate
on three-month Treasury bills ended at 7.74% for a
bond-equivalent yield of 7.98% while the rate on six-month
bills ended at 7.70% for a bond-equivalent yield of 8.10%.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   One of the widely held junk bonds of RJR Nabisco Inc. fell
sharply yesterday because, in the terms of Wall Street
traders, the bond went "ex-interest payment."
   That means that bond holders who buy bonds after a certain
date, in this case Tuesday, won't receive accrued interest
payments for the preceding period. Typically, securities
prices move up by the dollar amount of the interest payment
as the ex-interest date approaches, then prices fall by the
amount of the interest payment after the payment date.
   Yesterday, RJR's 13.71% exchangeable pay-in-kind
debentures dropped 3 1/2-points to 64 1/2 after the $4.1
billion issue went "ex-interest payment." The accrued
interest payment on the 13.71% PIK issue was $68.55 per
$1,000 face amount bond.
   A spokeswoman for the New York Stock Exchange said the
exchange marked down the bonds by 6 7/8 points to a price of
61 1/8 before trading began, so as to reflect the loss of the
accrued interest.
   However, since the interest on the RJR PIK bonds is paid
in the form of additional bonds rather than in cash, the
bonds rose during trading to reflect what market participants
believe is the value of the interest payment when paid in
bonds.
   The other RJR PIK issue, the 13.71% convertible debentures
maturing in 2009, advanced 7/8 point to 77 7/8.
   Other junk bonds, or speculative-grade securities with low
credit ratings or no credit ratings at all, were mixed. A
sell-off in the stock market pulled distressed junk bond
prices lower, but market participants said better quality
issues were generally unchanged to slightly firmer.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals
                                                                                                       

   A strengthening U.S. Treasury market pulled tax-exempts
higher, with municipal bonds trading as much as 1/4 point
higher.
   While municipals didn't post the gains seen by government
securities, the spurt of trading activity did carry over,
traders said.
   Some market participants also saw the increase in activity
as an opportunity to sell some bonds, several traders said.
   Among seasoned dollar bonds, New Jersey Turnpike Authority
7.20% securities of 2018 were up 1/4 point at 97 3/8 to 97
5/8 to yield 7.40%, which was .02 percentage point lower than
yields quoted late Tuesday.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   British government bonds, called gilts, rose on increased
retail buying and a firm pound.
   Among benchmarks, the 11 3/4% gilt due 2003-2007 rose
19/32 to 99 1/4 to yield 11.85%, while the 12% gilt due 1995
was up 10/32 to 97 6/32 to yield 12.78%.
   Traders said some institutions took advantage of the lull
in the market to boost portfolio holdings.
   In Japan, government bonds ended slightly weaker. Dealers
said trading activity was limited by the prospect that the
government will auction 10-year government bonds today.
   The monthly auction for 10-year government bonds isn't
scheduled for today but is likely to be held if parliament
can pass the temporary budget for the new fiscal year, which
began Sunday.
   At the close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the yield on the
benchmark No. 119 issue due 1999 was 7.3%. The price was down
0.19, at 86.25.
   West German bonds ended little changed in quiet trading.

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage-backed securities were higher, but they
lagged the performance in the Treasury market.
   Government National Mortgage Associations 9% securities
for April delivery were quoted at 96 2/32, up 7/32, to yield
about 9.71%.
   The spread between Ginnie Mae 9% securities and the
10-year Treasury note widened to 1.16 percentage points from
about 1.13 percentage points late Wednesday.
   Federal National Mortgage Association 9 1/2% securities
were at 98 15/32, up 7/32.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wall Street Grows Treacherous for Analysts Who Speak Out
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Peter Sidoti, former health-care analyst at
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., recalls the fireworks when he
wrote a negative report about one of the firm's
investment-banking clients.
   The corporate-finance department "went to Mike Milken, who
called up the research director and gave him hell for
jeopardizing business with a corporate-finance client," he
says. While his boss stood up for him, Mr. Sidoti says, in
the end the report wasn't issued.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wall Street securities analysts have always had to fight
pressures to inflate their opinions of the companies they
follow. But these pressures are mounting as Wall Street
struggles to survive the recession gripping the securities
industry.
   To some extent, the pressures come from outside -- as in
the recent case of a Janney Montgomery Scott Inc. analyst
fired after Donald Trump threatened to sue because of the
analyst's comments.
   But analysts are also feeling the heat more than ever from
within their own firms. Brokerage houses insist they maintain
a "Chinese Wall," completely separating their corporate
finance and research departments. Yet at time of
belt-tightening on Wall Street, when a number of firms have
been shrinking research staffs, many analysts worry that an
inappropriate opinion can land them in the frying pan.
   "It's increasingly common that the investment-banking
division would get analysts fired," says Barry Greenfield,
portfolio manager of Fidelity Investments' Fidelity Fund.
"I've seen some research departments on Wall Street fall
apart in the past few years."
   Robert Diener, president of American Health Properties
Inc., a real-estate investment trust, says that some
investment bankers have "implied that ratings {on his
company} would rise if we did business with them."
   Some investment professionals say that analysts face less
pressure at firms that lack a strong corporate-finance
business. Even where the pressures do exist, many analysts do
manage to withstand them. But enough don't that at least some
of the people who use their reports are dubious about their
opinions.
   "The first thing I look at is whether the firm is the
investment banker for the company" the analyst is
recommending, says Todd Schubert, an analyst with USAA
Investment Management. "I'm a little skeptical and cynical at
this point."
   Whatever the reasons, brokerage houses make many more
"buy" recommendations than "sell" recommendations. A tally of
Wall Street recommendations on 1,500 companies by Zacks
Investment Research Inc., in Chicago, shows that 44.6% are
"buys" or "strong buys," and 45.6% are "holds." Only 9.7% are
"sells" or "strong sells."
   Mr. Sidoti's experience at Drexel, which happened in 1987,
illustrates the internal pressures on Wall Street analysts.
He says there was "a lot of yelling and screaming" when he
wrote the negative report on the firm's corporate-finance
client. He declines to name the company, but says the report
"was rewritten to make it more palatable." But not even that
was enough to head off intervention by junk-bond king Michael
Milken, he says.
   Mr. Sidoti is currently at County NatWest Securities USA,
whose president and chief executive officer, Arthur Kirsch,
was Drexel's research director at the time of the incident.
He "stood up for me," Mr. Sidoti says.
   "Clearly, we did work with the corporate-finance
department, but we went out of our way to maintain
independence," says Mr. Kirsch, who confirms the incident.
   John Katz, who was associate research director at Drexel,
is more blunt: "Milken was strongly supportive of his
clients, and did a hell of a job for them."
   The research department "did our darndest to resist"
pressure from corporate finance, says Mr. Katz. "Sometimes we
won, and sometimes along the way compromises took place. I've
certainly seen other research materials go out that made me
throw up."
   Still, he says, "We made it clear when we had a bias, when
we had an underwriting relationship." As a result, he says,
the thinking was that institutional investors using the
Drexel research reports had a red flag, "and unless they were
completely stupid, they'd do a double check with someone with
less involvement."
   A spokesman for Mr. Milken denies the incident. A
spokesman for Drexel, which is in liquidation, declines to
comment.
   The sort of pressures encountered by Mr. Sidoti have
become more common as Wall Street firms, faced with depressed
retail-brokerage business, junk-bond jitters and a sharp
falloff in merger-and-acquisition activity, fight to hold
onto a piece of the shrinking underwriting pie. "Everyone's
trying to pay the rent right now, so the pressure's greater,"
says Kenneth Statz, a managing director at Chancellor Capital
Management.
   In November, Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. chemical analyst Paul
Leming found himself in trouble when Occidental Petroleum
Corp. disagreed with his negative comments. Among other
things, Mr. Leming observed that the price of Occidental
shares rose when 91-year-old Chairman Armand Hammer underwent
surgery for a heart pacemaker and suggested that Morgan
Stanley customers be ready to sell if Mr. Hammer died.
   Mr. Leming declines to comment, but people familiar with
the situation say that Occidental Petroleum officials
complained to Morgan Stanley and that the report was amended.
Mr. Leming subsequently stopped covering Occidental and has
since been promoted to principal at the investment banking
firm. Morgan Stanley declined to comment, as did Occidental
Petroleum.
   Even if the corporate-finance side is quiescent, analysts
can still get their arms twisted. "The pressure is always
there" to give favorable ratings, says Jack Rivkin, director
of research for Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
   Most common, he says, is a company's "explicitly or
implicitly threatening to withdraw {investment banking}
business." Intimidation also arises "when you run into a
company run by an egomaniac, or when you run into a small
company."
   When a Shearson analyst downgraded one stock, Mr. Rivkin
remembers, the company's chief executive wouldn't speak to
him for four years -- and then, only after the analyst
upgraded the stock.
   Jonathan Gray, who follows savings and loans for Sanford
C. Bernstein, recalls that when he put out negative reports
on Financial Corp. of America, "the company tried to shut me
up with the implied threat of a lawsuit." But, he said, the
chairman of his firm backed him up. Soon thereafter, FCA went
bankrupt.
   Whatever the source of the pressure, Wall Street research
chiefs say it is essential to resist. If an analyst comes to
be "viewed as a mouthpiece for investment banking, their
career is over," says Michael Culp, director of research at
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. As far as he is concerned,
"The best mark of an analyst is having two managements that
want you dead."
   Still, analysts sometimes find it possible to skirt the
issue. More and more, brokerage firms are switching from a
simple buy-hold-sell rating system to one with as many as six
layers that may include: strong buy, buy, outperform,
attractive, hold, accumulate, neutral, long-term attractive,
underperform, sell and strong sell.
   Ostensibly, the gradations make it possible for analysts
to express subtle differences in their feelings about
companies. But some analysts and institutional investors say
the new ratings can also allow considerable wiggle room.
   As for making an outright sell recommendation, some
analysts joke that it would be practically heretical.
Besides, says one analyst, "a `buy' is more sexy." Brokers
"can call everyone who owns {the stock}, and everyone who
doesn't."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Lynn Asinof
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MARKETING, ADVERTISING (MKT)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   TROUBLED TIMES mean big business for bankruptcy
specialists and others.
   Business activity has shifted to "the dark side of the
planet," says bankruptcy lawyer Brad Scheler of Fried, Frank,
Harris, Shriver &amp; Jacobson. "Everybody believes that
bankruptcy and workouts are the current rage," prompting a
lot of people to develop products tailored to this market. He
has a seven-inch file filled with fliers and letters from
companies offering such services. Among them: accountants,
liquidators, software companies, consultants and appraisal
firms.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consultant Claudia King &amp; Associates, Jersey City, N.J.,
which specializes in software for handling Chapter 11
paperwork, has doubled its staff in the past year. "We're
probably busier than we've ever been," says New York-based
turnaround specialist Abe Getzler, a 20-year veteran. He's
become "selective" about clients.
   Fueling the growth: a population that is "less reluctant"
to resort to the bankruptcy court, says New Jersey bankruptcy
attorney Peter Sarasohn.
                                                                                                       

   U.S. THEATERS boast impressive gains, but fear coming
cutbacks.
   A survey of 192 nonprofit professional companies shows
"unprecedented" financial and audience growth in 1989, says
Barbara Janowitz of the Theatre Communications Group. "Earned
income, operating expenses and contributed income all
registered double-digit growth in 1989." But hidden in those
figures are some real problems, she says, noting that some
half dozen theaters have closed in the past nine months.
   Survivors are girding for possible erosion in their
corporate and government support. Crossroads Theatre Co., New
Brunswick, N.J., is facing "some pretty serious cuts" due to
the state's current fiscal crunch, says Andre Robinson Jr.,
general manager. Competition for foundation dollars from the
homeless and other causes will make 1990-91 feel a bit
tighter, says Barry Grove of the Manhattan Theatre Club.
Hartford Stage Co. plans larger ticket price increases
because individual support is one area "we've got some
control over," says managing director David Hawkanson.
                                                                                                       

   PROFIT GYRATIONS are likely under future accounting rules.
   The Financial Accounting Standards Board has launched a
controversial project to more accurately value financial
instruments -- ranging from debt swaps to stock options.
"Seeking latest values -- called marking to market -- could
sharply boost earnings volatility," says a Citicorp official.
The project follows recent woes of banks and thrifts, whose
financial reports didn't give enough warning of coming
problems.
   Some corporate critics say the change may confuse rather
than help investors. But Halsey Bullen, an FASB project
manager, says up-to-date tags for financial instruments
"better reflect current rapidly changing unstable financial
markets." A first step: a just-issued FASB rule requiring
worst-case scenarios on credit risks. Some banks already call
it "overalarming disclosure." Bankers Trust's maximum
exposure of $6.5 billion on currency and interest rate swaps,
for example, dwarfs 1989 profit of $620 million after
foreign-loan set-asides.
   The reason: It "assumes all parties won't pay up," says
the bank's controller Richard Carbone.
                                                                                                       

   SMOKELESS SLOPES: Tobacco companies won't be sponsoring
any more events on Aspen Skiing Co. mountains. Says Robert
Maynard, president, such corporate sponsorship isn't
"consistent with a healthy family sport like skiing."
                                                                                                       

   CAPITAL SPENDING will slip in 1990, according to a Dun &amp;
Bradstreet Corp. survey. Some 41% of companies said they'll
boost spending on plants and equipment, down from 46% last
year. But plans don't mean action. Last year only 23.3%
actually expanded their capital program.
                                                                                                       

   BLEACHER BUSINESS: Houston Astros season-ticket holders
can now wheel and deal from the ballpark. Houston Cellular
Telephone Co. will take a phone message, then cart a cellular
phone to the fan's seat, along with a portable fax machine
and a laptop computer.
                                                                                                       

   TRANSLATE THIS, more firms say, as their marketing crosses
more borders.
   The number of translators is growing as American business
learns to deal with "a world in which America is no longer
the predominant economic power," says Tom Snow, a New York
translator. One area of big demand: translations of Japanese
patent applications into English, says Deanna Hammond of the
American Translators Association, Ossining, N.Y. Translation
of U.S. ads into European languages is also a growing market
as 1992 Common Market integration nears, says Translation
Aces, N.Y.
   Changes in Eastern Europe are just beginning to hit the
translation market. Accurapid Translation Services Inc.,
Poughkeepsie, N.Y., is asked to translate Hungarian balance
sheets and other corporate data for U.S. investors. High-tech
vocabulary makes the job tougher. It's growing so fast "it's
difficult to stay abreast of all the language changes," says
Shuckran Kamal, Herndon, Va., translator of Arabic.
   As demand grows, translators begin to organize, lobbying
on phone rates and other matters affecting their business.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: "The Conative Connection" by Kathy Kolbe shows up
on the Denver Post's best seller list as "The Cognitive
Collection." . . . The swimming pool is the most important
factor in selecting a vacation hotel, say 72% of children in
a survey for Holiday Inn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Delta Air Lines Says
   Profit Fell in Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Delta Air Lines said it estimates its net
income for the March quarter was far lower than last year's
results, although it still will report a profit.
   The airline said its profit margin was being squeezed by a
combination of softer demand by leisure travelers and higher
fuel prices. In addition, last year's quarter showed
particularly high profits because Delta's main competitor in
its Atlanta hub, Eastern Airlines, had been hit by a strike
and practically grounded.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thomas J. Roeck, Delta's senior vice president of finance
and chief financial officer, said in a statement that while
fuel prices have declined somewhat since last year, they will
still drive up fuel expenses for the first three months by
$85 million to $90 million.
   Separately, Delta said its March traffic fell 4.7% to 5.05
billion revenue passenger miles from 5.3 billion miles last
year. A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown
one mile. Load factor, or the percentage of seats filled,
also dropped sharply for the month to 61.5% from 68.7% a year
ago.
   For the year to date, Delta said it flew 13.61 billion
revenue passenger miles, up slightly from last year's 13.57
billion miles. Load factor for the first three months was
57.5%, down from 61% in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Maxtor Corp. Offer
   To Buy MiniScribe
   Accepted by Court
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MXTR MINQE
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Maxtor Corp. said its bid to buy
substantially all the assets of troubled disk-drive maker
MiniScribe Corp. was accepted by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Denver.
   Maxtor's bid totaled $46 million, consisting of $21.5
million in cash, $20 million in stock, and $4.5 million in
cash and accounts receivable to be released by MiniScribe's
Hong Kong and Singapore facilities. A Maxtor spokeswoman said
she couldn't elaborate on the breakdown.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MiniScribe, based in Longmont, Colo., has been operating
under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code since the
beginning of the year. In January, the company said it would
sell its assets to the highest bidder so that new investors
could start with a clean slate and creditors could divide the
proceeds.
   Wearnes Technology of Singapore also bid for MiniScribe's
assets.
   MiniScribe, which last year said its previous management
had improperly manipulated its financial results, sought
protection from creditors under the federal Bankruptcy Code
after it was unable to settle a number of shareholder and
bondholder lawsuits against it.
   The Maxtor spokeswoman said the company won't be acquiring
any of MiniScribe's debts, or any liability for lawsuits.
Maxtor is a maker of data-storage products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Amre Inc.:
   Management Group to Bid
   For Shares It Doesn't Own
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AMM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Amre Inc., Dallas, said a management group expects to
propose an acquisition of the shares of the company it
doesn't already own for $8.75 a share, subject to financing
and certain other conditions.
   The company, which markets home-improvement products under
the Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. name, said a special committee of
its board had met with the group, which consists of Steven D.
Bedowitze, president; Robert Levin, executive vice president;
and Ronald I. Wagner, senior vice president.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Collectively, the management group already owns about 56%
of Amre's common stock outstanding, the company said.
   Amre said a special committee of outside directors would
evaluate any offer that is made, but a company spokesman
declined to discuss details or say when an offer might be
expected.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Amre closed
at $7.875, down 37.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Cie Generale d'Electricite:
   French Holding Company's
   Earnings Surged in 1989
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.CGE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cie. Generale d'Electricite (CGE) said profit after
payments to minority interests surged to 4.94 billion francs
($865 million) in 1989 from 2.16 billion francs ($378
million) in the previous year, as the French holding company
pursued a variety of acquisitions and alliances to expand its
business internationally.
   Pierre Suard, CGE chief executive officer, said at a news
conference that 1989 was a "very prosperous and rich year"
that saw the electricity group's consolidated revenue rise to
143.9 billion francs from 128 billion in 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Suard said the CGE executive board has proposed to
boost the per-share dividend to 11 francs from the nine
francs a share paid out in 1988.
   Mr. Suard also announced that the company plans to issue a
five billion-franc convertible bond issue to help finance
recent acquisitions and to prepare CGE for other
"opportunities" that appear in the future.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   TIMOTHY RYAN WON Senate approval to be the nation's top
savings and loan regulator, effectively nullifying a court
decision that had derailed the overhaul of the S&amp;L industry.
The surprisingly wide margin of 62-37 in favor of Ryan
followed a six-hour debate about whether the labor lawyer is
qualified for the job.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   UAL's board meets today to consider a sweetened buy-out
bid from United Air's unions valued at over $200 a share, or
$4.36 billion. Though several directors appeared to favor the
new bid, it faces strong opposition from UAL's chairman,
Stephen Wolf.
   ---
   Circle K reached a preliminary accord with senior
creditors and its largest shareholder to delay debt payments
for seven months, narrowly averting a partial default.
   ---
   Ford agreed to pay $6 million to settle a personal-injury
suit involving lap-only seat belts in the rear seats of its
Escort model. The huge settlement likely will add impetus to
the debate over the safety of such belts.
   ---
   Treasury bonds rallied and stocks fell on rumors that a
big institutional investor in the Tokyo stock market was in
financial trouble. The Dow Jones industrials closed off
17.34, at 2719.37. The dollar finished mixed.
                                                                                                       

   The Group of Seven industrial nations gather in Paris this
Saturday to try to shore up the yen and improve the
coordination of economic policy.
   ---
   Baxter International will take a $566 million
first-quarter charge to cover plant closings, a 10% cut in
its work force, and the elimination of certain lines. The
charge will nearly wipe out the health-care products and
services firm's profit for the year.
   ---
   U.S. car and truck sales rose 2.9% in late March, helped
by hefty cash rebates and some unusual incentives. The gain
sparked optimism among auto makers despite continued
uncertainty about the economy and rates.
   ---
   Tax-increase options being prepared for the House Budget
panel's chairman include raising the top corporate rate and
limiting the deduction for state and local taxes.
   ---
   Stock mutual funds generally beat the market for the first
time in two years, though they still were down an average
2.31% for the first quarter.
   ---
   Bank of New England plans to cut its work force by 5,600
employees, or about one-third, as expected. But the bank
acknowledged it faces further increases in nonperforming
assets and loan-loss provisions.
   ---
   Most of Bonwit Teller's retail stores were ordered
liquidated by a bankruptcy court, which rejected lastminute
appeals to save the chain.
   ---
   News Corp.'s Fox Film unit is joining the growing wave of
Hollywood studios and production firms seeking Japanese
financial backing.
   ---
   The alcoholic-beverage industry is in a rage over a bill
introduced in Congress yesterday that would require health
warnings in all ads.
   ---
   A big Avon shareholder, Chartwell Associates, boosted its
stake to over 15% from 10%, sources said. Avon's stock
climbed $1.25, to $35.25.
   ---
   Tougher job-discrimination rules were approved by the
Senate Labor panel. The bill is aimed at countering recent
Supreme Court decisions that made job bias harder to prove.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 159,540,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2719.37, off 17.34; transportation 1182.25, off 6.58;
utilities 214.47, off 1.07.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3343.05, up
29.23.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.93, up 0.41; spot
index 133.25, up 0.02.
   Dollar: 158.95 yen, off 0.84; 1.6995 marks, up 0.0016.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Western Union Corp.:
   Service With IBM Is Set
   For Electronic Mail Systems
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WU IBM
</CO>
<LP>
   Western Union Corp., Upper Saddle River, N.J., and
International Business Machines Corp. said they agreed to
provide jointly a service that would enable customers to
communicate between each other's electronic mail systems.
   Both systems will integrate a communication standard known
as X.400, developed by the Consultative Committee for the
International Telephone and Telegraph, the international
standards committee.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The adoption of the standard will allow communication
between the IBM Information Network's Screenmail service and
Western Union 400 service, which is fully integrated with
Western Union's EasyLink electronic mail service.
   Western Union said the interconnection with IBM Screenmail
is "a further step to achieve a full and open
interconnection" with major public electronic messaging
systems. Western Union provides a broad range of messaging,
financial and other services. IBM is the Armonk, N.Y.-based
computer giant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Retreat 316.78 Points to 28442.94,
   As Previous Day's Bright Outlook Dims Slightly
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST CANDA G.VOW
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stock prices retreated as the comparatively bright
sentiment built the previous day was soured by growing
concern about the financial troubles of some speculator
groups.
   The Nikkei index of 225 issues, which advanced 757.65
points Tuesday, fell 316.78 points yesterday to 28442.94.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   London stocks, meanwhile, were lured lower on the mediocre
early showing from Wall Street.
   Tokyo's Nikkei index, which climbed above 29000 points
during the morning session, gave up its early gains quickly
at midafternoon as investors hurried to reduce their holdings
of speculative shares, including some local bank stocks.
Investors also took profits on high-tech and pharmaceutical
shares, traders said.
   The Nikkei, which was down 670 points at its intraday low,
bounced up 350 points in the last 20 minutes of the day,
helped by arbitrage buying, traders said.
   In Thursday morning trading, the Nikkei index plummeted
during the last hour of trading, finishing the session off
1088.94 to close at 27354, or down 3.8%. The trading day
began with losses of about 450 points. But that accelerated
sharply, one analyst said, after the market was hit by large
block sales of the Topix 1000 index-futures contract, sales
that may have been related to program trading. News of those
sales hastened the decline, with the Nikkei dropping about
400 points in the final half-hour of trading.
   Mike Morizumi, a strategist with Merrill Lynch in Tokyo,
said the market ignored such positive fundamentals as a
stronger yen. The Japanese currency was trading at 157.75 to
the dollar, strengthening from Wednesday's Tokyo close of
158.90.
   Mr. Morizumi said investors appeared preoccupied with
rumors swirling through the market about problems affecting
brokerage firms and investor groups caught by the market's
recent steep decline. "There's broad-based panic selling in
all sectors of the market," he said.
   Volume yesterday on the first section was estimated at 560
million shares, down from 645 million shares Tuesday. Losers
widely outnumbered winners 742 to 180, while 100 issues were
unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section lost 35.15 points, or 1.67%, to 2075.96. The
index gained 41.78 points Tuesday.
   The second section index, which lost 77.04 points Tuesday,
fell 95.45 points, or 2.66%, to 3490.62. Volume was estimated
at 12 million shares, up from nine million shares Tuesday.
   High-tech shares continued to lead advances in the early
part of the day, as they did Tuesday. The gains spawned
profit-taking, however, and prices in the sector fell by the
end of the morning session.
   It is becoming a "consensus" among investors that the
high-tech sector is the most reliable candidate to lead the
market in a rebound, said Atsushi Koishihara, general manager
of equity division at Taiheiyo Securities.
   But because of a lack of confidence in the market,
investors don't feel secure waiting for stock prices to rise
widely. The investors sell quickly to take advantage of
slight rises in prices, the official said.
   Meanwhile, the financial trouble of groups of stock
speculators fueled fear that withdrawal of their money would
have a larger-than-usual impact on the already bearish
market, traders said. Such groups are under pressure from the
continuous fall of stock prices.
   Only shares that have been the target of the groups fell
on such talk in the morning. But the talk gradually
discouraged buying interest in other shares in the afternoon,
stimulating investors to hurry to take profits, traders said.
   Shigeru Akiba, head of the equity division at UBS Phillips
&amp; Drew International, noted that some stocks surged last year
because of speculative buying regardless of the companies'
earnings.
   Rounds of selling need to be completed to eliminate such
"bubbles" from stock prices, Mr. Akiba said. He added that
such a retreat is one of the processes the market needs to
undergo before recovering.
   High-tech shares finished broadly lower on profit taking.
Kyocera, which advanced 540 yen ($3.39) Tuesday to its
highest level this year, fell 230 yen to 7670 yen. Fanuc was
down 250 yen to 7230 yen, while Pioneer declined 150 yen to
6200 yen.
   Among stocks that are rumored to be held by speculator
groups, Citizen Watch dropped 52 yen to 868 yen. Honshu Paper
lost 300 yen to 1390 yen, while Kyokuyo went down 100 yen to
960 yen.
   London stocks were generally flat for most of the session,
market watchers said, with little turnover or stimulus to
trade. Traders said the market is severely lacking in
inspiration. "There are a few stories out there but there's
nothing driving the market," said one dealer. "We're lacking
motivation."
   The combination of Monday's steep losses and Tuesday's
smart gains have served to confuse investors, traders said,
adding that these conditions are likely to persist until a
clearer near-term trend is spotted.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 share index fell
9.1 points to 2231.6. The early morning peak was 2247.5; the
index fell as low as 2229.2 in the afternoon.
   The Financial Times 30 share index was down 11.6 points to
1749.7. By recent standards, volume registered a respectable
505.4 million shares, down from the 553.4 million shares
Tuesday.
   Among individual stocks, Hammerson jumped 28 pence to 789
pence after positive responses from analysts touring the
company's European bases, dealers said.
   BAA, the British airports management group, slipped 19
pence to 386 pence following an announcement by Bermuda-based
ADT Ltd. that said it will issue new ADT preference shares,
exchangeable into BAA ordinary shares, to raise #100 million.
ADT controls about 9% of BAA.
   Eurotunnel added 15 pence to 593 pence on the disclosure
of its latest drilling progress report, which said that the
achievement of a mile or more a week is now possible.
Eurotunnel's shares in Paris also gained.
   Sun Alliance advanced 15.5 pence to 303.5 pence. The
composite insurer disclosed full-year earnings that were
largely in line with the market forecasts, but there was
optimism on announcement of a 22% jump in the dividend. One
analyst suggested that the stock is a good value. "The sector
as a whole is one of the best in the market and Sun Alliance
is one of the best-yielding stocks," he said, adding that the
stock is an "absolute cracker" despite market fears that
circulated before the results were disclosed.
   Reuters added 16 pence to #11.59 on top of its 36-pence
jump a day earlier. Dealers said the shares continue to be
bolstered by good comments from analysts meeting this week in
New York and London.
   Lowndes Queensway, the heavily indebted retailer, shed 3/4
pence to 2 1/2 pence, as talk circulated that the household
stores group may have to go into receivership soon.
   J. Sainsbury shed 2 pence to 247 pence, while Tesco
slipped 2.5 pence to 194.5 pence on talk that the two food
retailers look set to enter a price war.
   Elsewhere in Europe, prices rose in Paris, Amsterdam,
Stockholm, Helsinki and Milan, were lower in Frankfurt, and
mixed in Zurich.
   Meanwhile, prices fell in Singapore, Taipei and Seoul,
were mixed in Hong Kong and Wellington, and higher in Sydney
and Manila.
   Separately, Volkswagen AG said it will raise its per-share
dividend on common stock to 11 Deutsche marks from 10 marks.
The West German auto group said it will boost its payout on
nonvoting preferred stock to 12 marks each from 11 marks. The
increase has to be approved by shareholders at the annual
meeting July 19.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                      % This
                                      Apr 3   Apr 2    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ............................. 316.5   312.2   -  2.6
   Britain .........................  665.3   660.3   -  7.7
   Canada ........................    399.8   395.5   -  7.6
   Japan ..........................  1187.0  1146.8   - 28.3
   France ........................    555.0   544.2   -  2.1
   Germany .....................      316.1   310.9   + 10.8
   Hong Kong ..................      2199.0  2171.1   +  4.9
   Switzerland .................      204.7   202.8   -  7.3
   Australia .....................    303.2   303.4   -  8.5
   World index ..............         478.5   468.3   - 15.7
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Investment Boutiques See Success as Something Special
   ---
   Vector Securities and Others Turn
   Narrow Fields Into Green Pastures
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   {Second of two articles on investment banking for smaller
companies.}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tiny, highly specialized investment boutiques are thriving
even as bigger Wall Street firms slump.
   For one, Vector Securities International Inc. in just more
than two years has built a profitable business with annual
revenue of more than $8 million by focusing on one narrow
class of clients. The Deerfield, Ill., concern operates
nationally, but only within the life-sciences industry.
   To find financing for clients, and to perform other
services, Vector acts as a matchmaker to bring small and big
companies together, for anything from a complex merger to a
simple marketing agreement.
   When Seradyn Inc., an Indianapolis maker of
medical-diagnostic equipment, needed a big cash infusion to
fund its rapid growth, Vector quickly arranged last year for
Mitsubishi Kasei Corp., a large Japanese chemical company, to
acquire Seradyn in a $25 million transaction. More recently,
Xoma Corp., a Berkeley, Calif., biotechnology concern, needed
to finance and market two drugs for so-called immune-related
disorders. Vector deftly arranged a development-and-marketing
agreement -- announced last month -- between Xoma and Ortho
Pharmaceutical Corp., a subsidiary of Johnson &amp; Johnson, the
giant New Jersey-based maker of health-care products.
   Through such deals, Vector and the few other such highly
specialized firms that exist so far are finding a lucrative
role: They are actively seeking transactions much smaller --
and sometimes much more arcane -- than are normally
considered by big Wall Street firms. In Chicago, for example,
First Analysis Corp. focuses on clients in waste management
and environmental services. In Parsippany, N.J., Anantha
Raman &amp; Co. provides financial research and strategic advice
to chemical businesses.
   The emergence of these specialty firms benefits small
entrepreneurial companies, says Steven Burrill, director of
the San Francisco-based high-technology practice of the
accounting firm Ernst &amp; Young. At most Wall Street firms, the
needs of small entrepreneurial concerns aren't big enough to
attract attention, he says. On the other hand, he adds, "The
growth of these boutiques depends entirely on how much they
can help small companies grow."
   More such boutiques are expected to emerge soon, says
Michael Goldberg, a physician and former First Boston Corp.
investment banker who heads New York-based Montaur Capital
Corp., a new investment bank for health-care companies. Dr.
Goldberg explains that small operating companies increasingly
are seeking alliances with big corporate partners, such as
research-and-marketing agreements. Meanwhile, many big
companies are turning to smaller concerns for new ideas and
new products, he says.
   Those trends have meant rapid success for such go-betweens
as Vector, the most active of the boutiques. Vector was
founded in 1988 by Theodore Berghorst, James Foght and Peter
Drake, all former partners of Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., a New
York securities firm controlled by General Electric Co.
   In 1986, when "biotechnology was seen as a magic bullet,"
Mr. Berghorst says, Kidder asked him to create his own
specialized team to serve the "bugs-and-mice crowd," as he
puts it. Even though the business would focus on small
companies and expected rewards were long term, "Kidder wanted
to be positioned for the 1990s when the industry really took
off," he says.
   But after the Black Monday crash in October 1987, Kidder
stressed short-term profit, and Mr. Berghorst's unit fell
into disfavor. At the end of 1987, he decided to leave
Kidder, move to Deerfield (a Chicago suburb) and, along with
Messrs. Foght and Drake, start Vector. "We wanted the
opportunity to focus on one industry and not be distracted by
the concerns of a larger firm," Mr. Foght says.
   Vector has prepared well for its new role, industry
watchers say. "While most investment bankers in the
life-sciences still are into number crunching, Vector
understands the science," says Jeffrey Jay, a physician who
is an associate at Canaan Partners, a Rowayton, Conn.,
venture-capital firm. That helps Vector make corporate
matches between partners with compatible scientific goals.
   In retaining boutiques such as Vector, clients pay fees --
usually totaling between 3% and 5% of the value of the
underlying transaction. But the transactions are complicated;
many involve several fees, some guaranteed, others contingent
on future developments. Xoma, which sold Ortho specific
rights to a set of drugs still in development while retaining
others, paid Vector more than $1.5 million in fees on a
transaction that might reach $50 million in value, depending
on contingencies.
   The complexity of these deals and the relatively small
fees -- small by Wall Street standards, anyway -- would make
them unprofitable for most big investment banks, says John
Wilkerson, a New York-based consultant to health-care
businesses. But without the huge overheads of the big firms,
and with a small and versatile staff, Vector, for one, can do
such deals quite profitably, he adds.
   With limited capital, the boutiques are hardly a major
force in the financial markets, but they are crucial
catalysts for the small clients they serve. Montaur's Dr.
Goldberg adds that the firms, though small, can develop
business relationships that permit them to offer a broad
range of financial services. Vector, for example, can buy or
sell blocks of stock for clients because of an arrangement
with a securities unit of Equitable Life Assurance Society of
the U.S. Vector also reaches a broad investor base for
analytical reports that it circulates by using the
distribution services of Blunt Ellis &amp; Loewi, a Milwaukee
securities broker.
   And to position itself in international markets --
especially Japan, where many prospective corporate buyers and
partners are situated -- Vector says it is working jointly on
some transactions with Yamaichi Securities Co., a major
Japanese securities concern.
   For all their activity, the specialty firms say their
strength will be in staying small. In fact, becoming larger
might actually hurt a firm, because the leaders can no longer
pay attention to every client, says chemical-industry
specialist Anantha Raman. His New Jersey firm had grown to 20
people until he decided last year to halve that number. "We
quickly realized that our strength was not in the number of
deals we did," he says, "but in the quality of services we
provided."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Heritage Inc.
   Sets a Merger Accord
   With Life Care Centers
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NHR SM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- National Heritage Inc., a troubled nursing-home
management concern, said it agreed to merge with Life Care
Centers of America in a stock transaction.
   Terms call for the two companies to become a new concern
under the Life Care name. Current National Heritage
stockholders would receive one share of stock in the new
company for each common share now owned, giving them almost
40% of the new concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Owners of Life Care Centers, a closely held company based
in Cleveland, Tenn., and its affiliates would receive about
26 million new common shares, or just over 60% of the new
company. The companies said the stock is expected to be
publicly traded.
   The merger is contingent on the companies reaching a
separate agreement with Southmark Corp., a troubled thrift
and real-estate concern that directly owns about 22% of
National Heritage. The transaction calls for Southmark to
contribute three leased health-care properties and mortgages,
advances to its health-care limited partnerships and its
general partnership interests in its health-care limited
partnerships to the new company in exchange for preferred
stock.
   The merger, which is subject to several conditions, is
expected to be completed in the fall, and the companies said
the valuation of the assets contributed to the new concern
could change before then. Pro forma financial statements from
Life Care aren't expected until the end of this month.
   National Heritage, which operates nursing homes and
retirement centers, many of which are owned by Southmark
partnerships, also said it has reserved the right to
negotiate with other parties interest in acquiring it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Air Products &amp; Chemicals Inc.:
   Unit Gets Options on Stake
   Of 5.9% in Spanish Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   APD E.CAR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Air Products &amp; Chemicals Inc. said a subsidiary acquired
options on a 5.9% stake of Carburos Metalicos S.A., which, if
exercised, would boost Air Products' share of the Spanish
industrial gas and metal concern to about 30%.
   The Allentown, Pa., company said that the cost and
exercise price of the options, which are exercisable over the
next four years, would involve a transaction of about $75
million at current exchange rates. Air Products received
immediate voting rights for the optioned shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An Air Products spokesman said the options agreement is
part of the company's strategic expansion in Europe.
   In connection with the agreement, Ron Sullam, a vice
president with Air Products Europe, was named senior vice
chairman of Carburos Metalicos. Two more Air Products
representatives are expected to be added to the Spanish
concern's board, bringing Air Products' representation to
four members.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Rogers Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ROG WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ROGERS Corp. (Rogers, Conn.) -- D. Bruce Merrifield,
holder of the Walter Bladstrom Chair for professor of
management at the University of Pennsylvania Wharton School
of Business and formerly assistant secretary of Commerce, was
named a director of this maker of electronic interconnection
materials and parts. William Thurston, chairman of GenRad
Inc., was also named a director. The latest actions expand
the board to 10 members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Whitehall Corp.:
   Board Will Oppose Effort
   By Firm for Proxy Fight
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WHT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Whitehall Corp. said its board will "vigorously oppose" an
effort by Cambridge Capital Fund L.P. to lead a proxy fight
against the company.
   Cambridge, a New York investment company, yesterday
proposed acquiring the 90.4% of Whitehall that it doesn't
already own for $20 a share and said it plans to nominate
five directors to Whitehall's board at the company's annual
shareholders meeting April 23.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Whitehall said that all its shareholders should be allowed
to "realize the full value of its strategies," which have
left the company debt-free and with more than $10 a share in
cash and equivalents.
   Whitehall's chairman, Lee D. Webster, said in a news
release that the company's board will consider Cambridge's
takeover proposal "in due course."
   Whitehall, based in Dallas, modifies and maintains
aircraft, sells underwater acoustic technology to the U.S.
Navy and makes marine sensor systems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Accord Is Sought
   To Settle Lawsuits
   On Hammer Art
   ---
   Lawyer Says Shareholders
   Would Be Contributing
   To `National Treasure'
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OXY
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   WILMINGTON, Del. -- A lawyer defended Occidental Petroleum
Corp.'s planned outlays of $95 million for a museum to house
Chairman Armand Hammer's art collection as akin to the
purchase of the Louisiana territories and Alaska.
   William Prickett told the Court of Chancery in Delaware
that for "pennies per share," Occidental shareholders are
contributing to "a national treasure."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Prickett, a leading lawyer for a group of plaintiffs
proposing settlement of class-action suits with Occidental
over the museum plans, urged the court to approve the pact as
best for Occidental stockholders, the company and the public.
Occidental, based in Los Angeles, has interests in oil,
pipelines, chemicals, and meat packing.
   The settlement calls for, among other things, a $60
million cap on direct costs of the museum, provides for
outlays for museum support and sets a limit on future
Occidental donations to Hammer-related charities. It also
includes $1.4 million in fees plus expenses for plaintiffs'
lawyers involved in the pact, which was reached by one set of
litigants in the case but which is opposed by others.
   Mr. Prickett, who has in the past defended the much noted
proposed legal fees, backed away from the figure yesterday,
asserting that whatever amount is set by Vice Chancellor
Maurice Hartnett in the case will be acceptable.
   Opposing the proposed settlement, Susan E. Henricksen, a
California deputy attorney general, called the museum "a
waste of assets" that amounts to "a gift to Dr. Hammer." Ms.
Henricksen, appearing on behalf of the state's public pension
funds, which hold about two million shares of Occidental,
argued that the size of Occidental's outlays is so enormous
"as to raise reasonable doubt as to whether it is entitled to
protection" under a standard of Delaware jurisprudence known
as the "business judgment" rule, which protects certain
decisions by corporate managements and directors.
   Occidental has argued that a special committee of outside
directors approved the plan, removing it from assertions that
Dr. Hammer caused corporate funds to be spent for his
benefit.
   Vice Chancellor Hartnett reserved decision on the proposed
settlement.
   The museum, currently under construction in the Los
Angeles suburb of Westwood, is scheduled to open in November,
with a retrospective exhibit of the works of Soviet painter
Kasimir Malevich.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- United Technologies Inc.:
   Unit Gets Engine Orders
   Of $59 Million From China
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UTX FREST MD
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   United Technologies Inc.'s Pratt &amp; Whitney unit said it
received orders valued at $59 million to supply 20 JT8D-200
aircraft engines to the Chinese government.
   It also received an option for 20 more, bringing the
potential value of the order to $118 million. The engines
will power McDonnell Douglas MD-80 twinjets that the Chinese
will produce jointly with St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas
Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The engine order resulted from Shanghai Aviation
Industrial Corp. of Shanghai and China National
Aero-Technology Import &amp; Export Corp.'s agreement with
McDonnell Douglas to jointly build 10 MD-80 twinjets, with an
option for 10 more. Pratt &amp; Whitney's JT8D-200 engine is the
exclusive power plant for McDonnell Douglas MD-80 series
jets.
   United Technologies, based in Hartford, Conn., is an
aerospace and industrial products concern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pinnacle West Capital Corp.:
   Utility Company Sells Hotel
   To Unit of Kabuto Decom
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PNW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pinnacle West Capital Corp., Phoenix, Ariz., in a
long-awaited transaction, said it sold its Wigwam resort
hotel for $70 million to a unit of Kabuto Decom Inc., a
Japanese construction and real estate concern.
   Pinnacle West Capital, an electric utility holding company
whose ill-starred diversification efforts led it to the edge
of bankruptcy last year, has had the resort on the auction
block for about a year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The transaction, at a price somewhat lower than suggested
by analysts, is also apparently subject to substantial
performance guarantees by Pinnacle West that the resort will
live up to expectations.
   Under the sales agreement, Pinnacle West's SunCor
Development Co. real estate unit will continue to manage the
property. SunCor has guaranteed certain financial performance
at the resort and must make payments back to Kabuto if those
goals aren't met, John Ogden, president and chief executive
officer of SunCor said. He declined, however, to elaborate on
the guarantees.
   Mr. Ogden said the property has a book value of just over
$50 million, indicating a gain on the sale.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Baxter to Take
   Charge Totaling
   $566 Million
   ---
   Health-Products Firm Plans
   To Close Some Plants,
   Trim Staff, Shed Lines
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   BAX LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Baxter International Inc. said it will take a $566 million
first-quarter charge to cover the costs of plant closings,
trimming its 64,300-person work force 10% and shedding
several "marginal" lines.
   The charge is expected to nearly wipe out the health-care
products and services company's earnings for the year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also disclosed that it is considering the
future sale, through a public offering, of a minority stake
in its $1.4 billion diagnostics-products business.
   The moves announced yesterday were largely in line with
what analysts predicted following Baxter's statement in
January that it was evaluating "structural alternatives" and
would announce its decisions by the end of the quarter.
   In composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday,
Baxter shares were down 25 cents to close at $24.625,
although volume was nearly two million shares.
   Like its competitors, Baxter has been under pressure as a
result of increasingly cost-conscious hospitals and changes
in the government's health-care fee schedules.
   In addition, however, the company has been widely
criticized for the slowness with which expected savings from
its $3.7 billion acquisition of American Hospital Supply
Corp. in late 1985 have materialized. In particular, analysts
have objected to what they consider a bloated work force, and
lower-than-anticipated cash flow.
   "A lot of what they're doing is what they should have done
five years ago," said Salomon Brothers Inc. analyst Lorraine
Schwarz. The moves are "hopeful in the sense that {Baxter is}
finally biting the bullet," she said, but "you still have to
question the attractiveness of the businesses they're in."
   Lucy Olwell of Merrill Lynch Research said that while the
company's move promises "the quality of earnings will
improve," it indicates management "finally reacted to the
fact they hadn't successfully derived the synergies between
Baxter and American that were anticipated" when the deal
closed. "They should have done it sooner."
   In an interview, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Vernon R. Loucks Jr. disputed that interpretation, contending
that the expected savings have been "pretty well realized,"
but have been masked by industry pricing trends. The company
didn't move sooner, he said, because management, in "trying
to build long-term," felt "we had to understand what we had."
   Baxter declined to say which of its world-wide plants it
intends to shutter or consolidate under its "carefully
considered redeployment of human and capital resources,"
although it noted that the approximately 6,400 jobs to be cut
will include some administrative staff. It also declined to
identify the businesses -- with total annual sales of about
$140 million -- it plans to shed.
   The revamping will generate annual pretax savings of about
$275 million by 1993, Baxter said, and will allow the company
to increase outlays for alternate-site health care "and other
high-growth businesses," and to boost research expenditures.
Baxter also expects increased operating income and cash flow.
   But the company expects the charges to result in a loss of
about $1.50 a share for the first quarter. In all of 1989, it
had net income of $446 million, or $1.50 a share, on sales of
$7.4 billion.
   Although "the magnitude of Baxter's restructuring charge
is expected to nearly eliminate any net income for the full
year 1990," Moody's Investors Service said yesterday, the
rating agency confirmed its ratings on Baxter's approximately
$2.4 billion in debt. Moody's said it expects the program
"will have strong positive effects on future corporate
efficiency, profitability and cash flows." The rating company
added that it expects "substantially enhanced growth and
returns in the years ahead" for Baxter.
   Baxter also yesterday announced plans to establish a
separate subsidiary for its diagnostics-products business.
While it is "committed to diagnostics for the long term," the
company said, it has retained First Boston Corp. to help it
evaluate ways to enhance the business's "contribution to
shareholder value."
   One option, the company said, might be a public offering
of a minority interest in the new subsidiary, although Mr.
Loucks cautioned that no decision is imminent.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Marion Merrell Dow Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MKC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MARION MERRELL DOW Inc. (Kansas City, Mo.) -- David B.
Sharrock, 53-year-old executive vice president, was named
chief operating officer of this pharmaceuticals concern,
formalizing a role he holds at the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- ADAC Laboratories:
   Firm to Post Lower Sales,
   Earnings for Its 2nd Period
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ADAC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ADAC Laboratories said it expects to report substantially
lower revenue and earnings for its second quarter ended April
1, compared with the year-ago period.
   In the year-earlier second quarter, Milpitas, Calif.-based
ADAC posted net income of $4.1 million, or nine cents a
share, on revenue of $24 million. ADAC said earnings for the
most recent second quarter were near break-even. Revenue was
more than the $17.4 million posted in the first quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also said it "no longer believes" that sales
or earnings this fiscal year will increase over last. In the
last fiscal year, ADAC posted net income of $17.1 million, or
39 cents a share, on revenue of $98.1 million.
   ADAC sells medical imaging equipment. The company blamed
its lower results on increased competition and on its
customers' "restrictive capital equipment budgets."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Warrants Offer a Bet on Nikkei Rebound
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit and John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SB JAPAN MS F.SGF
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   One of the firms that three months ago gave investors a
chance to bet against the Japanese stock market now is
providing an opportunity to profit from that market's
recovery.
   Salomon Inc. yesterday offered to investors 6.5 million
warrants entitling holders to receive cash if the Nikkei
index of 225 leading stocks on the Tokyo Stock Exchange rises
above a predetermined level over the next three years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So far this year, the Japanese stock market has plunged
under the weight of soaring Japanese interest rates, a
weakening yen, fears of inflation and eroding confidence in
Japan's monetary authorities. As of yesterday, the Nikkei
index stood 27% below the peak levels it reached on the last
trading day of 1989.
   The Salomon warrants, which are being underwritten by
Salomon Brothers Inc., the company's securities subsidiary,
and Bear, Stearns &amp; Co., are designed for both individual and
institutional investors.
   The warrants, which were sold out at an initial offering
price of $2.99 each, began trading on the American Stock
Exchange yesterday at $3.375. They closed at $3.125, down 25
cents on a volume of 2.94 million warrants.
   Like options, warrants give holders the right, but not the
obligation, to sell (with put warrants) or purchase (with
call warrants) a security, currency, or, in this case, the
cash equivalent of a market index at a specific price on or
before a specific date.
   The new call warrants could be useful to speculators who
want to bet that Japanese stocks will finally recover from
their three-month tumble and investors who want to hedge
against short positions, or existing bets that the Tokyo
market will keep declining.
   Given the current gloomy situation in the Tokyo stock
market and frenzied trading conditions on several recent
days, the new warrants would seem suitable for only intrepid
investors. But people who bought the Nikkei put warrants,
which were issued by Salomon and several other U.S.
securities firms just before the Tokyo market began falling
sharply, so far have every reason to be pleased. The Nikkei's
27% decline this year has pushed the price of the warrants up
214% to 250%.
   The first Nikkei put warrants, designed by Goldman, Sachs
&amp; Co., were issued by the Kingdom of Denmark on Jan. 12. Five
days later, Salomon issued its warrants; it followed up with
a second series on Feb. 15.
   Earlier in February, Bankers Trust New York Corp. issued
Nikkei puts with Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. as chief underwriter. In
addition, Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. has announced plans to bring
out its own put warrants, and investment bankers say others
are in the pipeline.
   Salomon and other firms initially helped create a market
for their puts with negative analyses on the prospects for
Japanese share prices. On Jan. 18 -- when the Nikkei stood at
36,729.46 -- Salomon told clients that it expected the index
"to fall below 35,000 and perhaps test the 32,000 level."
   Again on March 8, Salomon predicted that the Nikkei would
tumble to 27,000 to 30,000 before a "near-term bottoming out"
occurred. On that day, the Nikkei closed at 33,690.89. The
all-time high was 38,915.87 set on Dec. 29, 1989.
   Now, however, Salomon says some of its customers feel the
time may be right for a recovery. On March 22, the firm told
clients the Nikkei could bottom "close to 27,000." The Nikkei
closed Wednesday at 28,442.94, down 316.78.
   "When we first came out with the puts, there was plenty of
demand for puts because a lot of people thought the Tokyo
market was overvalued," said a Salomon analyst. "Now that
Japan is way down -- it is almost 10,000 points below three
months ago -- investors figure the market can bounce back."
   They are getting lots of new warrants to test this theory.
On Tuesday, Salomon's Swiss subsidiary issued 1.5 million
16-month call warrants on the Nikkei. These are traded over
the counter.
   And Societe Generale, one of France's biggest banks,
announced yesterday that its Dutch subsidiary would issue one
million call warrants on the Nikkei. The 20-month instruments
will begin trading on the Paris, London, Luxembourg and
Zurich stock exchanges on May 14.
   "With the Nikkei index having fallen so much this year,
this instrument would be a good vehicle for playing a sharp
recovery in the Japanese stock market," said Gilles
Bazy-Sire, a first vice president at Societe Generale
Securities Corp. in New York. He added that they would also
be "a good hedging instrument for people who already own
puts, have made some money on them but don't yet want to sell
them."
   Salomon's new Nikkei warrants in the U.S. can be exercised
at the Nikkei's close yesterday, 28,442.94. If the index
rises above that level, the instruments can be exercised --
in lots of 500 or more -- by selling them back to Salomon at
any time prior to their expiration on April 6, 1993.
Alternatively, they can also be sold on the Amex.
   In return for exercising the warrants, an investor
receives the dollar-equivalent of one-fifteenth of the amount
that the Nikkei index at the time exceeds the exercise, or
"strike," price, which is calculated in yen. The exchange
rate is set at 158.80 yen to the dollar.
   By having a fixed exchange rate, the investor is protected
against the yen weakening further. On the other hand, the
investor is also giving up an opportunity for a currency gain
if the yen were to rise against the dollar, thus making the
index worth more. So far this year, the dollar has risen
10.5% against the yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Federal Savings
   To Buy Five Branches
   Of CrossLand Savings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CRL FFUT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- CrossLand Savings agreed to sell its five Utah
retail branches, accounting for a total $75 million of
deposits, to First Federal Savings Bank, Salt Lake City, for
cash.
   Terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CrossLand's retail banking operation has 115 offices in
eight states with a total $8.7 billion of deposits. The
Brooklyn thrift said the sale of the Utah deposits was a move
to focus on areas where it has a larger market share. It will
maintain its CrossLand Mortgage Corp. subsidiary in Salt Lake
City.
   Conditions of the branch sale include the signing of a
definitive agreement and receipt of clearance by regulators,
and regulators may scrutinize CrossLand's proposed
divestiture. As is the case with many thrifts, CrossLand is
out of compliance with certain capital standards, and
regulators often are wary when such thrifts sell assets.
   A spokesman for CrossLand said he believed the branches
are profitable, but "the growth potential for us hasn't been
tremendous in that market." The thrift anticipates no
regulatory objections to the sale, he added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Autos:
   Ford Settles
   Big Lap-Belt
   Injury Suit
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- In a huge settlement likely to add impetus to
the debate over the safety of lap-only rear seat belts, Ford
Motor Co. agreed to pay $6 million to settle a
personal-injury lawsuit.
   The issue of lap-only belts has been emerging for several
years as a major product-liability problem for auto makers,
and other companies have paid multimillion-dollar settlements
in several instances. But yesterday's settlement between Ford
and a California family appears to be one of the largest
payments in such a case.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The suit charged the company with negligence for putting
lap-only belts -- instead of "three-point" lap-and-shoulder
belts -- in the rear seats of Ford's Escort model cars built
before this year. The suit claimed that Ford knew that the
belts wouldn't adequately protect rear passengers, but didn't
want to spend the extra money to install three-point belts.
Ford contends that expense wasn't an issue, but that the
benefit of three-point belts for rear passengers wasn't clear
at the time.
   Some 140 million cars were sold in the U.S. with lap-only
rear belts before December 1989, when the government made
three-point belts mandatory in rear seats and encouraged auto
makers to retrofit earlier models. Auto makers have been hit
with many suits charging that deaths or injuries could have
been prevented by the three-point belts, which include a
shoulder harness in addition to a lap belt.
   "There is a flood" of similar cases, said Benjamin Kelley
of the Institute for Injury Reduction, a Maryland-based
organization founded by trial attorneys to gather and
distribute information about product-safety cases. The rear
lap belt issue will be "one of the biggest sources of
automotive litigation in history," Mr. Kelley contends.
   A Ford attorney acknowledged that such suits are a growing
problem for the auto industry. "This isn't just a Ford
issue," said Richard Molloy, a Ford associate general
counsel. "This is a seat-belt issue that affects all
manufacturers." Ford has settled about a dozen similar cases
involving the Escort model, Mr. Molloy said, and has another
four pending.
   The California settlement stems from a San Diego County
accident in November 1988 in which 11-year-old James Miller
was killed and his twin brother, Richard, was left a
paraplegic. Both boys were passengers in a Ford Escort and
wore the standard lap-only rear belts. Their parents sat in
the front seats, wearing lap-and-shoulder belts.
   "The front end of the Escort was virtually demolished, yet
the shoulder-harnessed parents escaped with relatively minor
injuries," the Miller family said in a prepared statement
yesterday. "The rear half of the vehicle was left completely
intact, yet one child died and the other was paralyzed."
   Ford, in a statement, expressed its sympathy with the
Miller family, but contended it wasn't at fault. "There was
nothing about the Escort that caused the accident," the
company said, "or contributed to or enhanced the injuries of
the occupants. The settlement will make reasonable provision
for the needs of the family, and spare the parties the
substantial costs and uncertainties of litigation."
   Mr. Molloy said Ford agreed to the settlement because of
"the possibility that the very human elements of this
tragedy" might cause a jury to issue a verdict against Ford.
   The suits against car makers on rear lap belts involve two
different issues. One is the allegation that auto makers have
known for some time that three-point belts offered better
protection than lap belts. The other charge is that in some
cases, wearing the lap belt was worse than wearing no belt at
all, because lap-only belts could cause abdominal injuries.
   General Motors Corp. recently settled a Philadelphia case
for an undisclosed amount of money in which John McKenna, 26,
was killed while wearing a lap belt in the rear seat of a
Pontiac Trans Am, according to Larry E. Coben, an attorney
representing the family. Mr. McKenna's wife, who was sitting
next to him in the back of the car without her belt on,
received no injuries.
   "If he (McKenna) had no belt on, he would have walked
away," according to Mr. Coben.
   It isn't clear how many lap-belt cases are pending, but
estimates by trial lawyers range as high as 500. Mr. Kelley
predicts that the number of such lawsuits could climb to
1,200 a year.
   In many cases, the amounts of the settlements in the
seat-belt cases aren't disclosed, at the insistence of the
auto makers. Nevertheless, in recent years, some top-dollar
settlements have been made public.
   General Motors in September 1986 paid $5 million to settle
a rear lap-belt lawsuit, though the company said it didn't
believe the car had any defect. Honda Motor Co. agreed a few
years ago to settle another case for $2 million.
   In December 1987, in one of cases that went to trial, a
federal jury in Baltimore awarded $3.3 million to the family
of James Garrett, then 13, who was partially paralyzed while
riding in a Ford Escort that collided with a dump truck.
Besides citing the lack of a rear shoulder harness in the
Escort in which the Garrett boy was riding, the jury found
that the design of the Escort's lap belt was defective.
   Ford could have avoided the whole problem by adding rear
shoulder harnesses to the Escort for a mere $12 a belt,
according to Craig McClellan, the attorney for the Miller
family. A Ford spokesman said that while that amount would
have covered the cost of the belt alone, other costs were
involved.
   The company said it would have cost $20 to $25 in
materials for each belt and the hardware necessary to install
it on the assembly line. In addition, Ford also spent
approximately $12 million last year on engineering and
retooling changes to install the shoulder-harness belts on
four models, the Ford spokesman said.
   Also last year, Ford made available to dealers three-point
belt kits to retrofit the rear seats of Escorts. Ford
suggests that dealers charge $50 a belt plus one to two hours
of labor, bringing the total cost of each retrofit belt to
perhaps $100.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- BFS Bankorp Inc.:
   Plan Backed for Investors
   To Raise Stake From 9.9%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS GLP BRT BFSI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BFS Bankorp Inc. backed a plan under which Fredric H.
Gould, Gould Investors L.P. and BRT Realty Trust would seek
clearance to boost their stake in the thrift to as much as
24.9% from 9.9%.
   BFS also agreed to expand its board to six members from
five, to add Mr. Gould, who is chairman of BRT and a general
partner of Gould Investors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also, James A. Randall, president and chief executive
officer of BFS, said the holding company for Bankers Federal
Savings expects to settle its litigation with First Capital
Group Inc. shortly.
   First Capital had proposed to pay $16 a share, or $23
million, for BFS, which rejected the bid as inadequate. The
Redondo Beach, Calif., investment firm waged a proxy fight,
and one of its executives was named to BFS's board. BFS filed
suit to block First Capital from making any offer and to void
any proxies that First Capital solicited.
   A spokesman for First Capital was unavailable for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Car Makers Try
   Offbeat Lures
   In Iffy Market
   ----
   By Melinda Grenier Guiles
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   C F GM NSANY J.MZD TOYOY SBRU VOLVY G.BMW HMC J.MOT G.VOW
J.IZM C.HYU G.MAH J.SUZ S.SAA G.AUD J.DHM G.POR F.PEU I.ALR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MARKETING, ADVERTISING (MKT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Buy a car, get a Caribbean cruise -- or a
cellular phone or a free dinner or a weekend at the beach.
   Such are the lures auto makers and dealers are dangling
before reluctant consumers as the traditional spring selling
season gets off to a bumpy start.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. sales of domestic vehicles in late March rose 2.9%
from a year ago, helping pull sales of all imported and
domestic cars and trucks for the month to 2.9% below March
1989. That was some improvement from the industry's February
results, when sales of all vehicles fell 4.7% below a year
ago and domestic auto makers recorded their worst February
for car sales in seven years.
   The recent uptick in deliveries, caused partly by the
unusual incentives -- and some hefty cash rebates -- has
sparked optimism among auto makers. Chrysler Corp. now is
predicting total auto industry sales will come in around 14.5
million vehicles, about even with 1989 and higher than
Chrysler's earlier estimate of 14.2 million.
   Still, an uncertain economy and the prospect of higher
interest rates does worry auto makers, many of whom are
adopting unusual marketing programs to ensure that they will
enjoy at least a spring selling boomlet. Cadillac is kicking
off a new campaign today that includes rebates of up to
$2,000, special lease rates and an offer in which consumers
who test drive any Cadillac next week get a free weekend
rental of a Cadillac through Avis.
   The deal "helps us get prospects into our cars for an
extended period of time," says Peter Levin, director of
advertising for the General Motors Corp. division. In turn,
Avis gets some "high demographic people who use rental cars a
lot and travel a lot."
   Some of the incentives might sound counterproductive.
Nissan Motor Co. has been heavily advertising the "Stanza
Challenge," a Feb. 12 to April 30 program that gives $100 to
customers who test-drive the restyled Stanza compact car, but
still choose to buy a Toyota Camry or Honda Accord within
seven days.
   So far Nissan has handed out more than 190 checks, says a
company spokesman, but Stanza sales last month also jumped
almost 86% to 6,689 cars, compared with February's 3,603
total. "We've said all along once we get people into the car,
we can get them to buy it," the spokesman said.
   Dealers have been getting into the act, too. In addition
to $1,000 rebates from Mazda Motor Corp., Courtesy Mazda in
Memphis, Tenn., offered some March buyers of 626 and B2200
trucks four days and three nights at an Orlando, Fla., hotel.
In addition to the room, customers got a "welcome split of
champagne" and "complimentary greens fees daily," the
dealership's newspaper ads said.
   Rick Lepowsky, new car manager at Camelback Toyota in
Phoenix, Arizona, said the no-charge mobile phones his
dealership is giving away have helped close some sales. And
Wallace Ford-Subaru in Delray Beach, Fla., had "a decent
month of March in an extremely tough environment," partly by
offering cruises to the Bahamas for customers taking delivery
of a new or used vehicle last month, says President Bill
Wallace. He said the cruises were part of "the most
aggressive promotional activity we've ever done."
   Still, the biggest lure seems to be cash. Ford Motor Co.
is offering $500 on several of its models to anyone who
hasn't bought a new vehicle before. It is also offering
low-interest finance rates and rebates. The Escort
subcompact, which Ford is replacing later this month with a
new Mazda-designed version, gets some of the most generous
incentives.
   GM's Oldsmobile division recently doubled the rebate on
its Cutlass Supreme to $2,000, if dealers contribute $500.
Chrysler also is offering $2,000 on certain Dodge Dakota
pickups. And special, low lease-rates are blossoming like
tulips on luxury-car lots. Volvo AB's U.S. sales arm is
advertising 60-month leases with $256.04 monthly payments on
its 740 GL cars, if lessees are willing to ante up $3,000.
Ford turns the tables, giving lessees of some Lincolns up to
$900 cash, which the consumer can give back to the dealer to
reduce monthly payments on a two-year lease.
   Bayerische Motoren Werke AG has a two-year lease rate on
its 3-series cars that cuts monthly payments on the 325i
two-door and four-door models to $399, 17.5% below the level
of just a month ago. "The competition in {the luxury car}
segment is real tough and most of the competitors are using
lots of incentives," says a BMW spokesman.
   And how have all these programs affected sales? Sales of
all Mazda cars, spurred by factory rebates and dealer
programs, rose 26.9% last month to 30,258 cars after falling
4.3% in February. BMW sales fell 10.2% to 5,416 cars, but
that was still better than February's 28.3% drop.
   Toyota Motor Corp. turned in an especially strong month,
with car sales up 43.9% to 79,320 Toyota and Lexus cars. That
was enough to give the Japanese auto maker a 9.2% share of
U.S. car sales in March, beating Chrysler, which recorded an
8.2% share. Honda Motor Co. also edged Chrysler, with an 8.3%
car share.
   Chrysler handily beat both in total market share, however,
with an 11.3% share of all cars and trucks compared with 7.5%
for Toyota and 5.6% for Honda, which doesn't sell trucks in
the U.S.
   Strong sales from GM's Chevrolet Division, particularly
among its Geo models, helped boost GM's U.S. car market share
to 35.1% for the month from 34.9% a year ago. Ford's car
share, meanwhile, fell to 21.1% from 22.6%.
   Ford said it expects to rebound when it introduces later
this month the new Escort and the Explorer, which replaces
the Bronco II sport utility vehicle. "By year end, we are
confident that our share of both the car and truck market
will be above the 1989" levels of 22.3% for cars and 28.8%
for trucks, said Vice President Robert L. Rewey.
   During the last 10 selling days of March, U.S. car sales
came in at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 7.2 million
units, the best 10-day rate since early February. Poor sales
earlier in the month, however, dragged the rate for all of
March down to 6.6 million, the lowest since December's 6.5
million rate.
   ---
                   AUTO SALES STATISTICS
                                                                                                       

            Percentage of Total U.S. Car Market
                                                                                                       

                              Mar     Mar   3 mos   3 mos
   Make                       1990    1989  1990    1989
                                                                                                       

   General Motors-a ......... 35.1    34.9  35.4    35.3
   Ford-a ................... 21.1    22.6  21.5    23.2
   Chrysler-a ...............  8.2    10.7   9.0    10.5
   Toyota-a .................  9.2     6.2   8.7     6.1
   Honda-a ..................  8.3     7.1   8.1     7.0
   Nissan-a .................  5.1     5.6   4.8     5.3
   Mazda-a ..................  3.5     2.7   3.0     2.6
   Hyundai ..................  1.4     2.3   1.5     2.1
   Mitsubishi-a .............  1.7     1.1   2.1     1.0
   Subaru-a .................  1.3     1.6   1.1     1.6
   Other Imports ............  5.0     5.0   4.9     5.2
   Total Domestic ........... 72.5    72.3  72.8    72.4
   Total Imported ........... 27.5    27.7  27.2    27.6
                                                                                                       

   a-Includes imported and domestically made models.
   ---
                      INTERIM AUTO SALES
                                                                                                       

            RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a
                                                                                                       

                                1990       1989       x-%
                             Mar 21-31   Mar 21-31    Chg.
                                                                                                       

   GM total vehicles ......    197,198     183,589 +  7.4
     Domestic car .........    126,354     121,590 +  3.9
     Imported car .........      7,190       4,298 + 67.3

     Domestic truck .......     63,607      57,368 + 10.9
     Imported truck .......         47         333 - 85.9
       Total truck ........     63,654      57,701 + 10.3
                                                                                                       

   FORD total vehicles ....    129,704     135,298 -  4.1
     Domestic car .........     74,260      80,774 -  8.1
     Imported car .........      2,412       3,004 - 19.7
       Total car ..........     76,672      83,778 -  8.5
     Domestic truck .......     53,032      51,520 +  2.9
                                                                                                       

   CHRYSLER total veh .....     61,983      77,070 - 19.6
     Domestic car .........     27,048      35,444 - 23.7
     Imported car .........      2,409       5,073 - 52.5
       Total car ..........     29,457      40,517 - 27.3
     Domestic truck .......     31,925      35,232 -  9.4
     Imported truck .......        601       1,321 - 54.5
       Total truck ........     32,526      36,553 - 11.0
                                                                                                       

   HONDA domestic car .....     20,792      15,993 + 30.0
                                                                                                       

   TOYOTA domestic car ....     16,847       9,201 + 83.1
                                                                                                       

   NISSAN total vehicles ..     13,222      13,654 -  3.2
     Domestic car .........      4,902       5,789 - 15.3
     Domestic truck .......      8,320       7,865 +  5.8
                                                                                                       

   MAZDA domestic car .....      7,271       2,891 +151.5
                                                                                                       

   MITSUBISHI-c ...........      2,329         838 +177.9
                                                                                                       

   SUBARU domestic car ....        193           0 +100.0
                                                                                                       

   ISUZU domestic truck ...          0           0 +100.0
                                                                                                       

   Total cars .............    292,007     284,895 +  2.5
     Domestic .............    279,996     272,520 +  2.7
     Imported .............     12,011      12,375 -  2.9
   Total trucks ...........    157,532     153,639 +  2.5
     Domestic .............    156,884     151,985 +  3.2
     Imported .............        648       1,654 - 60.8
                                                                                                       

   Total domestic veh .....    436,880     424,505 +  2.9
                                                                                                       

   Total vehicles .........    449,539     438,534 +  2.5
                                                                                                       

   a-Totals include only vehicle sales reported in the
period.
   c-Domestic car
   x-There were 10 selling days in the most recent period and
10 a year earlier. Percentage differences based on daily
sales rate rather than sales volume.
   ---
              TOTAL MONTH AUTO SALES FOR MARCH
                                                                                                       

           RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a
                                                                                                       


                   Mar.   Mar.   Month   To Date  To Date
                                                                                                       

   GM            453,689  459,697 -  1.3 1,233,035 1,215,692
     Domestc car 285,769  296,527 -  3.6   781,243   795,056
     Import car   16,604   12,270 + 35.3    47,256    34,930
       Total car 302,373  308,797 -  2.1   828,499   829,986
     Domestc trk 151,204  150,104 +  0.7   404,083   383,525
     Import trk      112      796 - 85.9       453     2,181
       Total trk 151,316  150,900 +  0.3   404,536   385,706
                                                                                                       

   Ford          308,706  328,735 -  6.1   844,417   892,733
     Domestc car 175,697  192,365 -  8.7   484,896   524,162
     Import car    6,034    7,540 - 20.0    18,155    21,906
       Total car 181,731  199,905 -  9.1   503,051   546,068
     Domestc trk 126,975  128,830 -  1.4   341,366   346,665
                                                                                                       

   Chrysler      144,514  182,600 - 20.9   450,499   486,605
     Domestc car  65,364   83,504 - 21.7   194,879   219,301
     Import car    5,485   11,277 - 51.4    16,404    28,652
       Total car  70,849   94,781 - 25.2   211,283   247,953
     Domestc trk  72,157   84,695 - 14.8   234,665   229,589
     Import trk    1,508    3,124 - 51.7     4,551     9,063
       Total trk  73,665   87,819 - 16.1   239,216   238,652
                                                                                                       

   Toyota         95,905   74,295 + 29.1   246,661   192,737
     Domestc car  32,224   16,078 +100.4    81,413    38,243
     Import car   47,096   39,041 + 20.6   122,352   104,838
       Total car  79,320   55,119 + 43.9   203,765   143,081
     Import trk   16,585   19,176 - 13.5    42,896    49,656
                                                                                                       

   Honda          71,086   62,411 + 13.9   190,335   163,512
     Domestc car  39,519   33,810 + 16.9   104,868    83,834
     Import car   31,567   28,601 + 10.4    85,467    79,678
                                                                                                       

   Nissan         63,757   66,177 -  3.7   152,931   171,538
     Domestc car   9,381   10,374 -  9.6    22,221    27,089
     Import car   34,966   38,906 - 10.1    90,069    98,375
       Total car  44,347   49,280 - 10.0   112,290   125,464
     Domestc trk  15,514   14,858 +  4.4    32,866    37,833
     Import trk    3,896    2,039 + 91.1     7,775     8,241
       Total trk  19,410   16,897 + 14.9    40,641    46,074
                                                                                                       

   Mazda          36,667   32,264 + 13.6    86,221    82,941
     Domestc car  11,195    5,142 +117.7    19,924    10,677
     Import car   19,063   18,711 +  1.9    49,165    50,760
       Total car  30,258   23,853 + 26.9    69,089    61,437
     Import trk    6,409    8,411 - 23.8    17,132    21,504
                                                                                                       

   Hyundai-b      11,979   20,461 - 41.5    34,411    49,691
                                                                                                       

   Mitsubishi     17,229   12,904 + 33.5    57,449    30,290
     Domestc car   4,719    1,831 +157.7    13,192     3,878
     Import car    9,755    8,026 + 21.5    35,828    18,862
       Total car  14,474    9,857 + 46.8    49,020    22,740
     Import trk    2,755    3,047 -  9.6     8,429     7,550
                                                                                                       


     Domestc car     293        0    ...       409         0
     Import car   11,012   14,321 - 23.1    24,166    37,768
                                                                                                       

   Volkswagen     13,646   12,807 +  6.6    30,555    30,634
     Import car   12,987   12,423 +  4.5    29,054    29,657
     Import trk      659      384 + 71.6     1,501       977
                                                                                                       

   Isuzu          12,523   10,062 + 24.5    28,208    26,361
     Import car      402    1,749 - 77.0       836     4,549
     Domestic trk    517        0    ...     1,118         0
     Import trk   11,604    8,313 + 39.6    26,254    21,812
       Total trk  12,121    8,313 + 45.8    27,372    21,812
                                                                                                       

   Volvo-b         7,127    8,718 - 18.2    22,225    25,321
                                                                                                       

   Mercedes-b      6,850    6,528 +  4.9    17,129    17,022
                                                                                                       

   BMW-b           5,416    6,034 - 10.2    14,392    17,392
                                                                                                       

   Suzuki          2,075    3,604 - 42.4     5,849     9,092
     Import car      475      480 -  1.0     1,605     1,586
     Import trk    1,600    3,124 - 48.8     4,244     7,506
                                                                                                       

   Saab-b          2,267    2,619 - 13.4     6,306     7,879
                                                                                                       

   Audi-b          2,251    1,357 + 65.9     4,941     4,617
                                                                                                       

   Jaguar-b        1,746    1,630 +  7.1     4,744     4,483
                                                                                                       

   Daihatsu-b      1,703    1,217 + 39.9     4,673     3,340
     Import car    1,219    1,217 +  0.2     3,648     3,340
     Import trk      484        0    ...     1,025         0
                                                                                                       

   Yugo-b            571      827 - 31.0     1,994     2,458
                                                                                                       

   Porsche-b         941      667 + 41.1     2,362     1,808
                                                                                                       

   Sterling-b        405      384 +  5.5     1,403     1,784
                                                                                                       

   Peugeot-b         477      555 - 14.1     1,121     1,401
                                                                                                       

   Range Rover-c     360      355 +  1.4     1,095     1,191
                                                                                                       

   Alfa Romeo-b      266      581 - 54.2       576     1,036
                                                                                                       

   Total cars    861,122  884,554 -  2.6 2,338,654 2,352,033
     Domestic    624,161  639,631 -  2.4 1,703,045 1,702,240
     Import      236,961  244,923 -  3.3   635,609   649,793
   Total trucks  412,339  427,256 -  3.5 1,129,453 1,127,293
     Domestic    366,367  378,487 -  3.2 1,014,098   997,612
     Import       45,972   48,769 -  5.7   115,355   129,681
                                                                                                       

   Total veh  1,273,461 1,311,810 -  2.9 3,468,107 3,479,326
                                                                                                       

   a-Totals include all vehicle sales reported in the period
except tourist-delivery sales of imported models.

   c-Imported trucks only.
   e-Estimated.
   Note: There were 27 selling days in the most recent month
and 27 a year earlier. Percentage differences based on daily
sales rate rather than sales volume.
   ---
                Some Lures for Spring Car Buyers
                                                                                                       

   -- Nissan: $100 to customers who buy a Toyota Camry or
Honda Accord after test driving a Nissan Stanza.
                                                                                                       

   -- Ford: 2.9% financing, or a $1,000 rebate, or $750
rebate and 6.9% financing -- plus $500 for first-time car
buyers -- on Escort subcompacts.
                                                                                                       

   -- Saab: Dealer incentives of as much as $5,000 on some
9000 and 900 models.
                                                                                                       

   -- Cadillac: "Complimentary weekend rental" of a Cadillac
through Avis to customers who test/drive any Cadillac between
April 7 and 15.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- PSI Holdings Inc.:
   Rate Reduction Is Ordered
   For Public Service Indiana
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PIN
</CO>
<IN>
UTILITIES (UTI)
</IN>
<LP>
   Indiana utility regulators rejected a proposed three-year
rate freeze for Public Service Indiana and instead ordered a
4.25% rate reduction.
   The Plainfield, Ind., company said that as a result, it
faces higher potential costs associated with anticipated
clean-air legislation. Nonetheless, the unit of PSI Hold ings
Inc. said it doesn't plan to appeal yesterday's Indiana
Utility Regulatory Commission ruling, which allows it a
15.76% return on equity, which as of last Dec. 31 totaled
$560.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The rate reduction will cost the utility about $37.3
million in revenue a year, the company said. A spokesman said
Public Service Indiana hadn't yet determined when the rate
decrease would go into effect.
   PSI Holdings shares rose 75 cents to close at $17.25 a
share yesterday, in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada to Hold Bond Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government announced plans to
auction 900 million Canadian dollars (US$770.85 million) of
11.75% bonds due Oct. 15, 1993, on April 10.
   Proceeds of the issue will be applied toward the
redemption of C$2.13 billion of government bonds maturing May
1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<LP>
   Ambrose Evans-Pritchard, a contributor to the Spectator,
writing in the April 1 issue of National Review:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nicaraguan people have extinguished the romantic dream
in the most subversive way possible, by ballot. They voted
against all this romance, and poetry, and patriotism, and
revolutionary machismo. They want to be dull, like Costa
Ricans. Dull and fat in the American back yard.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consumer Savings Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>

   Super-NOW Accounts-a           5.00%
   Six-month Certificates-a       7.68%
   One-year Certificates-a        7.79%
   Thirty-month Accounts-a        7.80%
   Five-Year Certificates-a       7.84%
   U.S. Savings Bonds-b           6.98%
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   a-Average rate paid yesterday by 100 large banks and
thrifts in the 10 largest metropolitan areas as compiled by
Bank Rate Monitor.
   b-Current annual yield. Guaranteed minimum 6%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- American Savings Bank:
   Report of 1st-Quarter Loss
   Expected; Charge Is Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ASB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   American Savings Bank said it expects to report a
first-quarter loss following a $4 million charge resulting
from nonperforming real estate loans.
   American Savings, White Plains, N.Y., didn't estimate the
extent of the loss. In the 1989 first quarter, it earned $6.5
million, or 88 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The thrift said it continues to evaluate "the upward
trend" in the bank's level of nonperforming assets and the
adverse conditions in the real estate market, and will
determine an appropriate provision for loan losses
accordingly.
   American Savings also announced the resignation of its
executive vice president in charge of real estate lending, H.
L. Van Varick, 50 years old. The thrift said a successor
hadn't been appointed.
   American Savings common stock tumbled 50 cents yesterday
to close at $4.125 a share, in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Giving a Hand:
   To Irving Kahn, Investing Means
   A High School Student's Future
   ----
   By John D. Williams
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<LP>
   {Not all problems addressed by people in business are
problems of the marketplace. With little fanfare and often
with no motive of personal benefit, men and women in
companies big and small reach out every day to help others in
need. For some, it's a religious or moral commitment; for
others, a utilitarian creed that says helping the community
is good for business.
   The problems thus tackled are immense: poverty, drugs,
illiteracy, incurable disease, and others. The solutions
offered, by comparison, seem small. But what sets these
private-sector samaritans apart is that they persevere. Some
find frustration and even failure. But others succeed and, by
effective and sometimes innovative individual actions, point
the way for others to help as well.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   From time to time in this column, The Wall Street Journal
will report on efforts by American business people to serve
more than the bottom line.
   -- Peter R. Kann, Publisher}
                                                                                                       

   THE BRONX HIGH SCHOOL Irving Kahn remembers was a place
where teachers taught, students learned and seniors graduated
with a fair idea of what their future held.
   Today, Mr. Kahn, a member of the DeWitt Clinton High
School Class of 1923, has few illusions about public-school
life in New York, where 30% of high school students drop out
before graduation. These young people need help, and the
stocky, energetic 85-year-old Mr. Kahn, now winding down a
career as chairman of a family-owned investment firm, figures
he's the one to provide it.
   Since 1986, he has presided over the New York City Job and
Career Center, a non-profit concern he created that is aimed
at showing high school students how to prepare for, and find,
a job. A second counseling center opened last fall in
Brooklyn, and Mr. Kahn is pressing to open two more.
   Behind his efforts is a personal belief that an
ill-prepared and unmotivated work force will drive more
employers from New York City, thus diminishing prospects for
financial-services firms like his. But Mr. Kahn is also
struck by how little personal contact exists between today's
high school students and their embattled teachers.
   "When I was a student at DeWitt Clinton, there were
teachers I could talk to about my future," recalls Mr. Kahn.
"Now there are too many students -- including a large number
of minorities with language or environmental disadvantages --
for the present teachers to counsel."
   Mr. Kahn devotes about a quarter of his workweek to the
job-counseling project and pays the salaries of the Manhattan
center's executive director and two assistants from his own
pocket. The other five staffers there are paid by the state,
which provides the quarters. Corporate donations and
foundation grants supplement the budget.
   Every weekday morning during the school year, small groups
of city high school students are escorted into the center's
offices for intensive drill in the basics of finding a job.
When applying for work, they're told, make eye contact with
the interviewer, sit up straight, leave the flashy jewelry at
home, don't mumble. A mock interview before a TV camera
follows, with each would-be applicant critiqued by peers
watching on a monitor.
   With the help of questions on a computer screen, students
also get guidance on what kind of work they should seek. The
first responses aren't always encouraging. "Actor" is the
most popular choice of 450 listed careers, center staff
members say, because many youngsters see the stage or screen
as a fast ticket out of the ghetto.
   The success of Mr. Kahn's centers is hard to gauge: No
measure of the number of permanent jobs landed by the
attendees has been taken, although officials say that of the
11,600 who visited last year, 1,587 applied for part-time,
after-school work as clerks, messengers and other entry-level
positions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MMR Holding Corp.
   Says Aetna Casualty
   To Back Bonded Pacts
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MMRHQ AET WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BATON ROUGE, La. -- MMR Holding Corp. said Aetna Casualty
&amp; Surety Co. has agreed to assume the liabilities for MMR's
bonded contracts.
   The agreement appears to increase the amount of support
Aetna previously had said it would provide to MMR, a
mechanical and electrical contractor currently operating
under bankruptcy court protection from creditors. MMR said
Aetna also agreed to loan it $2.5 million, half of which
would bear a super priority lien for Aetna, which would give
Aetna priority over other MMR debts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement, which is not yet final, MMR will
retain a 50% interest in the net future proceeds of its
substantially completed bonded jobs. MMR, its current
officers and directors and most of its subsidiaries would be
released from Aetna liabilities other than post
bankruptcy-petition loans Aetna made to MMR.
   Aetna also will fund MMR's bonded payroll for the week and
pay MMR proceeds ultimately derived on the completion of all
bonded contracts not now substantially complete.
   In a related move, MMR said its board elected William J.
Conway as chairman, president and chief executive officer.
The company said Mr. Conway, former president and chief
operating officer of Houston-based Raymond International Co.,
will assess the company's options and report his
recommendations to the board.
   Mr. Conway's election comes after a period of instability
in MMR's management and director ranks. The company's
chairman and chief executive and its chief financial officer
both resigned last month, apparently over policy differences
with directors. Days later, the president and newly named
chief executive resigned for "personal reasons." Then the
company said the former chairman, James B. Rutland, also
resigned as a director.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks Fall After Selling Spurred
   By Rumors on Japanese Institution
   ----
   By Craig Torres and David Wilson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stocks never recovered from a brief period of
panic selling yesterday afternoon as rumors spread that a
major Japanese financial institution might be in trouble.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 17.34 to 2719.37.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange rose to 159,540,000
shares compared with 154,310,000 on Tuesday, with much of the
increase in two large blocks of Woolworth and Avon Products.
Declining issues on the Big Board outpaced advancers 918 to
596.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stocks tumbled from near unchanged levels in afternoon
trading as talk that a Japanese institution was having
financial problems spread through the market. Stock-index
arbitrage sell programs also kicked in, helping push the Dow
industrials to a loss of more than 20 points.
   Credit concerns were a preoccupation for the U.S. stock
market. Investors fled from savings and loan, bank and other
financial shares.
   A trader at a major Japanese brokerage house said the
rumors about securities firms in the Far East were unfounded.
Still, many traders expected to find the Tokyo stock market
sharply lower this morning. In Chicago, the June S&amp;P futures
contract closed below what traders call "fair value," setting
up the possibility for sell programs on the opening this
morning, one analyst said. In stock-index arbitrage, traders
buy and sell stocks and offset the position in futures to
lock in profits.
   "You can't help wondering at what point Tokyo is going to
affect us," said James Awad, president of BMI Capital, a
money management concern. With expectations of bad
first-quarter earnings reports, and the market's rise on low
volume and narrow breadth for the past few weeks, "it's easy
to see how the New York market could go down in sympathy with
Japan," Mr. Awad said.
   Skittishness about the outlook for Tokyo stock prices made
for sharp gains and active trading in the four issues of put
warrants on the Nikkei Index traded on the American Stock
Exchange. The warrants allow their holders to profit from a
fall in Japanese stocks.
   Salomon's put warrants expiring in January 1993 were the
most briskly traded, with more than 1.9 million changing
hands. The warrants jumped 2 to 12 3/8, an increase of 19.3%.
   Each of the other three put-warrant issues rose at least
15%: Salomon's February 1993 warrants gained 1 7/8 to 13 on
volume of 1.2 million; Denmark's warrants advanced 2 1/8 to
13 3/8 on volume of 1.5 million; and Bankers Trust's warrants
surged 3 3/4 to 28 3/4 with about 773,000 trading.
   But a new issue of Nikkei call warrants, which permit
holders to benefit from a rise in Tokyo stock prices, topped
the list of most actively traded Amex issues. Salomon sold
6.5 million of the warrants at $2.99 each; they closed at 3
1/8, down 1/4 from their opening trade, on volume of 2.9
million.
   TCBY Enterprises fell 1 5/8 to 19 7/8. McDonald's plan to
start selling low-fat frozen yogurt pressured the stock.
"People are nervous that the competition is increasing," said
Caroline Levy, analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. But she
added that McDonald's could introduce more consumers to
frozen yogurt. "I don't think TCBY will lose customers to
McDonald's," she said. "McDonald's will create customers for
TCBY."
   Woolworth was second on the Big Board's list of most
active issues because of the large block totaling three
million common shares, or about 4.7% of its shares
outstanding, which changed hands at 61 3/4. The stock skidded
2 to 61 1/2 on 3.4 million shares. Investor Meshulam Riklis
was rumored to be the seller; he couldn't be reached for
comment.
   Another three million-share block trade proved favorable
for Avon, which was most active and rose 1 1/4 to 35 1/4 on
3.5 million shares. The block, amounting to a 5.3% stake, was
traded at an above-market price of 36.
   Baxter International slid 1/4 to 24 3/8 as 2.2 million
shares changed hands. The company disclosed plans for a
restructuring, including a reduction of about 10% in its work
force, and said it will consider spinning off a minority
stake in its diagnostic products business.
   Delta Air Lines dropped 1 1/2 to 72 3/8 after telling
analysts it expects earnings for the quarter ended in March
to be much lower than a year ago. The company didn't give a
specific estimate.
   Other airline stocks also lost ground; AMR, the parent of
American Airlines, declined 1 1/4 to 64 and USAir Group eased
3/8 to 29 5/8. But UAL, parent of United Airlines, which is
the target of a buy-out offer from a group of unions, gained
1 3/4 to 166 1/2.
   Toys "R" Us rose 3/8 to 41 3/4 and traded as high as 42
7/8. Smith Barney, Harris Upham repeated a buy recommendation
on the stock and said it expects the retailer to report a 10%
sales increase in the first quarter for stores open at least
a year.
   Stanley Works skidded 2 1/8 to 34 1/2 following its
estimate that first-quarter net income was 5% to 10% lower
than a year ago, when it posted net of 57 cents a share.
   MNC Financial fell 1 to 17. Merrill Lynch lowered its
short-term investment rating on the stock to "hold" from
"strong buy," based on uncertainty about the quality of the
company's assets and other factors.
   Koger Properties rose 5/8 to 19 1/2. The company said it
plans to buy back as many as one million common shares, or
about 3.7% of its shares outstanding.
   Amre dipped 3/8 to 7 7/8. The company said a management
group that collectively owns about 56% of its common shares
plans to make an offer of $8.75 a share for the rest.
   The Amex Market Value Index fell 0.53 to 361.12. Volume on
the exchange totaled 20,569,600 shares, with 219 issues
advancing and 313 declining.
   Texas Air fell 3/8 to 7. A committee of unsecured
creditors of the company's Eastern Airlines unit, which is in
Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, rejected Eastern's offer
to settle their debts and voted to seek a trustee to run the
airline.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chevron Buys Rest
   Of French Concern
   From Rhone-Poulenc
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RP.C CHV
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Chevron Corp. said its Chevron Chemical
Co. unit acquired the 50% it didn't own in Orogil S.A., a
French-based maker of fuel and lubricating additives, from
Rhone-Poulenc S.A. for an undisclosed amount.
   Chevron acquired its original stake in Orogil and an
option for the remaining 50% in 1987. It took over management
at that time. Orogil operates a plant at Gonfreville, France.
Since the 1987 investment, marketing of Orogil's output has
been integrated with Chevron's world-wide additives
marketing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chevron, based in San Francisco, also said it will close
its lubricating oil additives plant in east Los Angeles early
next year, shifting that production to other facilities.
   The company attributed the closure to the plant's age and
to increasingly stringent air quality requirements in the Los
Angeles area. The plant has about 60 employees. A spokesman
for Chevron said the company's newest investment in Orogil
and its intended closure of the Los Angeles facility aren't
related.
   Separately, Chevron's Pittsburg &amp; Midway Coal Mining Co.
unit said it signed a letter of intent to form an equal joint
venture with Black Beauty Resources Inc. for the operation of
five coal mines in Indiana and Illinois. The amount of
Chevron's payment for its 50% stake in the partnership wasn't
disclosed. The venture will be known as Black Beauty Coal Co.
   The reserves acquired contain largely low-sulfur coal,
which Chevron has said it expects to become increasingly
sought after with new clean-air standards.
   Production from the five Black Beauty mines totaled 4.2
million tons last year. Pittsburg &amp; Midway, which operates
nine mines in six states, produced 15.1 million tons in 1989.
Closely held Black Beauty Resources is based in Evansville,
Ind.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Most Managers Lost Money in Quarter
   For Worst Results Since '87 Stock Crash
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   T.LWN WFSL GAM
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Most stock portfolio managers lost money in
the first quarter for their worst performance since the 1987
stock market crash. But managers buying growth and small
stocks fared better than the pack.
   Investment managers lost an average of 3.2% on their stock
portfolios in the first quarter, according to performance
figures for 514 managers compiled by CDA Investment
Technologies Inc., Rockville, Md. That put the money managers
slightly behind the overall stock market, as measured by the
Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index, which retreated 3% in the
first three months of the year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most money managers have trouble beating the S&amp;P-500 over
the years. But it is particularly embarrassing when the
professionals lose money for their clients. Prior to the
first quarter, stock managers last showed a decline in the
1988 third quarter, when portfolio values fell a negligible
0.2% on average. In the crash-ravaged 1987 fourth quarter,
managers' stock portfolios slumped an average of 24.1%, CDA
said.
   Many managers were hurt by the weakness in the first
quarter of stocks with large stock-market capitalizations.
Lower earnings and the end of the junk-bond financed takeover
boom took their toll on big stocks. That continued a trend
begun last year when many small stocks and growth stocks
began to shine.
   Tiger Management Corp. in New York, which has concentrated
its stock-picking in the growth-stock sector, was one of the
quarter's top-rated companies, with a 3.6% return. "We've
normally been kind of value players in buying cheap stocks,"
says Julian H. Robertson Jr., Tiger's president. "But we
think right now the most reasonable area has been the
conventional growth stocks, where you can buy the stock at a
lower {price-earnings} multiple than its growth rate," he
says.
   "If a company's earnings are growing 25% a year, and you
can buy {it} for 20 times earnings, you're almost
automatically bailed out if you're right about the growth
rate," he says.
   Profitable stocks for Tiger, which has $740 million under
management, included Federal Express Corp., Deere &amp; Co.,
Mattel Inc., Nike Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. "We did all
this without any real exposure to technology, and they were
the best stocks in the first quarter," Mr. Robertson says.
   Tiger also profited by anticipating the fall in the Tokyo
stock market. The company sold Japanese stocks short and held
puts on the Nikkei stock index, which became more valuable as
Tokyo stocks fell. In a short sale, an investor sells
borrowed shares, hoping to profit by replacing them later
with stock bought at lower prices.
   Because of those foreign investments, Tiger's
first-quarter performance was actually better than that
recorded by CDA, which excludes foreign securities.
   "We're still short," said Mr. Robertson of the Tokyo
market. "What has happened so far has only been a
correction." He added that he had expected the Japanese
decline long before it came.
   While Tiger avoided technology stocks in the first
quarter, another top performer, Amerindo U.S. Advisors Inc.,
buys nothing but electronic and biotechnology stocks, and
only small ones at that. The Lakespur, Calif., company that
manages about $438 million, follows an investment style of
buying stocks at their initial public offerings and selling
them when the companies reach annual sales of $300 million.
   "Shares of smaller technology stocks are still vastly
undervalued by all historical valuation standards," says Gary
A. Tanaka, who co-founded the company with Albert Vilar in
1979.
   In the biotechnology area, Mr. Tanaka expects that
"breakthroughs will revolutionize the health-care field,
culminating in sizable sales and earnings." Among the
company's holdings are Centocor Inc., Sequent Computer
Systems Inc., SynOptics Communications Inc. and Parametric
Technology Corp.
   Wasatch Advisors Inc. of Salt Lake City, another
small-stock manager that did well in the first quarter,
thinks that small stocks have finally turned the corner,
after being out of favor for much of the 1980s, says Vice
President Jeff Cardon. Founded in 1976 and now with $100
million under management, Wasatch invests only in small
stocks.
   Mr. Cardon likes Loewen Group Inc., a Vancouver, British
Columbia, company that is the second-largest operator of
funeral homes in North America. He favors the company, whose
stock is traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange, because of its
growth opportunities and noncyclical nature.
   "There are 20,000 funeral homes in North America, and
these guys are No. 2 {among chains} with less than 200
{homes}," he says. "It has no exposure to the economy
obviously," he adds.
   Another favorite is Seattle-based Washington Federal
Savings &amp; Loan, which Mr. Cardon calls "the best managed
company in our portfolio." As such, he says it can profit
from acquiring troubled S&amp;Ls. In addition, management's
"dividend income from their stock is higher than their
salaries," he says. "That's a great incentive."
   Friess Associates Inc., another top-rated company using a
growth-stock strategy, says it has done well by avoiding
those stocks with high price-earnings multiples. "We miss the
Wal-Marts, but for every Wal-Mart, we also missed a number of
shin-kickings," says Foster Friess, head of the company,
which has nearly $1 billion under management.
   Among the company's current holdings is L.A. Gear Inc.;
Mr. Friess says "the stock price has been a roller coaster,
but the earnings haven't." Other holdings include Adobe
Systems Inc., Conner Peripherals Inc. and Dayton Hudson Corp.
Mr. Friess says he is "quite conservative" about the overall
stock market, however, keeping about 15% of the company's
assets in cash, instead of the normal 6%.
   CDA compiles performance data based on reports that money
managers are required to file quarterly with the Securities
and Exchange Commission. Because of gaps in the filings, the
data aren't precise. CDA assumes, for example, that the
stocks held at the start of the quarter are kept in the
managers' portfolios for the entire quarter. Cash holdings,
bonds, convertible securities and foreign issues aren't
included. Fees and the various levels of risk that the
managers took to achieve their results also aren't
considered.
                                                                                                       

   Here are results for the top stock managers with accounts
of more than $10 million for the three months ended March 31
as compiled by CDA Investment Technologies Inc.:
                                                                                                       

   Firm                                               Gain
                                                                                                       

 Amerindo U.S. Advisors Inc., Lakespur, Calif.        11.3%
 Wasatch Advisors Inc., Salt Lake City                 6.9
 Oak Associates, Akron, Ohio                           6.4
 Beekman Capital Management Inc., New York             6.0
 Westridge Capital Management, Los Angeles             5.7
 Hintz, Holman, Hecksher, New York                     5.2
 Friess Associates Inc., Greenville, Del.              5.2
 Strategic Management Inc., Dallas                     4.4
 Tiger Management Corp., New York                      3.6
 Kunath Karren Rinne &amp; Atkin, Seattle                  3.1
                                                                                                       

   Here are results for the top stock managers with accounts
of more than $10 million for the 12 months ended March 31 as
compiled by CDA:
                                                                                                       

   Firm                                               Gain
                                                                                                       

 IDS International Inc., Minneapolis                  35.8%
 Yeager Wood &amp; Marshall, New York                     35.0
 Jundt/Capen Associates, Minneapolis                  34.5
 Tiger Management Corp., New York                     34.4
 General American Investors, New York                 32.5
 Lincoln Capital Management, Chicago                  30.7
 Provident Investment Counsel, Pasadena, Calif.       30.5
 Lynch &amp; Mayer, New York                              29.2

 Friess Associates Inc., Greenville, Del.             28.4
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Guilty Plea Entered
   In a Scandal Linked
   To Municipal Bonds
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Former investment banker Ira A. McCown Jr.,
considered by government prosecutors to be a key figure in a
continuing municipal-bond scandal, pleaded guilty to a
bond-related charge and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors.
   Mr. McCown was a senior vice president with Donaldson,
Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp. before leaving in 1986 to
form his own mortgage-brokerage firm. He pleaded guilty in
federal court in St. Louis to helping file a report with the
Internal Revenue Service in which a year-end 1985
municipal-bond issue was falsely described as being tax
exempt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bond lawyer James Newman entered into a similar plea
agreement with the government nearly two years ago and has
cooperated extensively with prosecutors, according to his
lawyer, Stephen Sachs. Mr. Newman currently is serving a
two-year prison sentence. He also agreed to serve as a
government witness.
   James Martin, the assistant U.S. attorney in St. Louis,
said he expects indictments to be handed up by this summer in
connection with a "nationwide scheme" where "numerous"
municipal bonds were sold as tax-exempt securities when they
actually were "arbitrage bonds," which don't qualify for tax
exemption. The government said in court papers that the bonds
weren't tax exempt because the proceeds from their sale were
invested in higher-yielding instruments with "no reasonable
expectations that the proposed projects would ever be
constructed."
   The specific bond issue named in Mr. McCown's case was the
same $10,650,000 St. Louis County, Mo., Industrial
Development Authority issue cited in the Newman case. The
bonds, which were supposed to finance a housing project but
never did, were sold at the end of 1985 when billions of
dollars of municipal bonds were rushed to market to beat a
federal tax change.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eastern Airlines
   Seeks to End Pact
   With Union Pilots
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   TEX LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Eastern Airlines said it asked for bankruptcy court
permission to break its pilots union contract in an attempt
to reduce its costs.
   The financially ailing Texas Air Corp. unit, suffering
heavy losses, estimated that abrogating the contract would
save it more than $50 million a year. If Eastern can break
the contract, it can unilaterally cut pilot pay and change
work rules.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The carrier has lately been struggling with its unsecured
creditors over a repayment proposal the creditors consider
inadequate, and has said it planned new steps to slash costs,
including seeking termination of its pilot union agreement,
as well as reducing operations and selling more planes.
   This is the second time Eastern has filed for permission
to break the contract. It first did so last June, but
withdrew the request within a month. If this attempt is
successful, it would mirror a move made seven years ago by
Texas Air chairman Frank Lorenzo, who put Texas Air's
Continental Airlines unit into Chapter 11 to abrogate its
contracts. Continental emerged from bankruptcy court a
low-cost, low-fare airline.
   Eastern's pact with the Air Line Pilots Association
expired in July 1988, and it has been negotiating with the
union for more than two years for a new contract. Under
airline labor law, terms of the old contract stay in effect
until a new one is signed or federal mediators declare the
two sides at an impasse.
   A spokesman for the pilots union said Eastern filed its
request after the National Mediation Board, which oversees
airline labor contracts, recessed indefinitely talks between
the pilots and the airline.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900405-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900405-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Zephyr Gets You There
   Slowly, but Scenically
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
TRANSPORTATION, TRUCK AND SHIP LINES, RAILROADS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   PLAINVIEW, Colo. -- Headlights piercing night, the
California Zephyr slowly descends the Rockies toward Denver,
far below. "It's like we're circling in an airplane," says
Clint Parker, an assistant conductor.
   But the Zephyr is no 747. Its journey from the West Coast
to Chicago takes 51 hours when it's on time -- which is
seldom. But the 2,422-mile route offers spectacular views of
snow-capped mountains, river valleys, ravines and deserts. No
wonder it's Amtrak's most popular train. In the summer, the
Zephyr averages 500 to 550 passengers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   From San Francisco, the through fare is $476, including
space in an economy bedroom and meals. That compares with the
one-way, restricted air coach fare of $498. The
stainless-steel cars are the same double-deck Superliners
that Amtrak uses on most of its Western trains. The dining
car has declined from the old Zephyr days but is much
improved from the early 1980s, when microwave cuisine
arrived.
   Fred Davison, a Mercedes-Benz service director from
Downingtown, Pa., says he and his wife are aboard because
"flying has got old hat. The romance is coming back into the
trains."
   The Zephyr reaches the Continental Divide at 9,239 feet
while traversing the 6.2-mile Moffat Tunnel. Then it begins
the sinuous descent into Denver, where the impressive station
recalls another era. Passengers stretch their legs while the
train takes on fuel and a mail car.
   After snaking through freight yards, the Zephyr opens up
to 79 miles an hour as it races through the night toward
Chicago. The next day brings views of farms. Some passengers
read. James Christen, a student from Naperville, Ill., plays
a videotape. Subject: the great streamliners of the 1940s
rounding curves and racing across prairies.
   (See related story: "Full Throttle: Stern Boss of Amtrak
Pushes to Wean Line Off Federal Subsidies --- Claytor's
Stress on Discipline Is Luring Back Passengers, But Cost Cuts
Rile Unions --- Still Needed: Capital Infusion" -- WSJ April
5, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
