<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dow Jones Equity Index
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SOUTHERN U.S. BANKS (BAS)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Citizens &amp; Southern Corp. and Sovran Financial
Corp., which are merging, are being deleted from the southern
regional banks industry group of the Dow Jones Equity Market
Index, effective today. The merged concern, C&amp;S/Sovran Corp.,
is being added to the group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Crisis in the Mideast Adds an Unexpected Twist
   To Midterm Elections Already Considered Pivotal
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Suddenly an unpredictable element -- the
Gulf crisis -- has been injected into the fall state and
congressional campaigns.
   For months, candidates have been carefully positioning
themselves on the issues of abortion, the thrift crisis,
campaign finance and the budget. But as the midterm campaigns
get under way in earnest this week, candidates in both
parties are wondering how the current crisis will skew
November's elections.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Iraq is the big `X' factor," says Kevin Phillips, the
Republican political theorist. "You have to know how many
casualties there are. You have to know what happens to
hostages. You have to know what happens to oil prices. And
you probably have to know what's happening with the stock
market."
   The political possibilities range from a move to
rally-'round-the-leader, which could help Republicans, to an
economic recession, which could be devastating to
Republicans, to a situation where a standoff or a shooting
war overwhelms all other issues.
   So far, candidates have approached the Middle East crisis
with deliberate caution, lining up behind the president and
seldom voicing any second thoughts about the massive
deployment of U.S. soldiers and materiel to Saudi Arabia;
only in a few scattered states have even the faintest hints
emerged of a debate over U.S. policy toward Saddam Hussein.
But in the next nine weeks, as the contours of the Gulf
crisis become clearer, the issue will surely take on a
political tint.
   "We have moved into the most volatile two months of an
election year in memory," says Paul Maslin, a Democratic
political pollster. "It's foolhardy to think that there won't
be any impact, but it's foolhardy to predict what the impact
will be."
   The Gulf crisis becomes a wild card in a campaign that
already has carried enormous political implications.
   The fall elections will not only determine control of the
governor's office in 35 states, including close contests in
three critical states -- Florida, Texas and California. They
also will play a substantial role in the struggle over
abortion rights -- now primarily a state issue -- and will
have a direct effect on reapportionment and next year's
struggle to redraw the nation's legislative-district lines.
   "These elections will have a lot to say about who serves
in Congress in the next decade," says Alan Heslop, research
associate at the Rose Institute of State and Local Government
at California's Claremont McKenna College. "Parties that lose
in November lose more than one election, because a party in
power can gerrymander itself into retaining a majority for
the rest of the decade."
   Moreover, the fall elections are an important overture to
1992, when President Bush presumably will seek a second term
and when control of the Senate, now held with a 55-45 margin
by the Democrats, could be at stake.
   Democrats must do well in this fall's elections to
buttress themselves for 1992, when they defend 20 seats,
including those of 11 freshmen, many of whom won by extremely
small margins. The Republicans feel that if they can pick up
at least two or three seats, they can win control of the
Senate in the presidential election year of 1992.
   Meanwhile, as the nation girds for possible war and
recession, the candidates are worrying whether their campaign
messages might seem out of sync with public concerns.
   "The situation is forcing people to reconsider their
strategies," says Rep. Beryl Anthony of Arkansas, chairman of
the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. "The budget
and the S&amp;L crisis are off the front page, so a lot of ads
and speeches all of a sudden seem out of context."
   At the same time, a number of groups that saw the fall
elections as a critical juncture are troubled that the public
won't get a chance to focus on issues such as abortion. On
television, in newspapers and on the street corner, Iraq is
crowding out nearly every other issue.
   "This crisis is of very great importance, but I'm worried
about the distraction it causes," says Kate Michelman,
executive director of the National Abortion Rights Action
League. "People aren't talking about change at the Supreme
Court -- a factor that is going to affect the fabric of our
lives for many years to come. And interest in major domestic
issues has diminished."
   Burke Balch, legislative director of the National Right to
Life Committee, believes that the Iraq crisis might help
anti-abortion candidates. Abortion-rights activists "aren't
going to retain their single-issue voters on abortion --
their supporters are interested in a lot of issues, not only
abortion -- but we'll retain ours," he says.
   For the time being at least, many analysts feel that
deepening public concern about events in the Persian Gulf
might benefit incumbents who otherwise were facing the threat
of an anti-Washington backlash. Though the crisis has
accelerated the economic slide, it has also kept incumbents
involved in the summer's major news story in a way that
challengers can't match, and it has diverted attention from
anti-incumbent issues such as the budget standoff and the S&amp;L
bailout.
   "People may not be willing to make quite as many changes,"
says Celinda Lake, a Democratic political pollster. "And
there seem to be bigger issues to talk about than whether
your representative in Congress took an honorarium or not."
   This year's struggles for the governor's office have the
potential to overshadow the congressional elections. Nowhere
is a gubernatorial race more important than in California,
where GOP Sen. Pete Wilson and Democrat Dianne Feinstein, the
former San Francisco mayor, are running even in the polls;
the winner will preside over reapportionment of the nation's
largest state. As a result of this year's census, California
is expected to add seven House seats to the 47 it currently
holds.
   At the same time, races on the state level will determine
control of important state legislatures, including the New
York state Senate, now dominated by Republicans, and both
houses in Pennsylvania, where Republicans control the Senate
and Democrats control the House.
   In races for national offices, Republicans hope they can
knock off Democratic incumbents in Hawaii, Iowa and Rhode
Island. They expect to hold almost all their own seats,
including in North Carolina, where, in perhaps the nation's
hottest race, Jesse Helms is facing a tough challenge from
former Democratic Mayor Harvey Gantt of Charlotte.
   Little change is expected in the House, where the
re-election rate in the past decade was 94.5%. The Democrats
hope to add marginally to their 62-seat majority. Republicans
take comfort in the argument that the party holding the White
House normally loses seats in midterm elections;
nevertheless, such a loss would underscore the party's
weakness in House races. Even if they held their own,
Republicans would return with only 176 seats.
   As the campaign season gets under way, Republicans are
viewing the president's high support ratings with caution.
"Loss of life {in a Gulf war} could make a big difference,"
warns Linda DiVall, a GOP political consultant. "And when you
combine the economic uncertainties, there's real volatility.
These factors could cause a lot of short-term surges on voter
decisions, and they could either reward or punish the
president's party."
   ---
                       What's at Stake
                                                                                                       

   The following offices are being contested in this fall's
elections:
                                                                                                       

                                 CURRENTLY HELD BY
                          -------------------------------
                          DEMOCRATS           REPUBLICANS
                                                                                                       

 Governor                   19                     16
 U.S. Senator               17                     18
 U.S. Representative       258                    176
 Control of state houses    33                     11

 Control of both chambers   25                      9
   ---
                        Redrawing the Map
                                                                                                       

   Preliminary population estimates from the U.S. Census show
likely changes in the size of states' delegations to the
House.
                                                                                                       

                         The Winners
                                                                                                       

                   CONGRESSIONAL           NEW
                      DELEGATION    DELEGATION    % CHANGE
                          CHANGE          SIZE  POPULATION*
                                                                                                       

 Arizona                      +1             6        +33%
 California                   +7            52        +24
 Florida                      +4            23        +31
 Georgia                      +1            11        +17
 North Carolina               +1            12        +12
 Texas                        +3            30        +19
 Virginia                     +1            11        +15
 Washington                   +1             9        +17
                                                                                                       

                          The Losers
                                                                                                       

                   CONGRESSIONAL           NEW
                      DELEGATION    DELEGATION    % CHANGE
                          CHANGE          SIZE  POPULATION*
                                                                                                       

 Illinois                     -2            20        - 1%
 Iowa                         -1             5        - 5
 Kansas                       -1             4        + 5
 Kentucky                     -1             6          0
 Louisiana                    -1             7          0
 Massachusetts                -1            10        + 4
 Michigan                     -2            16        - 1
 Montana                      -1             1        + 1
 New Jersey                   -1            13        + 4
 New York                     -3            31        + 1
 Ohio                         -2            19          0
 Pennsylvania                 -2            21        - 1
 West Virginia                -1             3        - 8
                                                                                                       

   *Based on preliminary 1990 figures vs. final 1980 figures
                                                                                                       

   Source: Election Data Services, Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Premark International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PMI WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
CONSUMER AND HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS (HPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PREMARK INTERNATIONAL Inc. (Deerfield, Ill.) -- James M.
Ringler, executive vice president, was named to the
additional post of president of the Food Equipment Group of
this consumer and restaurant products concern. He succeeds
Robert J.M. Fisher, who left the company to pursue other
interests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Air Polluted by Carbon Monoxide Poses
   Risk to Heart Patients, Study Shows
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Exposure to polluted air can provoke life-threatening
irregular heart beats in people already suffering from
coronary artery disease, a study says.
   The report adds to a growing body of evidence that carbon
monoxide -- a common urban pollutant emitted in auto exhaust
and by industrial smokestacks -- has a pernicious effect on
the heart. Such findings are particularly troubling for urban
residents and their doctors as well as for policy makers
charged with setting air pollution standards, health
researchers say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the most recent study, published in the current issue
of Annals of Internal Medicine, scientists found that heart
patients exposed to high levels of carbon monoxide suffered
three times more complex irregular heart beats during
subsequent exercise than when they were exposed to regular
room air.
   Such complex arrhythmias are the most common cause of
sudden death from coronary artery disease. "Cardiac patients
should avoid exercise in or around areas of high pollution,"
said David S. Sheps, professor of medicine at the University
of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, and the lead author of the
report.
   Carbon monoxide is attracted to hemoglobin, the blood's
oxygen-carrying protein, and as its levels in the blood
increase, it restricts the flow of oxygen-rich blood to the
heart and other organs. Previous studies have shown that at
levels of 2% to 4% carbon monoxide exacerbates symptoms of
coronary artery obstruction that lead to heart attacks.
   The study by Dr. Sheps and colleagues at the University of
North Carolina and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
is among the first controlled trials to show that carbon
monoxide also increases the occurrence of irregular heart
beats.
   In the experiment, 41 non-smoking heart patients -- 36 men
and five women with an average age of 62 -- were exposed on
separate days to non-polluted air, and air with carbon
monoxide concentrations to raise so-called carboxyhemoglobin
levels to 4% and 6%. The researchers said some people who
exercise for an hour or more in air that marginally exceeded
certain EPA standards could achieve such levels of carbon
monoxide in their blood. In nonsmokers, normal
carboxyhemoglobin levels range from 0.5% to 1.5%, Dr. Sheps
said. Smokers commonly have chronic levels from 4% to 6%.
   Under double-blind testing procedures, neither the
patients nor the researchers knew the exposure levels during
each session. The patients then exercised on stationary
bicycles for about 15 minutes in non-polluted air.
   Patients experienced significantly more single abnormal
heart beats and more complex arrhythmias at 6%
carboxyhemoglobin levels, but not at 4% levels, the
researchers found. Dr. Sheps said the link with complex
arrhythmias was the most important finding because they are
most directly associated with cardiac arrest and other
"adverse events." Older patients, and those who exercised
longer and at higher workloads were more likely to experience
the complex irregular heart beats, the researchers said.
   Without significant effects at 4% levels, Dr. Sheps said
that exercise for heart patients in relatively low air
pollution probably wasn't troublesome and he cautioned
against extending his study's findings too far. But he noted
that the researchers found no correlation between irregular
heart beats and symptoms from coronary artery obstruction,
indicating that carbon monoxide may cause heart damage in
different ways, triggering some adverse responses at lower
levels than others.
   In an editorial accompanying the report, two heart
researchers from Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine
said that in light of mounting evidence of the dangers of
carbon monoxide, doctors should consider a patient's level of
carbon monoxide exposure in managing their disease.
   Sandra M. Walden and Sidney O. Gottlieb, of the school's
division of cardiology also described as "alarming" the
number of days some cities exceed EPA limits for common
pollutants (about 80 days a year in New York City) and urged
doctors to "firmly and collectively {encourage} medically
responsible environmental regulation."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Business Failure Rate Grows, Fueling Recession Worries
   ---
   Increase May Rise to 15% for Year;
   More Established Concerns Folding
   ----
   By Brent Bowers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   The upturn in business failures that began this spring is
gaining momentum, adding to fears that the U.S. is heading
for a recession.
   Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp. says the number of business
failures has shot up 11.7% so far this year from the same
1989 period, to 37,400 from 33,500, reversing last year's
strong 13% drop.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Business failures had been on the decline for three years,
a trend that continued through the early months of this year.
But the failure rate rose abruptly in April. Overwhelmingly,
the failed companies are small businesses.
   The increase is "almost a straight line, week by week,"
says Dun &amp; Bradstreet chief economist Joseph Duncan. In the
exceptionally grim week ended Aug. 25, the most recent week
recorded, failures totaled 1,348, the highest number this
year and a 46% rise from a year earlier.
   The trend suggests that the rise for all of this year
could reach 15%, Mr. Duncan says. But even the depressing
figures don't tell the whole story, he says, because until
fairly recently many failures were new businesses that just
couldn't make a go of it. But now "we're getting real stress
on the balance sheet" of established companies, he says.
"This is a new phenomenon."
   Perhaps the sharpest turn for the worse has occurred in
New England, which experienced exceptional growth through the
1980s, economists say. Dun &amp; Bradstreet doesn't have a
breakdown by region. But William Dunkelberg, dean of Temple
University's School of Business and Management, says that
entrepreneurs in New England and elsewhere, infected with the
"exuberance" of an economic expansion, created a glut of
businesses that can't be sustained in hard times. Thus, a
shakeout is inevitable.
   "The reality isn't all that bad, but compared with the
dream world they've been in, it's pretty tough," he says.
   One example is Hot Heads Haircare Inc., a Topsfield,
Mass., firm selling women's hairpieces to beauty salons. Hot
Heads folded this summer when it defaulted on $170,000 of
debt. Its assets were turned over to the company's creditors.
   Richard Nicolo, who helped start the company three years
ago, says Hot Heads' annual sales reached $1.3 million by its
second year. But costs were growing even faster. Instead of
concentrating on controlling costs, Mr. Nicolo spent most of
his time trying to raise money to grow faster. "We were
gearing up for projected sales rather than the sales base
that we had," he says. "We spent a year losing focus."
   Dun &amp; Bradstreet's gauge of failures covers only companies
whose collapse entails a loss to creditors. Firms that cease
operations without inflicting such damage outnumber those
that do 4 to 1, it estimates. This would mean that a total of
about 187,000 businesses have closed their doors so far this
year.
   Cynthia Latta, senior financial economist at DRI/McGraw
Hill Inc., says she was surprised by the magnitude of the
increase reported by Dun &amp; Bradstreet, though not by the
upward trend itself. With both companies and consumers
cutting spending, and banks getting stingier on lending,
small businesses are getting squeezed, she says. New or
struggling enterprises "haven't been able to accumulate the
capital you need to carry you through hard times," she says.
   "All the numbers suggest the economy is on the verge of a
recession," Ms. Latta adds. "This is one more piece of
evidence."
   Recession was on the minds of other economists, too. The
Small Business Administration's Bill Whiston rates the chance
50-50 that the economy will contract for two consecutive
quarters, the generally accepted definition of a recession.
And Gordon Richards of the National Association of
Manufacturers says his group has just reversed its position
that an economic "soft landing" will avert a downturn, and is
now forecasting that a mild recession will begin in late
September and last eight months.
   Jeff Malone, president of the International Association of
Businesses, which represents about 140,000 small family
concerns, complains that even productive businesses are
finding it hard to compete against price-cutting rivals as
labor and insurance costs go up and the expense of complying
with government regulations rises.
   Although economists debate the impact of the credit crunch
on small businesses, Raleigh Minor, a consultant with New
York turnaround-consulting firm Allomet Partners Ltd., says
getting loans has become next to impossible for many
concerns. In the aftermath of the savings-and-loan crisis,
regulators are increasing pressure on banks to tighten credit
standards. Banks in turn are giving small borrowers "a
horribly hard time," Mr. Minor says. "Any firms associated
with real estate . . . smell as if skunks have been all over
them." The recent spurt in oil prices is bound to hurt
businesses such as plastic molders that are dependent on the
petroleum industry for supplies, he adds.
   With times getting tougher, experts urge companies to
increase efforts to protect their financial strength. For
instance, some urge intensifying scrutiny of customers'
creditworthiness. Donald Kramer, a St. Louis collection
attorney with more than 100 employees in four offices, says
some credit executives accept orders from companies they know
nothing about, often letting a "fancy-sounding name" fool
them. "A large, unsolicited order is a red flag," he
cautions.
   ---
   Michael Selz contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Stock Market Suspends 4 Firms
   On Charges of Manipulating Stock Prices
   ----
   By Clay Chandler and Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN CCI J.DST
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- As Japan's beleaguered stock market rapidly loses
its luster of invincibility, regulators are toughening their
stance on stock-price manipulation.
   Officials sent a clear signal that they intend to crack
down on improper trading when the Finance Ministry and Tokyo
Stock Exchange moved Friday to punish four securities firms
-- including a Citicorp subsidiary -- that allegedly
participated in a stock-rigging scheme earlier this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ministry said that it will temporarily suspend the
licenses of four securities houses -- Daiwa Securities Co.,
National Securities Co., Ace Securities Co. and London-based
Citicorp Scrimgeour Vickers Co. -- as punishment for their
role in assisting a prominent corporate raider's attempt to
artificially inflate the stock of one of Japan's largest
hotel and restaurant chains. In separate statements, the
firms acknowledged their roles.
   Each of the three Japanese houses will be required to
close a retail branch office for two days, but the suspension
won't hurt them much because each has numerous other offices
through which they can do business. Citicorp Scrimgeour
Vickers's Tokyo branch office was closed for one day,
yesterday.
   The Tokyo Stock Exchange, following a rule in its articles
of association that require it to impose concurrent
penalties, said it would suspend those same offices' trading
privileges on the exchange for those days. In addition, the
exchange summoned representatives of the four firms and
imposed fines of 500,000 yen ($3,500) on each company -- the
maximum financial penalty the exchange can exact.
   "It's just symbolic," said Robert Zielinski, a financial
analyst at Jardine Fleming Securities Co. "But the
authorities are making a good show of it."
   He noted that regulators this year have cracked down on
securities companies for a number of improper activities.
Daiwa and several other securities companies were fined by
tax authorities for improperly paying compensation to large
clients who lost money during the Black Monday market decline
in 1987, and Daiwa also was accused of protecting some large
fund-management clients. The government and the stock
exchange also have increased the number of possible
insider-trading cases under investigation, just a year after
passing a stringent insider-trading law.
   "The Finance Ministry is taking a much tougher stance
compared to just a couple of years ago," said Masatoshi
Yasuda, general manager of Citicorp Scrimgeour Vickers. "We
have to retrain our sales persons because the market
environment is changing."
   The tighter regulatory environment has accompanied a steep
decline in share prices on the once-highflying Tokyo
exchange. Since closing 1989 at a record 38915.87, the Nikkei
average of 225 stocks has plunged more than 35%, closing
Monday at 25420.43, down 557.94 points.
   Friday's actions were the first authorities have taken
against Japanese securities firms since 1980, when Okasan
Securities Co. was punished for a similar violation. The
measures against Citicorp are the first taken against a
foreign firm for stock manipulation. Citicorp and other
foreign firms weren't even allowed to join the Tokyo Stock
Exchange until 1986.
   "We take this very seriously," Citicorp's Mr. Yasuda said.
Although the financial costs of shutting for a day are
"negligible," he said, the punitive action "is very
embarrassing."
   The three Japanese securities companies issued statements
apologizing for any improper activities. "We are giving these
measures grave consideration," a Daiwa spokesman said. "In
the future, we will implement policies to ensure that this
sort of thing does not happen again. We want to do our utmost
to regain the trust of our investors."
   Kodo Shimizu, a spokesman for Ace Securities said, "Our
entire firm is working to restore trust and prevent the
recurrence of securities incidents." National is "deeply
sorry for this regrettable incident which has troubled
society," a statement said. "The entire board of directors
recognizes its social responsibility and intends to work to
prevent similar incidents from happening again."
   The alleged stock-manipulation scheme took place last
April, when investor Mitsuhiro Kotani, a close friend of
former Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone, attempted to boost
the price of Fujita Tourist Enterprises Co. in order to repay
debts he owed to Kokusai Kogyo, an investment firm in which
he served as a director. Mr. Kotani had used his position as
a leading stock holder in Kokusai Kogyo Co. to borrow an
estimated 19 billion yen from the firm and its subsidiaries.
   Strapped for cash when the loans came due, Mr. Kotani
allegedly hatched a bold -- and illegal -- plan to bail
himself out, police said. The gambit involved boosting the
value of the hotel chain's stock, of which Mr. Kotani's
company, Koshin Co., owned four million shares. During a five
day period in April, Mr. Kotani and an associate, Shuichi
Yamamoto, used false names to trade Fujita shares between
each other using the four securities companies as
intermediaries.
   The manuever succeeded at first. The value of Fujita stock
soared from 3,900 yen to 5,200 yen a share and after
allegedly selling his inflated shares Mr. Kotani was able to
pay off more than half of his debt.
   The scheme backfired because authorities at the Tokyo
Stock Exchange became alarmed at the sudden increase in
volume of Fujita stock being traded and mounted an
investigation, authorities said. Three months later, the
Tokyo District Prosecutor's Office arrested Mr. Kotani and
Mr. Yamamoto for stock manipulation.
   Ministry officials say the four securities firms violated
Article 50 of Japan's Securities and Exchange Law, which
prohibits brokers from knowingly trading stocks that they
have reason to believe have been artificially inflated.
   The ministry's punishment of the four firms carries no
criminal penalty, and the Ministry of Justice has decided not
to prosecute the four securities companies, a Finance
Ministry official said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bechtel Group Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DD
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Bechtel Group Inc. said its Houston
office received a contract to expand a resource-recovery
facility for Conoco Inc.
   Terms of the deal weren't disclosed, but Bechtel, a
construction company, said the expansion was valued at $140
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Saudi Oil Output Crucial in Case of War
   ---
   Debate Grows on How Fighting
   Could Affect Supply
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST TX
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Despite Iraq's muted overtures to negotiate its way out of
the crisis in the Persian Gulf, oil strategists continue to
calculate the potential impact of war on that fertile
crescent of energy.
   Their focus: Saudi Arabia's oil production, which experts
deem to be the difference between adequate or short global
petroleum supplies. Crucial to world-wide energy security is
the Saudi pledge to boost production by two million barrels
daily, an action that will make up half of the output lost to
the Iraq-Kuwait embargo.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even with that additional production, "the oil market is
very tight, with no slack," says John Lichtblau, chairman of
Petroleum Industry Research Foundation. "If anything
technical goes wrong elsewhere in the world, there will be a
shortage."
   Industry experts say the big worry in any military faceoff
isn't only that an Iraqi strike would knock out Saudi oil
fields. It is the potential immobilization of Ras Tanura,
Saudi Arabia's primary export facility on the Persian Gulf.
According to one executive familiar with the port, equipment
there is densely situated and vulnerable. And with Ras Tanura
crippled, the Saudis would be hard put to export as much as
half of the 7.5 million barrels of daily production they have
promised.
   "If four million barrels out of Ras Tanura is lost, the
world is in bad shape," says one high-ranking oil executive.
"We'd have to turn to inventory; in the U.S., to the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve."
   So far, most oil experts believe that the Saudis, backed
by the U.S., would have adequate warning of an Iraqi strike,
as well as the capability of shooting down attacking missiles
or aircraft. "Anti-missile systems have been put in place and
AWACs {special radar aircraft} are in the air," says one oil
executive.
   But strategists still ponder alternatives. The Saudis
could boost exports via pipeline to the Red Sea port of Yanbu
to 3.2 million barrels a day from current 1.5 million
barrels. That pipeline, experts say, is underused because it
is cheaper to export oil through the Persian Gulf on tankers.
   If the loading wharves at Ras Tanura were put out of
action, oil industry officials also say tankers could still
take on oil from low-lying Sea Island facilities constructed
almost 1.5 miles offshore the port. "They don't have much
mass, so they'd be harder to hit" than onshore facilities,
says one expert.
   It hasn't been easy for combatants in the past to shut
down fully Persian Gulf oil shipping. Iraq couldn't seem to
incapacitate Kharg Island, Iran's primary export facility,
during their bitter eight-year war. Despite repeated
airstrikes on loading facilities there, Iran was able to keep
oil moving by feverishly rebuilding after each hit.
   And many independent tankers, scared away from Kharg by
the high risk of attack, filled up on Iranian crude at Lavan
and Sirri Islands in the southern tip of the Persian Gulf. To
move the oil to those islands, the Iranians created their own
shuttle of tankers -- some with highly paid commandos on
board whose sole mission was to save cargo and crew in case
of attack.
   In the current crisis, the heavy presence of naval vessels
in the Gulf is expected to lessen the peril to shipping and
make closure of the Strait of Hormuz improbable.
   "If fighting breaks out, we don't envision any major
disruptions to other OPEC producers" in the Persian Gulf or
elsewhere, says Brice A. Sachs, principal with International
Energy Consultants Ltd. and a former Exxon executive. Output
from Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Oman, Iran and even tiny
Bahrain should continue unimpeded, experts say, though they
note those producers couldn't replace Saudi barrels that
might be lost to a war.
   However, attacks on production or export facilities of
Saudi Arabia would probably drive oil prices to $40 a barrel
within days, oil industry executives say privately. Refiners
heavily dependent on Middle Eastern production, such as Star
Enterprises, Texaco Inc.'s joint venture with the Saudis,
would be especially vulnerable.
   In theory, the impact should be delayed. Middle East oil,
known within industry circles as "long-haul" crude, can take
as many as six weeks to reach the U.S. Thus it should take
that long before a supply pinch is felt. But in a market so
driven by psychology, perception of a shortage is all it
would take to tighten supplies and drive up prices. Hoarding
would undoubtedly take most, if not all, surplus barrels off
the market immediately.
   Even without any loss of Saudi production, crude-oil
supplies are expected to tighten as winter demand picks up.
"By October, the world will be demanding more oil than it can
supply," with much of the current inventory overhang pared
away, says John Redpath, analyst for Energy Security Analysis
Inc.
   Analysts predict that the one-million-barrel daily
production shortfall anticipated in the months ahead will
grow to two million barrels as energy needs increase in cold
weather. The only way out of that, says Tom Burns, manager of
economics for Chevron Corp., will be for higher oil prices to
damp demand and reduce consumption.
   Already, in efforts to secure sufficient oil supplies,
some major U.S. refiners are trying to squeeze extra barrels
from producing countries with which they already have supply
contracts. All potential sources of additional supplies are
currently being examined. The trading room at one of the
nation's largest oil companies has at times been operating on
a 24-hour basis to ensure that enough crude supplies will be
available.
   Actual oil supplies aren't yet short, experts say. And the
Paris-based International Energy Agency says it will take a
shortage of 7% before a so-called sharing agreement among its
members goes into effect. That plan, once activated, will
call upon most of the industrialized world to uniformly draw
down inventories and cut consumption, possibly through
rationing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Here's an Instance Where Bankers
   Don't Bemoan Over-Regulation
   ----
   By Ron Suskind
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Today, plenty of bankers in white shirts (better to show
the tan) are returning to old mail and August phone messages
after nice long vacations. At least two weeks. Gotta be two
weeks. Or they might get slapped with a regulatory citation.
   What? Has America's banking crisis come to this:
Regulators are now ordering mandatory vacations?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Absolutely. In fact, they've been doing it for years.
   "It's banking folk wisdom that, believe it or not, is
actually written into our regulatory procedures," says Ellen
Stockdale of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
which regulates all federally insured banks. The two-week
policy applies to savings and loans and credit unions as
well. The idea, says Ms. Stockdale, is that "in 10
consecutive business days off, if someone's hand is in the
till, it will show up. It's hard to manipulate the books when
you're on vacation."
   That's right. Summertime . . . and the investigating is
easy.
   The policy "is especially useful in certain types of
fraud, like check kites, deposit scams and playing with trust
funds," says James G. Richmond, who oversees the Justice
Department's probes of savings and loan fraud. "It's not a
simple matter of arresting people after their August getaway,
but in terms of bank fraud, vacation time is a good place to
start."
   Whether banks have a branch in the U.S. or are based here,
they are governed by U.S. regulatory guidelines. Constantin
Phacos, a vice president in the Geneva office of
Manufacturers Hanover Corp., was vacationing in Washington,
D.C., last fall when a customer's call alerted a bank clerk
to accounting irregularities. Mr. Phacos was called home from
his vacation and charged with embezzlement, forgery and
misappropriation of client funds. He denies the charges,
which haven't yet come to trial. Manufacturers Hanover
recently took a $50 million charge against earnings to cover
his alleged crimes.
   "The first thing you should be suspicious of," says Clare
Sykes of New York's Banking Department, "is anyone in banking
who doesn't want to take a vacation.
   "The problem is with Japanese bankers who work here for
banks based in Japan," Ms. Sykes adds. "They're used to
getting one week, and here they take two. But they always are
adamant that we note in our examination reports that it is
required {by regulators}. Otherwise their bosses in Tokyo
will think they're sloughing off."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   SEI Appoints Greer
   To Post of President
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SEIC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
</IN>
<LP>
   WAYNE, Pa. -- SEI Corp. said Henry H. Greer was elected
president and chief operating officer.
   Mr. Greer, 52 years old, has been a director of the
company for 12 years, and most recently was executive vice
president in charge of SEI's benefit-services unit and its
information-services division, the company's largest
operation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He is a former International Business Machines Corp.
branch manager and a former GTE Corp. marketing executive.
   As SEI's president, he succeeds Alfred P. West Jr., who
remains chairman and chief executive. A company spokesman
said the position of chief operating officer had been vacant
for several years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inco Ltd. Indonesian Explosion
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   N T.N
</CO>
<IN>
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Inco Ltd. said an explosion killed two workers
at one of the three electric furnaces at the PT International
Nickel Indonesia nickel smelter.
   The nickel producer, which owns about 58% of the
Indonesian company, said it didn't yet know the extent of
damage from the explosion, which it said was apparently
caused by a water leak.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Inco said production has been halted at the smelter since
Aug. 25 for five weeks of repairs and other work related to
an expansion program.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italy's Consumer Prices Up
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MILAN, Italy -- Italy's consumer price index rose 6.3% in
August from a year earlier and was up 0.7% from July, the
state statistical institute reported.
   Istat said the index registered 106.6 in August, compared
with 105.9 in July.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The index (1989 equals 100) isn't seasonally adjusted.
   The August increase followed a 0.4% monthly rise in July,
when the year-to-year increase was 5.7%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Plans to Lift Cost-Cutting Goal
   To $2.5 Billion, Maintain Stock Payout
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz and Paul Ingrassia
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   C FIA
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. plans to extend its
corporate cost-cutting campaign until June 30 and raise the
goal to $2.5 billion -- $1 billion higher than previously
disclosed.
   The struggling auto maker needs the cost cuts to cope with
a surge in buyer-incentive costs to an industry average of
about $1,250 a vehicle, up from just $500 a vehicle two years
ago, said Lee A. Iacocca, the company's chairman. "If we can
get to $2.5 billion, I'll give our guys a lot of credit," he
said. "The last $1 billion obviously gets a little harder."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In an interview, Mr. Iacocca said that, had his travel
schedule been slightly different, he might have been caught
in the midst of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. He had been
scheduled to depart Nov. 1 on a trip to Kuwait and Saudi
Arabia to visit new distributors of Chrysler products. The
trip was canceled after the invasion.
   The executive also made the following points:
   -- Chrysler is committed to maintaining its common-stock
dividend, currently 30 cents a share quarterly. At the
current price of $13.875 a share the stock's dividend yield
is 8.6%, and Chrysler's cumulative earnings during the past
three quarters haven't been enough to cover the payout. "But
all good companies go through some periods where they don't
earn the dividend but continue to pay it," Mr. Iacocca said.
   -- The departure in May of Gerald Greenwald as Chrysler's
vice chairman was "a bit of an emotional jolt for me" because
he had selected Mr. Greenwald to succeed him one day. The top
two contenders now are vice chairman R.S. Miller, 48 years
old, and Robert A. Lutz, the 58-year-old president of
Chrysler Motors. "I'll watch the two of them for the next 12
months and make a decision," Mr. Iacocca said, adding,
however, that he won't retire "until things are squared away"
at Chrysler.
   -- Chrysler hopes to find "a good European partner" to
cooperate on vehicle development and distribution, and is
currently talking with several companies, including Italy's
Fiat S.p.A. "Will anything come of those?" he asked. "Nothing
yet. Will it be a big deal? I would think it will start with
things like minivans and Jeeps, our strengths." It's less
likely, Mr. Iacocca added, that a foreign auto maker would
buy a big equity stake in Chrysler, because Chrysler doesn't
currently need a cash infusion and prospective buyers are
wary. "It's the old story," he said. "They want to wait and
see how well you're doing."
   Mr. Iacocca portrayed his cost-cutting effort as crucial
to returning Chrysler to healthy profitability. The company
already is close to reaching its initial goal of cutting $1.5
billion from its cost base, he said, since the program began
last July.
   Without those cuts, he added, Chrysler would be running in
the red right now. The company's first-half earnings plunged
64% from a year ago, to $251 million on sales of $16.5
billion.
   If Chrysler's cost cuts can reach $2.5 billion, Mr.
Iacocca explained, the company should weather the next two
years without eating into its $4.5 billion of cash on hand.
By then, Chrysler will be launching a crucial line of
mid-sized cars code-named LH.
   But the wild card, Mr. Iacocca acknowledged, is if car and
truck sales take an unexpectedly steep plunge in the months
ahead, perhaps because of the Persian Gulf crisis. In that
case, he said, "the worst I think will happen is we'll run
through $750 million in cash in each of the next two years.
I'll blow a full $1.5 billion, but I'll still have $3 billion
to run on without any sweat at night."
   Chrysler's cost-cutting methods have included a broad
range of actions, from layoffs and company-travel
restrictions to eliminating most company-paid newspapers and
magazine subscriptions. The company also eliminated merit
raises for salaried employees and bonuses for eligible
executives.
   Some of the measures are being undone. Chrysler reinstated
merit raises a few months ago. And 1,800 senior employees
will receive stock awards to offset the loss of their bonus
pay, which can be one-third or more of an executive's total
compensation.
   Still, the stringency has taken its toll on morale. While
the resignations of Mr. Greenwald and a couple of other
high-level executives have received the most publicity, many
at Chrysler are more concerned about departures in
upper-middle management, where many operational
responsibilities lie.
   For example, Mr. Iacocca acknowledged that several
engineers with expertise in the key area of tailpipe
emissions recently have left Chrysler for Ford Motor Co.
Another top engineer has returned to teaching, and a
high-level management-information specialist has left to join
Honeywell Inc.
   Also, Michael V. Howe, who as general manager of the
Chrysler-Plymouth division had a high-level marketing job,
recently left to run the Detroit office of Young &amp; Rubicam,
an advertising agency that handles the account of Ford's
Lincoln-Mercury division.
   Mr. Iacocca acknowledged that keeping morale up at
Chrysler has been "increasingly difficult" lately. But he was
philosophical about the recent departures. "The fact that you
lose some good guys isn't all bad," he said. "Because if your
guys were never looked at {by other companies}, you'd think,
`Gee, I thought I had such great guys, but nobody wants them
but me.'"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong Watchmakers Hope Easing
   Of Labeling Rules Will Boost Exports
   ----
   By Robert Sherbin
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST J.CTW
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Hong Kong watchmakers believe they may be on
the cusp of a major export spurt, thanks to the anticipated
easing of a local labeling rule.
   The change would permit Hong Kong manufacturers to stamp
such designations as "Swiss" or "Japan" on the faces of
locally assembled watches whose movements originated in those
places.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The relaxed rules, expected early next year in the
government's code covering point-of-origin designations, may
boost foreign watch sales some 30% to 40%, according to
leaders of the local industry. Hong Kong made roughly
two-fifths of the 260 million timepieces sold last year, they
said.
   Producers from Japan and Taiwan are likely to shift some
operations to the colony, where their major parts suppliers
are located, once the looser rules are implemented, they
claim. And local makers should find new market niches opening
to them.
   The new labeling rule is considered a major easing in the
current stringent guidelines that apply to Hong Kong's 1,300
watchmaking companies. They require that if an origin label
is prominently used, it must reflect where the final assembly
work was done. Consequently, even if a watch's key parts came
from Switzerland, the final product couldn't bear the
European label if the labor-intensive final packaging work
was done by a local company either in the colony or
neighboring Guangdong Province, where many of its factories
are located.
   Industry executives say origin labeling is a critical
marketing tool.
   Bob Chong, president of the Hong Kong Watch Manufacturers
Association, a leading trade association, conceded that while
Hong Kong producers have come a long way since the early
1960s when watches first took on local industrial
significance, the colony's products still don't have much
panache.
   "We have an image problem here, being associated with
cheap watches," he conceded. "We should be more appealing
after the change."
   He and others have battled for looser labeling rules since
the mid-1980s. But the government had resisted their pleas
until last year when Switzerland finally codified its own
watch-labeling rules, according to Patrick Li, a trade
department official involved in the issue. Once Bern's rules
were established, Hong Kong began the process of drafting
roughly parallel regulations, which are in line with those in
most other countries.
   Mr. Chong said the move would provide a badly needed shot
in the arm for the industry. While some believe it could
ultimately lead to a doubling in total foreign sales, he said
an increase of 30% to 40% within the first year is more
realistic.
   Hong Kong sold approximately 110 million watches in 1990
valued at 16.3 billion Hong Kong dollars (US$2.09 billion).
But the value was down 1% on the year, following jumps of 20%
to 40% over much of the decade, industry and government data
show.
   And things aren't shaping up much better this year. While
sales were up 4% in the first half to HK$7.7 billion, Mr.
Chong said Middle East buyers started scrapping orders when
the Persian Gulf crisis began. Further cancellations are
likely from the U.S., Europe and Japan if the global economy
slows further.
   He added, however, that locally produced watches should be
less sensitive to a recession than other consumer goods
because they retail at a relatively modest price, generally
in the range of $15 to $100.
   Executives said the increased production would be
accounted for partly from foreign producers relocating
production to Hong Kong and southern China.
   A large number of them remain outside Hong Kong chiefly
because foreign origin labels are important to their
marketing strategy, according to Samson Sun, who has spent
more than 30 years in the industry and churns out more than a
half million watches a month in conjunction with Japan's
Citizen Watch Co. But the Hong Kong-southern China region
should draw many producers after the change goes into effect
because they could retain their existing point-of-origin
designations and still benefit from being close to their
local suppliers, as well as China's extremely low wages.
   Mr. Chong added that local producers will also benefit
from the changes by being able to produce more upscale
products whose faces bear the origin of their foreign
movements.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Analysts, Traders Predict Further Fall for Dollar,
   Citing Weak U.S. Economy, Chance of Rate Cuts
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST CANDA JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   The dollar is expected to falter further against most
major currencies this month and much of this autumn.
   Worsening U.S. economic fundamentals, which could lead to
lower U.S. interest rates when rates abroad are rising, will
erode support for the dollar, according to 10 economists and
traders surveyed by Dow Jones International News Service in
New York, Tokyo, Frankfurt and London.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, the crisis in the Persian Gulf hangs ominously
over the market, providing a constant source of volatility.
   The narrowing U.S. trade deficit and the emergence of
problems besetting other economies could provide an
undercurrent of strength for the dollar in the long run,
economists say. But they disagree on whether these factors
will start to turn the dollar around before winter.
   By the end of September, the dollar is expected to plumb
new depths against the German currency, sinking to 1.53
marks, according to those in the survey. The dollar's
all-time low against the mark, 1.5385 marks, was reached Aug.
27.
   Despite one bullish analyst's forecast that the dollar
will rise to 1.60 marks by the end of September and as high
as 1.75 marks by the end of November, the average forecast in
the survey calls for the dollar to weaken to 1.51 marks in
the next three months, with one estimate as low as 1.45
marks.
   The dollar also will weaken to 141 yen by the end of
September and to 140 yen by the end of November, according to
the average forecast. Forecasts stayed within the 140-yen to
143-yen range for the 30-day period but ranged from 131 yen
to 152 yen for the next 90 days. Predictions made about a
month ago called for the dollar to be at 1.6045 marks, 148.03
yen and 1.3598 Swiss francs at the end of August and for the
pound to stand at $1.8315.
   In late New York trading Friday, the dollar stood at
1.5755 marks, 143.79 yen and 1.3084 Swiss francs. The pound
was quoted at $1.8905. There was no trading in New York
yesterday because of the Labor Day holiday. Late yesterday in
London, the dollar was quoted at 1.5837 marks and 143.53 yen.
In Tokyo, meanwhile, the dollar finished Monday at 143.55
yen.
   In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday the dollar was quoted at
143.77 yen, down from 143.80 yen at the open but above the
143.53 yen in London late yesterday. New York markets were
closed for the Labor Day holiday yesterday.
   Since Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait, developments in
the Persian Gulf have overshadowed economic indicators as
well as events in Eastern Europe. But as the threat of
hostilities in the Mideast waxes and wanes, and participants
adjust positions accordingly, attention has begun to shift
back toward fundamentals.
   Most of the economists surveyed made their estimates on
the assumption the Mideast conflict will be resolved without
fighting. However, even a war there wouldn't necessarily
bring an economically shattering scenario, said Akira Suzuki,
chief manager of foreign exchange at Mitsubishi Trust &amp;
Banking Corp. in Tokyo.
   Tim Fox, treasury economist at Midland Bank PLC in London,
suggested that the dollar would shoot upward briefly if
hostilities were to erupt but would then continue its
downtrend.
   The dollar's recent emergence as a less attractive haven
in an international crisis than its Swiss or British
counterparts reflects the bearish view that prevailed before
the U.S.-Iraqi confrontation in the Gulf began. This
bearishness is expected to persist in the next few months.
   Central bank actions will continue driving currency
markets, traders and economists say. The dollar suffers from
U.S. interest rates that are relatively low in
inflation-adjusted terms, and it will probably become even
more unappealing as an investment currency, they say. An
early easing of rates by the U.S. Federal Reserve is seen as
likely, as are further rate increases by other central banks.
   Michael Rosenberg, international foreign exchange
economist with Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Group in New
York, said U.S. fiscal and monetary policy already is
shifting away from an anti-inflation stance and toward
recession avoidance, a move he said is undermining the U.S.'s
credibility as an inflation-fighter.
   Meanwhile, the Bank of Japan last week raised its discount
rate 0.75 percentage point to 6%. The increase in the rate
the central bank charges on loans to financial institutions
was the fifth in a series that began in May 1989, when the
rate was at a historic low of 2.5%.
   "The interest rate gap in favor of U.S. rates will
reverse," said Mr. Suzuki.
   One economist called 140 yen a firm support level for the
dollar and said he expects the dollar to begin edging higher
at the end of November.
   The mark's outlook depends largely on the state of the
German economy as the country completes the process of
reunification this fall, traders and economists said. Allan
Leslie of Discount Corp. in New York said the process "has to
be inflationary," that "it would be unbelievable for it not
to have a major inflationary impact."
   Rising inflation and a shrinking trade surplus are
expected to exert upward pressure on German interest rates.
Several economists predict an eventual rate rise by the
Bundesbank, although most said the central bank will try to
wait until after the all-German elections set for Dec. 2.
   Ernest Pullmann, chief foreign exchange trader and vice
president for Deutsche Girozentrale in Frankfurt, suggested
that despite the shrinking of the trade surplus and high cost
of unification, the Bundesbank won't raise rates before next
spring.
   Uncertainty in the Middle East will continue to provide
support to the pound, but as the threat of severe oil
shortages wanes, some of that strength could diminish.
   Sterling's status as a high-yielding currency could also
be undermined by widespread expectations that Britain will
cut its interest rates shortly after the pound enters the
exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System.
   When sterling will join the mechanism, however, remains
open to speculation, with predictions ranging from as soon as
next month to well into 1991 by one account.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday, gold for
current delivery dropped $4.40 to settle at $382.30 an ounce.
Estimated volume was a moderate four million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Tuesday, gold was quoted at
$387.75. an ounce.
   ---
   This article was reported by Audrey Choi in New York,
Nicholas Hastings in London, John Schmid in Frankfurt and
Douglas Appell and Christopher Hill in Tokyo.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bristol-Myers Set
   To Buy One-Third
   Of French Concern
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   BMY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., seeking a foothold
in Europe's over-the-counter drug market, agreed to acquire a
one-third stake in UPSA Group, a French non-prescription drug
concern.
   Bristol-Myers wouldn't disclose the price, but said the
transaction was an important strategic move that, among other
things, would make UPSA's distribution channels available to
the U.S. company's over-the-counter products. It also
reflects moves among other U.S. companies to increase their
presence in the European market in advance of 1992, when most
trade restrictions within Europe are scheduled to be lifted.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts estimated the immediate value of the transaction
at about $80 million, based on estimates that the entire
company would be valued at $250 million -- between one and
two times annual sales. While analysts generally applauded
the move, the financial impact on Bristol-Myers, at least in
the near term, will apparently be slight. Bristol-Myers
wouldn't comment on the estimates.
   Privately held UPSA, based in Agen, France, specializes in
effervescent pain relievers and vitamin products. It had net
income of 57 million French francs ($14 million) in 1988, on
sales of 936 million francs, the most recent results
available. Sales are expected to reach 1.2 billion francs in
1990, or about $230 million based on current exchange rates,
said Richard Vietor, drug industry analyst at Merrill Lynch &amp;
Co. Sales of similar products at Bristol-Myers exceeded $580
million last year; the company's total revenue was $9.19
billion.
   UPSA "is an important company in France with its
over-the-counter market," Mr. Vietor said. "But it's not like
it's some European powerhouse."
   Still, Bristol-Myers's over-the-counter product line,
dominated by Excedrin, Bufferin and Nuprin pain relievers, is
concentrated in the U.S. and Canada, where the entire market
for such products has been sluggish in recent years and
buffeted by intense competition. The European
over-the-counter market "is underdeveloped and holds very
strong promise," said Viren Mehta, analyst with Mehta &amp;
Isely, New York, which tracks the international
pharmaceutical industry. "UPSA has a very good marketing
presence {in Europe}. This is a very attractive combination."
   Under terms of the agreement, which is subject to approval
of French authorities, Bristol-Myers will acquire a 33.56%
stake of UPSA and name three directors on a seven-member
board. It also has an option to acquire the entire company at
an undisclosed time, also assuming French government
approval. Nicole Bru, president and chief executive officer
of UPSA, will continue in those positions.
   A Bristol-Myers spokesman said the agreement will enable
UPSA to develop world-wide distribution of its product line,
which consists chiefly of powdered, effervescent pain
relievers and vitamins that are dissolved in water.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   August Farm Prices
   On Average Fell
   1.3% From July
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Average farm prices in August fell 1.3% from
July, as an across-the-board slump in grain prices more than
offset record high prices for beef cattle and milk, the
Agriculture Department said.
   Still, average prices received by the nation's farmers
last month were 3.4% higher than in August 1989, the
department said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wheat prices dropped 20 cents to $2.59 a bushel in August,
approaching the lows of mid-1987, and rice prices slipped 19
cents to $6.76 a hundredweight. The decreases reflect the
prospect of bumper crops of spring wheat and rice this fall,
as well as the price-depressing effects of the enormous
winter wheat crop earlier this summer and growing wheat
stockpiles.
   The loss of Iraq as a major market for U.S. commodities
also has hurt food-grain prices, according to agricultural
analysts. Before the Persian Gulf crisis, Iraq had been the
largest overseas buyer of U.S. rice and it was an important
buyer of U.S. wheat, purchasing 1.3 million metric tons last
year. A metric ton is equal to about 2,204.62 pounds.
   The slide in feed-grain prices last month was almost as
steep as the drop in food-grain prices, the department said.
Corn prices averaged $2.46 a bushel, down 16 cents from July,
and barley prices averaged $2.10 a bushel, down six cents.
Sorghum grain fell 29 cents last month to $4.15 a
hundredweight, the department said. Department analysts have
forecast a 1990 corn harvest of 7.85 billion bushels, up 4%
from last year.
   Beef cattle prices climbed $1.80 last month to a record
$75.40 a hundredweight, the department said. The previous
record was $74.60, set in April 1990. Cow prices averaged
$54.10 a hundredweight in August, up $1.30 from the previous
month, and steers and heifers averaged $78.80, up $2.20. Calf
prices jumped $2 to $98.50 a hundredweight.
   The surge in cattle prices is "the culmination of
relatively tight supplies and strong demand during first half
of 1990," said Charles Lambert, economist for the
Denver-based National Cattlemen's Association. The industry
also views the record as another sign that beef is gaining in
consumer acceptance, after years of losing ground to poultry.
The industry has lowered the fat content of beef by putting
out "a closer-trimmed product," Mr. Lambert said.
   Milk industry analysts were somewhat taken aback last
month, as the average milk price jumped 30 cents to $14.40 a
hundredweight, a record for August, the department said. The
previous high was $13.50, set in August 1981. At $14.40, milk
was $1.20 higher than a year earlier.
   "We were surprised," said James Barr, chief executive
officer of the National Milk Producers Federation, mostly
because the U.S. hasn't been exporting any powdered milk
lately and milk production has been growing steadily in
recent months. It was up 5% in July from a year earlier. But
unusually strong demand -- particularly for milk and cheese
-- continues to drive raw milk prices up, he said.
   Meanwhile, hog prices declined sharply, the department
said. Hogs averaged $56 a hundredweight, down $4.80 from
July. Barrows and gilts averaged $56.90, down $5.30, and sows
averaged $48.80, up $1.30.
   Vegetable prices rose 6.8% in August, and fruit prices,
led by grapefruit, dropped 11%, the department said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ivaco Sets Pact on Units' Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   U.BTR IVA.A
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Ivaco Inc., a steel products concern, said it
definitively agreed to sell its two Niagara Lockport
Industries units, which make specialty fabrics for the
paper-making industry at five plants in the U.S. and Canada,
to BTR PLC of Britain for 85 million Canadian dollars (US$74
million).
   BTR also will assume Niagara Lockport debt of about C$45
million. Ivaco said closing of the sale is conditioned on
obtaining the approval of Canadian competition authorities by
Nov. 30. Ivaco said the sale has already been approved by
U.S. antitrust authorities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Outer-Space Tunes
   Make Earth Debut
   In a Bar in Peoria
   ---
   Pianist-Singer Claims Aliens
   Taught Her Their Music;
   Do They Get Royalties?
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   PEORIA, Ill. -- Connie Cook tickles her electric piano
keys and strives to sing above the happy-hour chaos in
O'Leary's, a singles bar. She fails. Her recital, preceded by
a lingerie show and an Elvis Presley impersonator, is tuned
out by most of the 100 or so patrons while a televised
Chicago Cubs game drones on.
   This crowd couldn't hear a message sent by aliens from
outer space -- and that, Ms. Cook asserts, is precisely what
her music is. In 1981, she says, she saw an undentified
flying object whose passengers later entered her
consciousness and inspired the music.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What kind of music do aliens like? No punk or heavy metal,
thanks, but instead a dreamy sort of jazz and soft-rock
fusion with lyrics -- translated from the lingo of the
Pleiades star cluster where the aliens claim to hail from --
like this:
                                                                                                       

   "By and by we learn to fly
   Within each other's heart.
   Space and time the ancient rhyme
   Is overcome in our heart."
                                                                                                       

   Solid platinum it isn't. The record industry is beating no
path to Ms. Cook's door. But some critics, musicologists and
record-industry people who have listened to her tapes find
her music intriguing. "I don't know who her collaborators
are, but there's something other-worldly about her songs,"
says David Wild, a senior writer at Rolling Stone magazine.
   "She's using some notes that seem to come from somewhere
else; a few don't even translate to music paper," says Jim
Van Petten, a Chicago record producer and musicologist.
"Technically, they don't exist," he says -- on this planet,
at least. Ms. Cook has had her pianos tuned to produce notes
that sound vaguely Far Eastern, or even from beyond.
   Ms. Cook says her first close encounter came late one
night in November 1981, when a gleaming, globe-shaped craft
hovered silently outside her bedroom window for about 90
minutes. Mesmerized, she returned to bed when it left. Soon
after, she dreamed of seeing four shiny people with
indistinct features "sort of standing in the sky." She later
dreamed the four beings were at her bedside, stroking her
hands and predicting a time of "good will for the earth's
peoples." They explained they were appearing in human form so
as not to frighten her.
   A month later, inspired telepathically, sometimes in
dreams, she began compulsively composing music, she says.
Previously without a piano, she now has two. "Before that I
couldn't play `Chopsticks,' and I still can't. But sometimes
music just flows out of me, and I write it down."
   Are there musical Martians? Virtuosos on Venus? Orchestras
beyond Orion? Will little green men someday demand to be
taken to our band leader?
   Military and aerospace officials doubt it, but concede
they're not really trying to detect music from the spheres.
"We don't even take reports anymore, even if you said a
flying saucer just landed in your yard," says Capt. Sigmund
Adams of the Air Force Readiness Support Branch. After
chasing down 12,618 reports of UFOs between 1948 and 1969,
the Readiness Support Branch has packed it in -- even though
701 sightings remain unexplained by ordinary phenomena.
   "Budget restraints keep us from listening" for signals
from space, says Michael Klein, project manager of the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Search for
Extraterrestrial Intelligence. "NASA is not at this time
carrying out a search, even though people think we are."
   NASA's two unmanned Voyager missions, launched in 1977,
carry music recordings to the outer edges of the galaxy, four
billion miles away, in case anybody out there wants to
listen. Songs on the gold-plated albums aboard include Chuck
Berry's "Johnny B. Goode," the "Pigmy Girl's Initiation Song"
from Zaire and a Mexican mariachi melody.
   Any beings who track that music to Earth should steer
clear of Peoria's environs, however, says Ms. Cook's mother,
Genevieve Cook, a retired office worker. She says aliens just
wouldn't play in Peoria. "The yahoos around here would blast
away with their shotguns at anything that moved if they
thought aliens were out there," she says.
   Except for her space music thing, Connie Cook is Ms.
Middle America: a 42-year-old divorced housewife raising a
sixth-grader. Pretty and plump, she favors print dresses and
strawberry cheesecake. Her father was a postman. She twirled
the baton in high school, where she banged a snare drum in
the band. After eight piano lessons from a teacher who rapped
her knuckles for frequent mistakes, she quit music until her
strange inspiration nine years ago.
   "I believe too much in science and religion to swallow
UFOs, so I would think Connie's pulling something if I didn't
see her play," says her sister, Carolyn Cook. "Those just
aren't her fingers on the keys."
   But astronomers such as Carl Sagan don't want to hear it.
"Grandma Moses took up painting at about 70, and she didn't
see aliens," he says.
   Ms. Cook sings some of her alien songs to children in
Sunday school at Unity Church of Peoria. Says the Rev. Eddie
Edwards, "Connie is a sincere and stable person who has had
some kind of an experience. I don't know what."
   Jon Engberg, associate director of academic affairs at the
University of Rochester's Eastman School of Music, has
listened to a Cook tape supplied by a reporter. "I think she
has had some serious musical training," he says. Another tape
listener, Wahaba Heartsun, publisher of Heartsong Review, a
new-age music magazine, says Ms. Cook's music "is moving and
inspired, with a very sweet quality of innocence."
   So why aren't record companies swooping to sign her up?
One reason is given by a spokesman for Narada Productions
Inc., a Milwaukee record company. He says too much popular
music is already accused of being inspired by devil worship
or other cults. "Any notion that the company is selling music
inspired by UFOs would be too controversial."
   Ms. Cook says she wants to share the aliens' music, not
profit from it. That may be a good thing, too, because she
might find it hard to comply with U.S. copyright law, which
requires that income from music be split between composers
and inspirational collaborators. But if Ms. Cook ever has a
hit, says Todd Brabec, spokesman for the American Society of
Composers, Authors &amp; Publishers, "We would help the aliens
get paid, like anyone else. If we have their address." The
only one Ms. Cook has is the Pleiades star cluster -- with no
ZIP code yet.
   If history is any guide, Ms. Cook has some chance of
landing in the top 40. After all, Sheb Wooley made it to No.
1 with "The Purple People Eater" in 1958, the Ran-Dells to
No. 16 with "Martian Hop" in 1963, and the Five Blobs to No.
33 with "The Blob" in 1958. None of these performers had the
benefit of inspiration from outer space. As far as is known.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Brazil Reaches
   Economic-Reform
   Pact With IMF
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Brazil agreed to an economic-adjustment
program with the International Monetary Fund, but a few
details haven't been determined, officials said, including
the exact amount of money the multilateral agency will lend.
   These details should be settled soon, after IMF Managing
Director Michel Camdessus has reviewed the economic program
that Brazil is proposing to the fund, the officials said.
Brazilian Economy Minister Zelia Cardoso de Mello then is
expected to sign a letter to the fund setting out the
program, and the IMF in turn would ratify an agreement with
that country, including substantial loans. Ms. Cardoso said
yesterday she hoped to sign the letter of intent by the end
of the week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The negotiations with the IMF come at a time of growing
speculation in Brazil that the government will soon unveil a
new temporary wage-and-price freeze to avoid a resurgence of
inflation and a deepening of an incipient recession touched
off by the tough anti-inflation plan enforced by President
Fernando Collor de Mello in March. Mr. Collor has recently
suggested that employers and unions join together in a pact
to keep wages and prices under control.
   Brazil's IMF quota -- the reserves it subscribes to the
fund as a member of the agency -- totals just over $2
billion. Under IMF rules, as part of a so-called standby
agreement, Brazil can borrow between 40% and 90% of this
amount, or between $800 million and $1.8 billion. Brazil is
widely expected to borrow about $1.5 billion from the IMF.
   Standby agreements are meant to help IMF member nations
through temporary balance-of-payments difficulties. Brazil's
last standby agreement, which expired at the end of February
after 18 months, totaled about $1.3 billion at then
prevailing exchange rates.
   The amount of money Brazil can borrow from the IMF is
critical to its coming talks with commercial bank creditors.
The more IMF cash available, the less money recalcitrant
commercial banks will have to provide. Brazil is expected to
start negotiating with its main commercial bank creditors
this fall, probably in October, after it completes
negotiations with its foreign government creditors.
   The commercial bank talks are expected to be difficult,
particularly because of the substantial interest-payment
arrears Brazil has built up on its $70 billion of
medium-term, foreign commercial-bank debt. Those arrears,
which have been accumulating since July of last year, are
estimated to total $8 billion. Altogether, Brazil has about
$114 billion of gross foreign obligations.
   An IMF team just returned to Washington from Brazil.
According to wire service reports, Thomas Reichmann, who led
the IMF group, said in Brazil that he is "satisfied and
impressed" with the government's current economic program,
which includes "important and radical measures" that have "a
good chance of succeeding."
   President Collor's anti-inflation plan includes an
18-month freeze on about half the money circulating in the
Brazilian economy, elimination of subsidies, tight monetary
policies and reduced trade barriers.
   ---
   Thomas Kamm in Rio de Janeiro contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Fidelity
   And EDS Set
   Software Accord
   ---
   GM Unit Will Consolidate
   Bank's Systems in Pact
   Valued at $450 Million
   ----
   By Kathryn Graven
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   FFB GM GME
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAWRENCEVILLE, N.J. -- First Fidelity Bancorp., in a move
that other large banks may follow, said it contracted with
Electronic Data Systems to consolidate the company's software
systems and data center operations.
   The 10-year contract -- valued at about $450 million -- is
believed to be the largest so-called outsourcing agreement by
a U.S. commercial bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For First Fidelity, one of the largest banks in the U.S.
with $29.8 billion in assets and 500 offices in New Jersey
and eastern Pennsylvania, the arrangement is aimed at
consolidating the software systems faster than the bank could
have done on its own. As a result, the bank will benefit
sooner from the consolidation, which First Fidelity expects
could trim $50 million a year from expenses.
   "We have an ambitious timetable in which to achieve total
integration and consolidation of all the company's product
and service lines," said Anthony P. Terracciano, the bank's
chairman and chief executive officer in a statement.
   Like many large banks, First Fidelity has grown in the
past decade through various mergers. Each acquisition added a
new set of slightly different services and back office
operations to the firm. Integrating the various operations
has proven to be quite tricky for many banks.
   Under the agreement with Dallas-based EDS, First Fidelity
wants to consolidate about 250 of the bank's software systems
into about 60 systems over 18 months. EDS, a unit of General
Motors Corp., is also charged with merging the bank's data
centers in New Brunswick, N.J., and Philadelphia into a
single location within six months. After that, EDS will
manage the operations and keep the bank's data center staff
of 300 on its payroll.
   Still, cost-cutting looms high on First Fidelity's list of
objectives. Officials point out that the EDS agreement will
not mean any additional costs to the company because the $450
million contract will displace the bank's internal costs of
running consolidated data operations on its own over the 10
years. The bank is currently in the throes of a program
designed to reduce operating expenses by $115 million
annually. The savings from consolidating software systems
would be on top of that.
   After studying numerous proposals, bank officials said
they awarded the contract to EDS because of the firm's
experience in merging systems quickly with minimal risk of
disruption to customers. EDS, an information technology
company, had revenue of $5.5 billion in 1989.
   Analysts said First Fidelity's decision to go to outside
sources to handle data operations management could have
important strategic considerations for the banking industry.
"Broadly, we see this as a powerful trend that will be
beneficial to banks and a small number of vendors such as
EDS," said Ladd Willis, managing vice president at First
Manhattan Consulting Group, a New York firm specializing in
management consulting to financial institutions. "It's
possible that First Fidelity could emerge as one of the most
profitable banks in the country."
   The issue of whether banks should use outside sources to
handle systems integrations and manage data processing
centers is a hot topic in the banking industry these days.
Many small banks, and some large financial institutions such
as Hibernia National Bank, New Orleans, and Meritor Financial
Group, Philadelphia, have pushed ahead with outsourcing
agreements. But large super-regional banks have been
reluctant to do so, fearing a loss of control of their
technology.
   First Fidelity officials say that won't be a problem with
EDS because the deal is designed to give the bank control
over software development and management, while leaving
hardware in the hands of EDS.
   In New York Stock Exchange trading Friday, First Fidelity
closed at $13.875, up 37.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Swiss GDP Slowed in 2nd Period
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   ZURICH -- Switzerland's gross domestic product slowed in
the second quarter, but the economy still grew at a
surprisingly strong rate, according to the Federal Office for
Economic Questions.
   GDP grew at a real annualized rate of 1.6% from the first
quarter, and 3.0% from the 1989 second quarter, the office
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman described the slowdown as "not very strong"
and said growth was still "surprisingly good." However, in
the second half, GDP growth is forecast to slow to an
annualized rate of 1%, reflecting what is expected to be a
stagnating construction sector.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Increase in Production of Alaskan Oil
   Will Yield 226,000 More Barrels a Day
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA TAXES LATAM MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Increased oil production in Alaska will soon
yield an additional 226,000 barrels a day -- far more than
had been anticipated -- to help offset the losses of Iraqi
and Kuwaiti crude, the Energy Department said.
   Two weeks ago, the department predicted the additional
production could soon increase output 50,000 barrels a day,
and as many as 140,000 barrels a day in six months. A
department spokesman said oil companies operating in Alaska
have increased their estimate of additional amounts that can
be produced.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Alaskan output, along with increased output from Texas
and from the Naval Petroleum Reserve, will give the nation an
additional 251,000 to 261,000 barrels a day in the fourth
quarter. That brings output close to the department's goal of
boosting domestic production 270,000 to 320,000 barrels by
year end.
   The new estimates from Alaska, however, come as the
department said that a sizable chunk of output it had
expected to be available by year end won't be available until
late spring at the earliest. In an interview, Stephen
Wakefield, the department's general counsel, said he was
being "fairly optimistic" in predicting that the Port
Arguello project off the California coast could start pumping
25,000 barrels a day by late spring or early summer.
   That assessment is gloomier than the one offered by Energy
Secretary James Watkins last month, when the department
announced plans to mediate an environmental dispute that is
holding up the production.
   Mr. Watkins said then he hoped three offshore oil
platforms could be producing 75,000 barrels a day by year
end. Mr. Wakefield, however, said a visit to California had
given him a greater "sense of realism" about the project,
which is caught up in a controversy over whether tankers or
pipelines should move the oil to refineries 130 miles down
the coast. Bringing production to as much as 75,000 to 90,000
barrels a day would take several more months, he said.
   Mr. Wakefield also said the loss of Kuwaiti imports and
the different mix of crude shipments to the U.S. since the
Iraqi invasion is making it tough for domestic refiners to
meet the nation's needs for jet fuel and other refined
products. He said the U.S. has lost a significant amount of
such products from Kuwait at the same time that the military
airlift to Saudi Arabia has required great quantities of jet
fuel.
   In addition, much of the additional crude that Venezuela
is providing to offset the loss of Kuwaiti shipments is
so-called heavy crude, which many U.S. refiners can't use.
Oil industry executives and oil markets have grown
increasingly concerned about tight supplies of refined
products.
   On another matter, Mr. Wakefield said a tax credit to
encourage efforts to recover hard-to-get oil from existing
fields is "high on our list of things to consider. We're
looking carefully at it." He said the White House economic
policy council will be considering various conservation and
production-enhancement measures this week.
   He said the department is also "looking into encouraging"
the Forest Service to speed up its consideration of proposed
pipeline projects that would bring natural gas into
California to use in projects designed to recover hard-to-get
oil. He also said it would be helpful if the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission could make a decision as soon as
possible on the proposed Iroquois gas pipeline. That pipeline
is supposed bring Canadian natural gas to the northeast U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Atlantic Richfield Unit
   Wins Defense Contract
   Totaling $390.4 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   ARC MD OTRKB GE BA ITT ML ECC GM GMH
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Arco Products Co., a unit of Atlantic
Richfield Co., received a $390.4 million Defense Logistics
Agency contract for jet fuel.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   McDonnell Douglas Corp. was awarded $156.2 million in
contracts for Army helicopters and Air Force aircraft
missiles and logistic support.
                                                                                                       

   Oshkosh Truck Corp. won a $57 million Army contract for
heavy vehicles.
                                                                                                       

   General Electric Co. was issued a $44.7 million Air Force
contract for missile parts and Army vehicle trainers.
                                                                                                       

   Boeing Co. got a $22.3 million Air Force contract for
airborne command post improvements.
                                                                                                       

   ITT Corp. received a $21.7 million Army contract for
communications equipment.
                                                                                                       

   Martin Marietta Corp. won $19.3 million in Air Force
contracts for navigation equipment and missile rocket motor
storage.
                                                                                                       

   United Telecontrol Electronics Inc. was awarded a $19.2
million Air Force contract for missile rail launchers.
                                                                                                       

   ESL Inc. received an $18.2 million Army contract for
aircraft electronics.
                                                                                                       

   ECC International Corp. received a $14.2 million Air Force
contract for maintenance training devices.
                                                                                                       

   Hughes Aircraft Co., a unit of General Motors Corp.,
received a $13.9 million Air Force contract for missile rail
launchers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   The Making
   Of a Presidential Myth
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Reporting on the July retirement of Associate Justice
William J. Brennan Jr., several news organizations used a
pungent one-liner attributed to President Eisenhower to the
effect that he had made two mistakes as president, and both
sat on the Supreme Court, in reference to Earl Warren and Mr.
Brennan. Eisenhower probably never made the statement.
   The source of this error may likely be traced to Elmo
Richardson's 1979 book "The Presidency of Dwight D.
Eisenhower." The author discusses a conversation Eisenhower
had with Republican leader Ralph Cake about the appointment
of Warren. Mr. Richardson's parenthetical phrase -- "It's one
of the two biggest mistakes I made in my administration" --
is not a quotation, nor does he suggest that Eisenhower ever
said it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Then in 1985 Henry J. Abraham, a professor at the
University of Virginia, wrote in the introduction to
"Justices and Presidents": "After having made what he would
later categorize as `my two biggest mistakes -- and they are
both on the Supreme Court,' President Eisenhower insisted on
being fully "au courant" of the characteristics and
qualifications-in-his-image of the other three appointments
fate permitted him." He footnoted Mr. Richardson quoting Mr.
Cake, thus appropriating a "joke" about presidents rather
than a statement by Eisenhower. Next, Elder Witt of
Congressional Quarterly placed the quotation in the standard
reference work, Guide to the U.S. Supreme Court, footnoting
Mr. Abraham.
   Most readers rely on the accuracy of a historian's
footnotes, and the old joke gained new life as an actual
Eisenhower statement -- and American folklore. But perhaps
Eisenhower did include the appointment of Mr. Brennan when he
told Mr. Cake he had made "two" big mistakes. But it doesn't
look that way.
   Fred Greenstein of Princeton University, an expert on
Eisenhower and the modern presidency, has never found the
comment in any of Eisenhower's written works. Moreover, in
1961, Eisenhower told William Ewald, a research assistant for
his memoirs, "Eisenhower the President," that "the two worst
appointments I ever made came out of recommendations from the
Justice Department -- that fellow who headed the Antitrust
Division, Bicks, and Earl Warren."
   Furthermore, when Mr. Cake asked what the other big
mistake was, Eisenhower responded sharply, "None of your
business]" Finally, Herb Pankratz of the Eisenhower Library's
Oral History project has not discovered the quotation in any
interview.
   Surely Justice Brennan did not turn out to be the sort of
justice Eisenhower had hoped to appoint. Indeed, Warren
himself reports in his memoirs that Eisenhower told him that
he was "disappointed in Justice Brennan and me." In
Eisenhower's own memoirs, the former president takes pains to
emphasize that he knew very little about William Brennan
before appointing him, and relied on his advisers for the
selection. Yet to say that Eisenhower's self-professed
"worst" mistake was choosing Mr. Brennan is not supported by
the record.
   Alyssa Sepinwall
   Pine Brook, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japanese Vehicle Sales
   Rose by 12% in August
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN TOYOY NSANY J.MZD J.MOT HMC
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Sales of cars, trucks and buses in Japan climbed
12% in August from a year earlier to 356,312 units, a record
for the month, the Japan Automobile Dealers' Association
said.
   Car sales rose 10% to 252,033 units. Sales of medium-size
cars soared 46% to 25,207 units, maintaining a sharp upward
trend that officials said has resulted in part from a growing
preference among the Japanese for upscale models. Small-car
sales showed a 7.1% gain from the previous year, totaling
226,826 units.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Truck sales rose 15% to 102,532 units, the highest on
record for the month. Bus sales grew 18% from the previous
year to 1,747 units.
   Most car makers registered considerable growth in August
sales. Toyota Motor Corp., Japan's biggest car maker, sold
141,872 cars, trucks and buses, up 20% from a year earlier.
Sales by Nissan Motor Co., the second biggest manufacturer,
rose 5.1% to 82,245 units. Mazda Motor Corp. reported sales
of 31,019 units, an 11% gain. Sales by Mitsubishi Motors
Corp. jumped 19% to 26,983 units.
   On the other hand, Honda Motor Co. posted a 3.8% drop,
with sales totaling 27,699 units. Honda officials said the
decline was a result of brisk sales the previous year on the
introduction of a popular new model.
   Separately, Japan's exports of cars, trucks and buses rose
2.9% in July from a year earlier to 489,804 units because of
growing car shipments, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers'
Association reported.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Real-Estate Report Card
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   As a commercial real-estate broker specializing in tenant
representation, I was interested in "To Buy or Not to Buy" in
your Real Estate report (special section, Aug. 10).
   But why use the example of a $300,000 house renting for
$1,500 a month when such a case rarely occurs in real life?
It rarely occurs because most people do not rent houses at
less than the cost of ownership, or even debt service. In
this flawed example, a 25% equity in this $300,000 house with
a 10% 30-year mortgage would create a monthly payment of
$1,975. Setting rent at $1,500 a month yields a monthly cash
flow of minus $475. Not to mention wounded hot-water heaters,
taxes, insurance and loss of interest on the $75,000 equity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If home buyers truly looked at the investment side of home
ownership, their profit expectations would probably have
sobered over the past couple of years. The reality is home
ownership provides a sense of achievement and status, much
like a "signature office building" for a business owner. The
pride of ownership far exceeds the economic argument. But
unlike quality homes, there is an expanding, long-term supply
of commercial buildings across the country keeping rental
rates in check and tenant-flavored options available.
   Robert H. Van Dyke
   Van Dyke Corporate Real Estate Services
   Huntsville, Ala.
   ---
   Your Real Estate report was irresponsible. To compare the
price of a single-family house in Princeton, N.J., to the
average pay of a factory worker is akin to comparing the
price of a Rolls-Royce to the salary of an average worker.
The areas discussed are predominantly upper-class
neighborhoods that have always been beyond the reach of the
average factory worker.
   Second, your recommendation that renting is preferable to
purchasing is both erroneous and damaging to a large majority
of your readership. While it is true that people located in
an area for only a few years may benefit from renting, it is
also true that there is no 10-year period in recent history
that does not demonstrate clearly the financial value of
ownership. Because of the tax benefits and equity buildup of
ownership, it is nearly a necessity for Americans to purchase
real estate in order to accumulate any substantial net worth.
   Third, while real-estate values have no doubt declined in
recent months in the Northeast there is no reason to believe
that these declines are a long-term trend. The Northeast
remains a center of economic development; history proves that
real estate always proves a secure investment in the long
run. Like any other investment instrument the real-estate
market is subject to corrections and downswings; to label
these corrections as the end of real estate as an investment
vehicle is as senseless as dismantling the stock market after
Black Monday.
   As a realtor and mortgage banker I am constantly
frustrated by the fact that much of our real estate is sold
to foreigners who are intelligent enough to have the
foresight to ignore doom sayers such as yourselves. If there
is any American who doubts the wisdom of owning property, let
him ask his parents where they would be today had they not
purchased their own home.
   Bob Strager
   Somerset, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Vestron Inc. Reports
   Narrower Loss, Misses
   Debenture Payments
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VV
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
EARNINGS (ERN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- Vestron Inc. reported a narrower loss
for the second quarter and said it wasn't able to make
interest payments due last Saturday on certain debentures.
   The video distributor and movie maker, which has agreed to
be acquired by Live Entertainment Inc., reported its loss
shrank to $12.4 million, or 33 cents a share, from $65
million, or $1.73 a share, in the year-earlier period.
Revenue dropped 36% to $33.9 million from $52.7 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Vestron also reported that because of insufficient funds
and other conditions in its credit facility with Chemical
Banking Corp., its agent, it couldn't meet interest payments
on its 9% convertible debentures due 2011.
   The company said it doesn't expect to satisfy conditions
that will allow it to make interest payments "in the
foreseeable future." Vestron added that its banks may at any
time issue a notice of default, which would prohibit interest
payments for 120 days.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Vestron closed at 31.25 cents, down 9.375 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WHX
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   WHEELING, W.VA. -- Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp. said it
will raise prices for some tin mill products 5.5%, effective
Oct. 1. The company said it is following a price increase
announced by several other producers.
   The price for electrolytic tinplate, tin free steel and
black plate will be increased 5.5%, as will basis weight
extras and tin coating extras, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The price schedule for tin coated sheet won't change, but
the company said it will reduce competitive allowances $2 a
hundred pounds.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Needed: More Gas
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Despite the encouraging opinion of S. Fred Singer
(editorial page, Aug. 8) that the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve's 600 million gallons is not as effective as private
reserves of oil in a free market, he fails to consider that
an increased supply of natural gas in the Northeast would be
an important element affecting our energy dependency on OPEC
oil.
   For example, Canadian gas from the Iroquois pipeline would
equal the equivalent of 5% of the oil stored in the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve. By displacing the energy equivalent of
more than 30 million barrels of oil annually, the Iroquois
pipeline would help offset the supply imbalance created by
the embargo. Unfortunately, just one week before Iraq invaded
Kuwait, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)
voted, after four years of exhaustive hearings and
overwhelmingly favorable evidence, to delay approval of the
Iroquois pipeline in favor of additional hearings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Clearly, FERC's decision could not have come at a worse
time. The Iraqi crisis underscores the Northeast's critical
need for reliable, secure supplies of energy that the
pipeline will deliver. Regardless of whether the government
sells oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, the fact is,
as long as we depend on imported oil, we will be hostage to
hostile regimes and uncertain supplies.
   William V. Federici
   Corporate Communications
   Brooklyn Union Gas
   Brooklyn, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tisch Family Boosts Bank Holdings,
   But Some Say Move May Be Premature
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   BBNK CBK EQK LTR BKB FIIA CMB CHL CBS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
CENTRAL U.S. BANKS (BAC)
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The multibillionnaire Tisch family, taking
advantage of the massacre in bank stocks, is pouring more
money into shares of banking companies.
   A Tisch family company, FLF Associates, disclosed Friday
that it recently acquired 9.5% of BayBanks Inc., 5.6% of
Continental Bank Corp. and 6.8% of Equimark Corp. All three
stocks jumped on the news, but FLF said it bought the stocks
"for investment reasons," indicating it doesn't have takeover
intentions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These investments follow a Tisch foray last December into
Bank of Boston stock, which has since lost half its value.
Although members of the Tisch family don't always make good
investment calls, they made their fortune -- estimated at
more than $2 billion -- by buying when others were selling.
   "The trick is to buy stocks when they're trading like they
have cancer," says someone close to Thomas Tisch, who runs
FLF, a pool of money for Thomas and three brothers who are
the sons of CBS Inc.'s chief Laurence Tisch.
   At FLF, Thomas Tisch declines to comment. He is said to be
aware that he started investing in banks too soon but
believes that he has the luxury of waiting out the storm. He
didn't buy bank stocks with borrowed funds, which can be
risky. And he's apparently willing to wait several years for
his bets to pay off.
   In the investment world, any move by the Tisch family is
closely watched. They built their fortune initially through
resorts and hotels, then bought and sold Loews Theatres Inc.
Later they diversified into tobacco, insurance, hotels and
Bulova Watch, now under the umbrella of Loews Corp. In 1986,
Laurence Tisch gained control of CBS after buying only 25% of
the stock.
   However, the Tisch family missed most of the 1980s bull
market in stocks. And now, some investor say, owning bank
stocks before the industry's travails are over could be
hair-raising. "I think the Tisches are too early," says New
York money manager Martin Sosnoff of Atalanta/Sosnoff
Capital.
   He thinks bank stocks could be rocky for the next year as
banks own up to more big losses on risky corporate and real
estate loans and credit cards. Like many people, he thinks
some banks will be forced to cut their dividends to buttress
their capital.
   In addition to the three bank holdings disclosed Friday,
FLF owns almost 9% of Bank of Boston and a stake in First
Interstate Iowa, and is said to own shares in other banks as
well. Friday's filings were made by a group including FLF --
which stands for Four Lucky Fellows -- as well as Laurence
and his brother, Preston Tisch.
   There has been speculation that Loews Corp., the Tisch
flagship company, also has been investing heavily in banks
such as Chase Manhattan Corp. Some people close to the Tisch
family estimate that the combined bank holdings in FLF and
Loews now are approaching $500 million, with big and small
stakes in 10 or more regional and money center concerns.
   At CBS, Mr. Tisch says those numbers sound "a bit
exaggerated." He referred all questions to his sons, saying,
"I don't get involved too much in bank investments. I spend
my time at CBS," though nobody believes he has taken his eye
off the ball at FLF and Loews. Mr. Tisch's sons declined to
comment.
   So far, FLF hasn't fared well with its bank shares. The
Bank of Boston stake that FLF started building last December
-- representing an investment of more than $100 million --
now is valued at roughly half that.
   Meanwhile, in the portfolios of Loews's insurance
companies, an additional $150 million of common shares of
financial concerns held since last year is apparently in the
red, too. These older holdings are said to include a big
block of Chemical Banking, bought in the low 30s. In New York
Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, Chemical was at
$21.625 a share, up 50 cents.
   However, the Tisch family doesn't appear to be troubled by
such reversals. They have enormous cash resources and often
hold investments for many years. In recent years, they made
bets that proved to be prescient on oil tankers and drilling
rigs.
   Shares of Loews and its 25%-owned CBS have fallen in the
past year, but Wall Street professionals believe that Mr.
Tisch will one day sell all or part of those companies at a
big profit.
   Meanwhile, many traders have made a lot of money betting
against bank stocks. This year the bank stocks in the Dow
Jones Equity Market Index have fallen 30%. Bank of Boston,
which FLF mostly bought last December at around $20, closed
Friday at $8.75 a share, up 50 cents. (FLF acquired a smaller
stake in August at about $10 a share.) Some traders believe
New England bank stocks have farther to fall because of the
region's weak real estate markets.
   Marc Perkins of Perkins Smith in Florida, an analyst and
money manager who advises Thomas Tisch on some of his bank
investments, believes that such strong New England banks as
BayBanks and Bank of Boston will survive their problems with
their capital intact. In two or three years, he predicts,
Bank of Boston stock will have more than tripled, to about
30.
   Mr. Perkins expects bank stocks to suffer for another
year. Currently, he thinks some debt securities issued by
banks offer better value than common shares; for instance, he
and his clients own Bank of Boston floating-rate notes,
yielding about 18%. But he believes that stock-market
investors generally are misreading the problems in the
banking industry. Many banks were far more troubled during
the 1974 recession than they are now, he says, yet they
managed to turn themselves around.
   Banks stocks "are starting to look very cheap," he says.
"They're trading like they were going out of business."
   Equimark, which has traded as high as $12.625 in the past
year, closed Friday at $5.625, up $1. The Friday filings show
the Tisches hold 804,700 Equimark shares, including 425,500
purchased in July and August at $3.375 to $5.625 apiece.
   Michael Jehle, Equimark's chief financial officer, said
that the Tisches have been Equimark shareholders for some
time before this filing, and that they call periodically to
ask about the company's financial condition. The Pittsburgh
bank holding company, reeling from bad real estate and
consumer credit loans, had a first-half loss of $45.2 million
before one-time gains. Federal regulators now are
investigating expenses Equimark charged the government while
managing an insolvent Texas bank. Equimark's agreement to
acquire that bank, National Bancshares Corp. of Texas,
eventually collapsed, prompting Equimark to lay off several
top executives and two dozen senior and midlevel managers.
   In Boston, Baybanks declined to comment. Tisch holdings
were listed as 1,520,000 shares, including 1,346,000 bought
in the last two months for $11.25 to $16 apiece. The stock
closed Friday at $13.50, up 75 cents. The Tisches said they
may seek Federal Reserve Board approval to acquire additional
shares.
   At Continental Bank, the Tisch group said it holds
2,804,600 shares, including 1,036,500 bought Aug. 1 to Aug.
23 for $8.75 to $11.75 each. The stock rose 75 cents Friday,
to $10.875.
   A Continental Bank spokesman said Friday: "We're
delighted" by the Tisches' investment. "We were aware of
their interest." He wouldn't elaborate.
   It's understood, however, that the Tisches were part of a
group including some Continental Bank managers who tried to
buy the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.'s remaining 26% stake
in the company last June. The FDIC declined the bid of around
$15 a share. The FDIC rebuffed a separate proposal last fall
to let Continental sell the stake in a public offering when
the shares were around $20. In the past 12 months, the stock
has traded as high as $26.625.
   Continental is trading at less than half its book value of
about $23 a share. On an operating basis, Continental
essentially broke even in the second quarter, but it posted a
net loss of $56.7 million after a big charge for 900 layoffs.
Further cost cutting may be required. Continental has been
highly dependent on leveraged buy-outs and other financings
that have slowed in recent months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   New England's Riley
   Returns to Prudential
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
FULL LINE INSURANCE (INF)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- New England Mutual Life Insurance Co. said
Robert Riley, who was hired three months ago to head the
Loomis, Sayles &amp; Co. unit, is returning to Prudential
Insurance Co. of America, based in Newark, N.J.
   Donald R. Shepherd, a Loomis Sayles executive vice
president, will succeed Mr. Riley as the unit's president and
chief executive officer. Mr. Shepherd, 53 years old, has
headed the unit's Pasadena, Calif., office. Loomis Sayles
manages about $25 billion in institutional and individual
portfolios.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   New England Mutual said Mr. Riley is returning to his
previous post of executive vice president of the Prudential
Investment Corp. unit. New England Mutual said Mr. Riley is
rejoining Prudential under an arrangement that makes Boston
his center of operations, "near his home in Cohasset, Mass."
Mr. Riley said, "my interest was in finding the best balance
of family and professional considerations."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Spain's Beach Resorts See a Cloudy Future
   ---
   Many Empty Beds Create
   A Crisis of Confidence
   ----
   By Susan Carey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9B
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   SALOU, Spain -- Out on the street of this middle-class
Costa Dorada resort town it doesn't look so bad. Salou's
three biggest beaches are chockablock with bronzed Spaniards
and sun-splotched German, British and Belgian families.
Open-air bars and restaurants dish out pizza, paella and
sangria at all hours.
   Yet Salou, like many of Spain's sun-and-surf destinations,
is having a crisis, both of business and of confidence. After
years of 5% to 7% increases in tourists and tourism income,
Catalonia's biggest beach resort is finding that more than
10% of its 210,000 tourist beds are going begging this
season. Although city fathers say the crisis is primarily due
to a 71% decline in British package tourists -- who normally
fill about 40% of the town's 30,000 hotel beds and 10% of its
170,000 holiday apartment beds -- they also cite a worrying
weakness in the German, Irish, Dutch and Belgian markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is the worst year, the most difficult and irregular
year" since tourists began coming here in 1960, says Luis
Penalba, president of the town's association of tourist
apartments. Hotel and apartment occupancy was a third below
normal in May and June. Only in the past month, thanks to a
late surge of Spanish visitors and some price-cutting, did
hoteliers achieve the usual 90% to 95% occupancy -- for a few
weeks. Merchants say sales are off 50% or more from a year
ago.
   Salou has some specific troubles of its own, but many of
its woes mirror the general softening of tourist demand
throughout Spain. The downturn began last year when business
slumped an estimated 20% in the Canary Islands. In July,
Spain had 7% fewer tourists, compared with last year, and
tourist spending was off 22.5% in June, according to
government figures.
   For the first seven months of the year, overall visitors
were down 2.6%, with fewer Austrians, Belgians and Americans.
But the biggest blow has been an 18% drop this year in the
huge British market, Spain's third largest supplier of
foreign visitors, after France and Portugal.
   "It's not good to use the word crisis," says Felipe
Gaspart, secretary-general of Zontur, an association of
hotels in Spanish tourist areas. "But we are in a very
delicate position."
   As the season winds down to an unsatisfactory close, some
hotels in Andalusia are slashing prices 60% or more. More
than 30 hotels on the Costa del Sol probably will close
permanently at the end of the season, according to tourism
officials there.
   On Tenerife in the Canary Islands, one resort reportedly
ran out of cash this month to pay its workers, and two others
were repossessed by banks after the owners fell behind in
their interest payments. Worried entrepreneurs take this as a
portent. Local governments are sharply restricting the number
of hotels that can be built, and regional authorities are
talking about turning some older hotels into retirement
homes.
   To be sure, Spain has some bright spots. The total of
foreign visitors remains about flat this year, aided by a
boom in business travel. Although small in numbers, cultural
tourism to places such as Granada, Cordoba and Seville is up.
And the number of Japanese tourists, while minuscule, jumped
25% in the first half, a welcome development for five-star
hotels and ritzy boutiques. Finally, the 1992 Olympic Games
in Barcelona and the Expo '92 exposition in Seville should
give the industry a shot in the arm.
   But the backbone of Spain's mighty tourism business --
middle-class and working-class Europeans on two-week
inclusive holidays at the beach -- is weakening. Jane Shaw,
marketing manager for Air Tours, Manchester, England, could
be speaking about all Europeans when she says: "Our
holiday-makers have become more sophisticated. They're bored
with coastal Spain. They've been there several years running,
and they want to try something different."
   Familiarity breeds contempt, as do higher prices. The
strong Spanish peseta and 6.5% inflation have made Spain
costly for foreign visitors, especially those on limited
incomes who are most likely to come on package tours. The
strong peseta, says Mr. Gaspart of Zontur, "is our biggest
enemy."
   As a result, cheaper and more "exotic" destinations such
as Turkey, Tunisia and even the Caribbean are winning
sun-worshippers away from Spain, say tourism managers here.
   But the problems go deeper than that. Spain, the granddad
of package tourism, had about 35 million tourists last year
out of more than 54 million visitors. Over the years, the
country has built too many hotels and apartments, and more
are going up all the time. In the Balaeric Islands alone,
there is an estimated surplus of 30,000 to 40,000 hotel beds.
And much of the existing hotel stock is of the wrong sort.
"Twenty years ago, blocks of 14- and 15-story hotels went
up," says Tomas Navarro, a manager at Grupo Sol, Spain's
largest hotel company. "Nowadays, people want something
lower, with a garden."
   And visitors complain that service has deteriorated and
prices have increased.
   Madrid and the tourism ministries of Spain's autonomous
regional governments are struggling to upgrade the industry
and recast its image as not just sun and sand, but also
skiing, culture, gastronomy and areas off the beaten track.
   Esperanza Galiano Ramos, director of tourism policy for
the central government, says Madrid is offering low-interest
loans to hoteliers investing in new kitchens, telephone
systems, computers and the like. Ms. Galiano says some
regional authorities are taking legal steps to halt
construction of hotels aimed at low-income guests. Officials
also are planning a government survey of all hotels older
than five years. Those that don't invest and refurbish will
lose their stars. One official says 200 hostels in Barcelona
alone were closed for failing to meet higher standards.
   The federal budget for tourism promotion is up 11% this
year, and Madrid is giving the regions more money to promote
themselves.
   But it is infrastructure that Spain really needs. Money is
being poured into new highways, improved roads, cleaning of
beaches, sewage-treatment and water-purification plants and
airport expansions. Much of the expenditure is geared for the
Olympics and the Seville fair, but not all.
   Salou's special misfortunes stem directly from Spain's
poor infrastructure. In July 1989, seven British tourists
contracted typhoid fever here, probably from contaminated
drinking water. Because Salou is a popular destination for
Britons, the U.K. tabloid press went wild with the story.
They dubbed Salou "Typhoid Resort," and a rash of negative
stories followed.
   A few days after the typhoid news, there was a massive
rainstorm and flood.
   By then, the damage was done. British and Irish tour
operators began canceling room reservations here and later
cut charter flights. Package holiday bookings by air from the
U.K. to the Costa Dorada plunged more than 70%.
   Even with the water problem corrected, just about everyone
is hurting. Jordi Pamies, the owner of two shops that sell
porcelain figurines, says his revenue is down 56% from last
year, mainly on the decline in Britons. At Laura Bar, owner
Astrid Ribbelink says business is off 75%. "Last year, if you
didn't like somebody, you didn't serve them very well and
they never came back," she says. "Now you have to smile at
everybody. And you can't afford to turn away people who come
for dinner at 2 a.m."
   ---
   Nicholas Bray in Madrid contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Oglebay Norton Co.
   Gives Green New Post
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   OGLE WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- Oglebay Norton Co. directors named R. Thomas
Green Jr. executive vice president, making him the leading
candidate to be the next president of the mining and
lake-shipping concern.
   Mr. Green, 53 years old, joined the company in 1965 and
has headed both the company's silica and iron ore mining
businesses. His latest title was vice president, iron ore
operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Oglebay's president and chief executive officer, Renold D.
Thompson, is 64. Courtney Burton, chairman, is 77.
   Oglebay's largest business is lake shipping. It owns 13
Great Lakes ships and has agreed to purchase two others. The
company operates an iron ore mine and pellet processing plant
at Eveleth, Minn., which it owns jointly with steel company
partners. It produces silica for glass, paint and other uses;
mines coal, and manufactures products for the iron and steel
industry. In 1989, Oglebay earned $5 million, or $1.94 a
share, on revenue of $165.3 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gantos's 5 New Stores
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   GTOS
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. -- Gantos Inc. said it plans to open
five stores next year, well below the 30 stores it usually
opens each year.
   The women's clothing retailer said it is opening fewer
outlets because it needs to "pause and fine tune" its
existing operations. Gantos said it plans to remodel five of
its stores next year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raet N.V. Acquires
   Computer Service Unit
   Of Switzerland's Adia
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.ADI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ARNHEM, the Netherlands -- Raet NV, a computer software
and services company based here, said it acquired Automation
Center International, known as ACI, from Adia SA of
Switzerland.
   Terms weren't disclosed. Raet said ACI's revenue this year
is expected to total the equivalent of about $70 million,
compared with projected revenue of more than $225 million at
Raet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Huibert Matthes, chief executive officer of Raet, declined
to disclose profit figures for ACI but said they were better
than the 5.5% return on sales recorded by Raet last year.
   ACI, which has about 500 employees, operates offices in
West Germany, Switzerland, Austria and Belgium. The company's
specialties include setting up computer systems for car
dealers and insurance brokers, as well as operation of data
bases.
   Raet has 1,850 employees. For 1989, the company reported
net profit of 20 million guilders ($11.3 million) on revenue
of 370 million guilders ($209.6 million).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Sears Struggles to Save Catalog Business
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   S
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   SKOKIE, Ill. -- Two years ago, Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co.
undertook a crash program to stop the flow of red ink at its
famous catalog operation. It cut costs sharply and improved
service. It began taking orders over toll-free telephone
lines and selling some European-style clothes.
   So far, that hasn't been enough. The Sears catalog, with
annual sales of about $4 billion, hasn't made money since
1985. If it doesn't turn a profit soon, Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co.
may be forced to close the catalog that once set America's
standard of living.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For now, Sears is doing all it can to stay in the catalog
business. But last month, Sears Chairman Edward Brennan took
control of the company's faltering merchandise group and
vowed to improve profits. He is expected to slash expenses
and eliminate unproductive businesses. Catalog unit managers
"know they're on a short fuse," says one person close to the
company. Sears "has to exit businesses that don't perform,"
says another.
   Vern Page, the catalog unit's vice president, insists that
a turnaround is imminent -- and only slightly behind
schedule. Next year, he predicts, the catalog will be solidly
in the black.
   Nevertheless, Mr. Brennan stops short of making promises
about the catalog's future. "We conducted an intensive review
of our catalog operation in 1988 and decided to stay in the
business and to address our problems more aggressively," he
says through a spokesman. "We have had significant
improvement since then and the challenge now is to build on
that momentum."
   Sears would clearly prefer to keep the catalog, but the
fact that its fate is in question at all underscores the
depth of soul-searching now going on at Sears. Two years ago,
the giant retailing and financial services company seriously
considered closing the catalog but decided to give it one
last chance.
   The changes have been sweeping. The catalog business is
now a separate unit with its own management team. Its
offerings have been trimmed by a third, and distribution
costs have been cut sharply. The catalog also is satisfying
more customers, filling more than 97% of its orders, compared
with 92% in the early 1980s.
   The question remains, however, whether the changes came
too late. With store sales stagnant and profits depressed,
the catalog may not be sacred anymore.
   Still, traditions run deep at Sears -- and the mail-order
business dates back to the company's founding in 1886. That's
when Richard Sears started peddling watches through the mail
from an office in Minneapolis.
   Mr. Sears's promotional pitches still reverberate in some
corners of the black steel and glass Sears Tower in Chicago.
With the words "Send No Money" and a request for payment on
inspection, he persuaded skeptical rural Americans to try his
ever-expanding selection of goods. His slogan didn't hurt
either. He called his company the "cheapest supply house on
Earth."
   Sears hawked the latest in everything: silverware,
clothing, pistols, sewing machines, bicycles, and musical
instruments. Thomas Edison's windup phonograph known as a
"Talking Machine," made its debut in the big book. Sears even
sold cars and houses through the mail.
   Perusing the pages of the Sears catalog soon became a
popular pastime. "The Sears catalog was next to the Bible in
American homes," says retail analyst Walter Loeb.
   By the 1980s, however, the Sears catalog had lost touch
with American tastes and shopping habits. Specialty catalogs
were growing rapidly by catering to busy working women. These
catalogs offered a limited selection of merchandise and made
shopping easy by taking orders round-the-clock on toll-free
telephone lines. Even the dowdy Spiegel catalog was becoming
a stylish, shopper-friendly book.
   But Sears continued to do business the old way. It spit
out catalogs as thick as telephone books and received orders
by mail or at its 3,000 catalog offices. Despite the high
cost of operating these offices and the fact that catalog
shopping was becoming a strictly at-home affair, Sears
continued to tout them as a customer "convenience." The
company kept operating a network of inefficient warehouses
employing 12,000 people. It also stuck to traditional styles,
ignoring the changing tastes of young shoppers.
   Sears doesn't disclose catalog results. Analysts'
estimates, which vary widely, put the operation's losses at
$170 million -- or more -- in the past two years. Sears
officials won't comment. But the company's accounting methods
were so confusing that not even its own executives knew until
1988 how bad things were.
   That's when Sears got serious about reviving the business.
The newly created catalog unit got its own profit and loss
statement and its own headquarters in a two-story brick
building in this Chicago suburb.
   The catalog unit managers axed 83,000 unproductive items,
or a third of the catalog's inventory, including coats and
other clothing styles that customers frequently returned. As
a result, the dollar value of returned merchandise fell 12%
last year, the first such drop in recent memory.
   Managers also closed seven warehouses, eliminating the
jobs of more than half of the catalog's distribution staff.
And they sold unprofitable catalog offices in small towns to
management.
   They also started listening to the catalog's 30 million
customers. They split the big book in half, devoting one
catalog to apparel and the other to home furnishings. They
added a table of contents, more stylish goods and, of course,
the toll-free phone number.
   But Sears may have done too little too late. Its catalogs
still look cluttered and dull compared with most specialty
books. And its big Christmas catalog still hawks everything
from washing machines priced at $399.88 to Teen-Age Mutant
Ninja Turtle raincoats for $6.99.
   What's more, catalog sales growth is slowing and industry
sales could soften further if a recession develops. Even
highly efficient competitors such as Lands' End Inc., which
sailed through the 1980s with big sales and profit gains, are
running into trouble now. Lands' End, in fact, just reported
a $2.2 million loss for its fiscal second quarter.
   Mr. Page, the Sears catalog vice president, acknowledges
that the outlook is worsening. Sears may have to stimulate
business early next year by offering special promotions at
local catalog offices, he says. But, he insists, "We feel
we're right on target with the three- or four-year turnaround
program we worked out."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cries for Help:
   Some Addicts Beg
   For Drug Treatment,
   But Programs Are Full
   ---
   Faced With Long Wait Lists,
   One Crack User Gets Aid
   Only by Getting Arrested
   ---
   `We Turn Away Thousands'
   ----
   By Joe Davidson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Jeffrey Ellerbe ordered a Coke at a Roy
Rogers restaurant on the city's northeast side. It was 6:30
p.m. on July 17, 1988. When he paid the clerk with a dollar
bill, he also gave her a note: "Give me all the money."
   He took about $500, got in his 1986 blue Ford Tempo and
drove to a police station. "I went and I told them I just
robbed Roy Rogers," Mr. Ellerbe says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the police there hadn't yet received word of the
crime. "They looked at me like I was crazy and told me to get
out. So I went and got high with the money."
   Two hours after failing to get busted, Mr. Ellerbe waited
his turn at a crowded McDonald's restaurant in nearby Seat
Pleasant, Md., then handed the cashier the same robbery note
he had used before. He left the restaurant with a black
cash-register box containing about $140 and tried to turn
himself in at another police station.
   "They didn't believe me, either," he says. So he got high
again. "I wanted to get high," he says, "but I wanted to get
caught, too."
   He wanted to get caught because he was addicted to crack
cocaine. He says he had called more than a dozen drug
treatment programs, but all had long waiting lists. He says
his crime spree was designed more to get help for his
addiction than to finance it.
   "I wanted to go to jail, to get off the streets, to get
into a drug program," says Mr. Ellerbe, who is 30 years old.
Police, who confirm the robberies, have no comment on the
specifics of his confession attempts, but they do say
officers would be unable to arrest someone before they had
received a report of a crime.
   Mr. Ellerbe's story demonstrates not only how far some
addicts will go to seek help when they finally get the
courage to fight their addiction; it also shows one of the
major frustrations of the war on drugs: At public drug
treatment programs, there often is no room to get in.
   A May survey by the Therapeutic Communities of America --
the trade association for non-profit, long-term drug
treatment facilities, which can accept public funding and
indigent patients -- showed waiting lists that average four
months. (By contrast, many private facilities now have empty
beds because of corporate cutbacks in insurance coverage for
residential drug treatment.)
   "Society says, `Clean up your act, get a job, get
treatment,'" says Douglas Chiapetta, the trade group's
national office director. "When they try to change, they're
told there's a three- or four-month waiting list."
   A survey by the National Association of State Alcohol and
Drug Abuse Directors indicated a year ago that there were
nearly 67,000 people on drug treatment waiting lists for
programs of various kinds. According to the House Select
Committee on Narcotics and Control, only one-fifth of the
people who need treatment get it.
   The others may have missed what drug treatment
professionals call the "treatable moment." An addict who
doesn't get treatment when ready and willing to accept it may
not try again.
   In the past two years Congress has approved $140 million
specifically to try to reduce waiting lists. Non-profit drug
treatment facilities apply to the government for the funds,
which can be used for expanding treatment capacity through
hiring staff, remodeling or leasing facilities, but not for
construction. About 350 programs share the money.
Profit-making facilities serving those with money or
insurance aren't eligible.
   But those funds have an odd effect: "As word gets out that
there's available treatment, the waiting list grows" because
some who had been discouraged from applying then do so, says
Heddy Hibbard, a Department of Health and Human Services
official.
   There are some demands in Congress to provide the
resources that would allow people like Mr. Ellerbe to get
drug treatment on demand. Democratic Rep. Charles Rangel of
New York has introduced a bill to have Medicaid pay for drug
treatment. "It is unconscionable that we now turn away
thousands of people who finally aid themselves enough to ask
for assistance," he says. The bill has passed the Senate,
where New York Democrat Patrick Moynihan sponsored it, and
remains in committee in the House. In any case, the Medicaid
program covers only some of the poor.
   Democratic Sens. Joseph Biden of Delaware and Edward
Kennedy of Massachusetts have introduced legislation that
would provide $3 billion for a variety of treatment programs.
   Messrs. Rangel, Moynihan and some others in Congress are
critical of the Bush administration's emphasis on law
enforcement over treatment in its anti-drug efforts. But Bush
administration drug czar William Bennett says the distinction
between law enforcement and treatment may be a phony one
because many people enter treatment through the courts. His
Office of National Drug Control Policy says an on-demand
policy "would create a costly, unbalanced system that brings
no guarantee of higher treatment success rates."
   In the end, Mr. Ellerbe, whose story has been confirmed
through a variety of sources and records, felt the
criminal-justice system was his only hope of getting help.
   Mr. Ellerbe grew up in Washington, D.C., and says he first
got high on marijuana when he was 14 or 15. He was skipping
school then, he says, because his family was poor and he was
ashamed of his clothes. The youngest of six boys and two
girls, he had little contact with his father after his
parents divorced when he was six or seven, he says.
   He started smoking PCP after he was discharged from the
Army in 1983. After he began working as a maintenance man at
a university, his employer's insurance company helped him get
into a 30-day drug treatment program in the summer of 1987.
   When he completed the program, he was given a clear
marble, a symbol that he should stay "clear away" from dope.
"I thought I was well, but I wasn't," he says. Within three
days, he relapsed.
   The marble became a joke. He put it in the bowl of his
dope pipe.
   That November, he had his first hit of crack. "I'll never
forget that day," he says. His left hand was swollen and
painful, he says, because two months earlier it had been
crushed in a trash compactor at the university. Mr. Ellerbe
recalls a friend coming to visit who told him: "Smoke some of
this. It'll take all the pain away." It did.
   He continued to smoke crack because he thought it eased
the pain. "I didn't really think I was hooked until my hand
went down," he says. "My hand got well and I kept on buying
it."
   Mr. Ellerbe started stealing from his mother to finance
his habit. One day he took her bank card, he says, and
withdrew about $100 from the $3,000 she had deposited. He did
this every day until she had only $120 left. "I used to be
crying at night. I wanted to stop, but I couldn't stop. I'd
be praying and everything, asking God to help me. This stuff
is something else."
   During this period Mr. Ellerbe attended Narcotics
Anonymous meetings, where he got a list of 15 centers
offering various types of treatments. "I called every last
one of them on that list," he says. All he got were reasons
they couldn't help him. "We got 500 people in front of you,"
he says he was told. "We got 300 people in front of you.
There's no bed space. We're only taking females this month."
   Mr. Ellerbe created a test to focus his will power for
quitting drugs. He was expecting a $401.62 workers'
compensation check for his job-related injury, and he was
determined to hold himself back from spending the money on
dope.
   One day, the check arrived in the mail at 11:30. Mr.
Ellerbe immediately failed the test. "It seems like as soon
as I got that check, everything I had thought about was
gone," he says.
   He cashed the check at a liquor store and spent the day
smoking crack. But the higher he got, the more depressed he
became about breaking his promise not to get high anymore. "I
didn't like that life," he says. "I was hurting my mama."
   Frustrated that he couldn't shake his habit and angry that
he had smoked up all his money, Mr. Ellerbe went home and sat
on his porch, crying, thinking of his sister, who had
committed suicide by jumping off a bridge four years earlier.
"I felt like I was useless," he says, "like I didn't have
anything to live for."
   He says he contemplated suicide, but he couldn't think of
a way to do it. "What I came up with was getting locked up,"
he says, "to get off the streets and maybe I could get some
help in jail."
   In the summer of 1988, he says, he threw a chair through
the window of a police station, and police officers took him
to a psychiatric hospital. He stayed there for a week and got
counseling, he recalls. But he was told the hospital's drug
program was full. He left with a bus token and his addiction
intact.
   Within months of being discharged from the hospital, Mr.
Ellerbe and his mother recall, he sold television sets, a
video cassette recorder and a microwave oven that belonged to
his family and used the money to buy crack. "I just gave up
on myself," he says. "If I can't get in a drug program, I may
as well get high."
   But he decided to try again and began his one-day robbery
spree. After failing in his first efforts, Mr. Ellerbe
finally did get arrested after one more robbery that same
day. According to a Maryland District Court document, he
pulled his car alongside a pedestrian in suburban
Bladensburg, Md., and robbed her of $245 in personal
property, including a blue linen jacket and high heels. He
pleaded guilty to that robbery and to the two restaurant
hold-ups.
   As part of his sentence, he is enrolled in Rap Inc., a
Washington-based long-term treatment program with a residence
in the countryside of suburban Laurel, Md. Even after getting
arrested in July, he had to wait. He finally entered in
November 1988. If he successfully completes his treatment
program, Mr. Ellerbe may apply for a governor's pardon to
wipe his criminal record clean because he was convicted of
only "one day of crime in his entire life," said his lawyer,
Leonard Kuentz.
   He has undergone nearly two years of one-on-one
counseling, group sessions and peer pressure that promote
cooperation rather than confrontation. As a result, Mr.
Ellerbe has come a long way from the hot-tempered, "pretty
confused dude" he was when he entered the program, says Rap's
executive director, Ron Clark.
   Mr. Ellerbe's treatment is funded by local and federal
governments at about $40 a day. Two years is longer treatment
than usual. "There were some setbacks for him," says Mr.
Clark. "That happens from time to time."
   Mr. Ellerbe is a member of Rap's acquisition team, which
requires him to promote the program -- and himself -- to
businesses that may donate goods to the facility. The pride
and confidence that drugs destroyed have returned, he says.
While demonstrating his new, half-frame reading glasses, he
likes to discuss Nelson Mandela and U.S.-South African
politics. He has had job interviews in preparation for his
drug-free life.
   When Mr. Ellerbe graduates from Rap this November, his
spot will be filled immediately. Rap is treating 87 people
and has 380 on its waiting list.
   Mr. Ellerbe knows his adjustment to a drug-free life will
be difficult when he is on his own. "I notice now that when I
go home I don't have any friends at all," he says, because
his buddies still use drugs.
   The man who first turned Mr. Ellerbe on to crack still
gets high, according to Mr. Ellerbe. But that man also
provides a kind of incentive: He looks so bad -- skinny, with
no color -- that he helps Mr. Ellerbe stay clean by allowing
him to "remember all the things you've been through."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   American Business Computers Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   ABCC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY &amp; PRODUCTION, QUALITY CONTROL (ITC)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERICAN BUSINESS COMPUTERS Corp., Akron, Ohio, filed a
registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, covering 7.5 million common shares previously
sold through private placements. The company said that the
registration permits holders to sell shares, but that it
doesn't expect holders of major blocks of stock to sell their
shares. The company said it has about 13.5 million shares
outstanding, with six million of these relatively widely
held. American Business Computers develops and markets
products, such as soft-drink dispensers, for the food service
industry. Major customers are among the holders of the newly
registered shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada's Quarterly GDP Fell
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada's inflation-adjusted gross domestic
product declined at a compound annual rate of 1.6% in the
second quarter, Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   The downturn affected all major areas of domestic demand,
as well as corporate profits and personal disposable income.
In terms of 1986 prices, GDP was at a seasonally adjusted
annual rate of 571.33 billion Canadian dollars (US$498.09
billion) in the second quarter, off 0.4% from a first-quarter
rate of C$573.69 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The GDP implicit price index rose 0.9% from the first
quarter and 3.1% from a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ARTS &amp; LEISURE -- Publishing:
   Master of Gore and Perversity
   ----
   By Paul Levy
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Oxford, England -- The slim, boyish man wearing round
granny glasses opened the door of his large Victorian, North
Oxford house to me. The inner door had a big no-smoking sign
posted on it. The house itself is a very desirable piece of
real estate, probably now worth $1 million, with its vast
garden divided into five or six separate "rooms," one of
which contains a swimming pool. It was built sometime after
1880, when Oxford dons were first allowed to marry, as a
modest home for a university teacher with a family and the
necessary servants.
   The owner, Ian McEwan, one of England's most critically
praised authors, can afford to keep this domestic
establishment because he received an advance of #250,000
(about $486,000) for his latest novel, "The Innocent"
(Doubleday, 271 pages, $18.95). The book has been near the
top of the British best-seller list for more than three
months and it's earned Mr. McEwan wide critical attention in
the U.S. for the first time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The Innocent" is a love story, with the atmosphere and
structure of a spy thriller, set in Berlin in 1955, in which
the lovers' relationship echoes and is affected by the
just-starting Cold War. The story culminates in the death and
dismemberment, related at length and in graphic detail, of
the woman's former husband.
   Anyone who read Mr. McEwan's earlier novels would have
expected gore and perversity. In "The Cement Garden," four
orphaned children entomb their dead mother in concrete in a
trunk in the basement of the house they do not wish to leave.
"The Comfort of Strangers" is the story of a beautiful young
man killed as an act of love by a sadomasochistic older
couple; and in the superbly crafted "The Child in Time," a
five-year-old child is snatched from her father in a
supermarket.
   In Mr. McEwan's short stories a writer makes love to her
pet ape, a businessman copulates with a shop-window dummy,
and child abuse and incest are ordinary events. In 1979 the
BBC lost its nerve and canceled a McEwan teleplay because one
of the essential props was a jar containing a large pickled
penis.
   The man behind these eldritch provocations is a
respectable, middle-class husband and family man of 42 years.
He and his wife, Penny, have four children, two boys and two
teen-aged girls by her first marriage. The seven-year-old boy
will be starting at the nearby Dragon School, England's
smartest "prep school," in the autumn. Father and son are
often to be seen swimming and socializing at its handsome
pool during this exceptionally hot summer, "just for a change
of scenery" from their own pool.
   It was so hot and sunny when I called on Mr. McEwan that
we had difficulty finding a shady spot in the garden to drink
the tea that he had made in a good china pot. His mother
probably would have prepared tea for a visitor in just this
way, and served it, too, with proper cups, not mugs. Mr.
McEwan was born into an army family -- his father retired
with the rank of major -- and had a conventional English
education, majoring in English at the University of Sussex
and acquiring a master's degree from the University of East
Anglia. There, in 1970, he fell into the orbit of the
novelist Malcolm Bradbury, and it is often said that he is a
Bradbury protege, but this is not entirely correct: "The
course had not yet taken form -- nobody else had applied --
and I was influenced by the presence of other writers, as
well, such as Angus Wilson."
   Mr. McEwan had never written any fiction, but managed to
produce two short stories in as many weeks, and had finished
most of the stories that make up "First Love, Last Rites" in
a year. He had found his metier, and critical success came
rapidly. By 1975 the stories were between hard covers, and by
the mid-'80s he'd had two television plays produced, written
the libretto of an oratorio, and won no fewer than three film
credits as well as the valuable Whitbread Award (for "The
Child in Time," 1987). He has just completed the screenplay
of "The Innocent."
   Mr. McEwan enjoys the literary life, and sees a lot,
socially, of the writers of his generation. In Oxford this
includes the poets Craig Raine and James Fenton, the travel
writer Redmond O'Hanlon and the novelist Candia McWilliam;
only a couple of days after he gave me tea, I saw him at a
party for Julian Barnes at London's literary establishment,
the Groucho Club. While he doesn't think of himself as
political, he was a founding member of Lady Antonia Fraser's
anti-Thatcherite salon socialists, who called themselves the
June 20th Group, after the date of their first meeting. More
significantly, Mr. McEwan was an early supporter and is a
frequent public speaker for Charter 88, a group that wants
constitutional reform and a written bill of rights for
Britain. He has been brave enough to join those of his fellow
writers who have spoken out in defense of Salman Rushdie.
   It doesn't really add up. Pleasant-looking, "bien
pensant", clean-living and soft spoken, he is apparently
guileless. Open and easy to talk to, a good host, a constant
and thoughtful husband, an adoring and active father of small
children. How can such nightmare visions be constructed by
such a mild-mannered chap? How can such a balanced and by all
accounts loving person display such affection for mayhem and
mutilation?
   Did he, I asked, have as much difficulty in writing the
dissection scene of "The Innocent" as I did in reading it?
No, he said, he never flinched from the task of describing
how to cut up a body efficiently in a cold-water flat. It was
essential, not only to the plot, but to the effect of comic
relief as the hero, Leonard, struggles to dispose of the
large and heavy suitcases in which he has packed the remains,
and that attract the unwelcome attentions of a hungry dog.
   In order to make this ghastly scene as anatomically
correct as possible, he consulted Dr. Michael Dunhill, the
Oxford University lecturer in pathology. But he declined to
take up Dr. Dunhill's invitation to attend one of his routine
8:30 Monday-morning post-mortems.
   Of course, as Mr. McEwan reminds me, fiction proceeds from
the imagination, not necessarily from experience. This
obviously implies, he hastens to add before I make the point
myself, that his own imagination is peopled with these
unlovely and badly behaved characters, and of course, the
blood and the lust, the pus, the snot and excrement, must all
be there, somewhere in his unconscious. He only deploys them,
lovingly though his narrators may dwell upon their details,
as adjuncts to craftsmanship, to achieve literary effects.
What those who accuse him of sensationalism overlook is that
almost everything he has ever written is a love story. What
concerns him, almost exclusively, is love between men and
women (though both are sometimes under-age or in some other
way ineligible). Few other living writers are capable of
writing as tenderly about the act of love, few others are so
genuinely interested in the emotion of love. There is a sound
Gothic tradition in English letters, from "Monk" Lewis to
Mary Shelley, where writers, often on the left, occasionally
dip their nibs in gore. Though he denies that he feels "much
affinity with these late 18th-century novelists," Ian McEwan
may well be our last Romantic.
   ---
   Mr. Levy is a staff journalist at the Observer in London.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Bankshares Inc. Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   UBSI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
SOUTHERN U.S. BANKS (BAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHARLESTON, W.Va. -- United Bankshares Inc. said it
completed the merger of First National Bank of Weirton, W.
Va., into a unit of the bank holding company.
   First National of Weirton has assets of $43 million.
United Bankshares has more than $1.2 billion of assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lexington Savings Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LEXB WLBK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LEXINGTON, Mass. -- Lexington Savings Bank said its
shareholders approved the company's acquisition by Waltham
Savings Bank, a unit of Waltham Corp., Waltham, Mass.
   Waltham has agreed to buy Lexington Savings for $10.75 a
share, or about $25.5 million. Completion of the acquisition
remains subject to regulatory approval.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Investors Kept Cool in August Slide,
   Picking Stocks With Rising Profits
   ----
   By Craig Torres and Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   GLM BBN AEE TAL CGE GRH MKC EQP FFC ABC BLI HWY FVF FCI
TBO RCE GRG TBY DOW
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Last month, when fear of war breaking out in
the Middle East gripped the country, investors were behaving
remarkably rationally in the stock market.
   At least, that's how it looks upon examination of the New
York Stock Exchange shares that did best and worst last
month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Among the ten stocks that rallied the most, even as the
Big Board's Composite Index -- the broadest measure of the
exchange's common stocks -- fell 9.06%, are shares of
companies showing an earnings turnaround, strengthening their
balance sheets, or that are in the energy business. Takeover
stocks were the two biggest gainers.
   Among the biggest losers, a common characteristic was
disappointing earnings -- in a market already looking ahead
to weaker corporate profits.
   Unlike the prestige group of high-growth issues that
dominated investors' attention for the first half of the
year, many of the winning stocks trade thinly and are shares
of companies reporting better earnings for the first time in
a long while. Indeed, some of these stock prices are low
because of a history of bad earnings; small price advances
produce big percentage gains.
   Even so, the stories behind the stocks of August provide
investors an early look at what concepts of value are likely
to move stocks higher in the weeks ahead.
   "This is an event-driven market," says Michael Painchaud,
principal at Market Profile Theorems, a Seattle firm that
studies stock market trends. The event is the threat to a
large portion of the world's oil supply; the most visible
repercussion in the stock market has been a sharp
appreciation in energy issues.
   Global Marine, a highly leveraged, international offshore
driller and producer, could benefit from an escalation in rig
fees. The company was in bankruptcy proceedings until March
1989, and debt is currently about 400% of equity. But David
Herasimchuk, head of investor relations, says the company
negotiated beneficial terms on the remaining debt, which will
give it the flexibility to grow with an oil boom. With U.S.
energy policy likely to encourage domestic exploration and
production, Global Marine, with 27 drilling rigs, is in
position to benefit.
   Some investors sought haven last month in stocks of
companies that are snapping a streak of bad earnings. "The
market's reaction to the Mideast has been so severe because
of the fear that it would make a weak profit situation
worse," says Joseph McAlinden, director of research at Dillon
Read. "Any company bucking that trend would be a buy
candidate."
   Aside from the energy stocks, companies reporting or
expecting better earnings among the top ten are Bolt Beranek
&amp; Newman, Aileen, Talley Industries, Carriage Industries, and
GRC International.
   Bolt Beranek &amp; Newman, a Cambridge, Mass., technology
company, earned 21 cents a share in its fiscal fourth quarter
ended June 30, compared with a loss of $1.27 a share in the
same period a year earlier. Also, the company plans to buy
back $15 million of its long-term debt, and about 700,000
shares of stock, to strengthen its balance sheet. Analysts
are wary of recommending the stock yet because of prior
losses. But Steven B. Frankel, vice president at Adams,
Harkness &amp; Hill, says he is convinced the company has "a
storehouse of valuable technology."
   Earnings at Talley Industries are expected to get a boost
eventually from royalties on automobile air bags. The company
sold its air bag business to TRW Inc. more than a year ago,
but secured a 12-year royalty agreement that could be worth
$190 million, the company says.
   Carriage Industries, a carpet maker, earned 44 cents a
share in the fourth quarter ended July 1, compared with 1
cent a share in the year-earlier period. The company,
followed by few analysts on Wall Street, is expecting further
earnings improvement in 1991, and gains in market share.
   Marion Merrell Dow is expected to have stable to higher
earnings in coming quarters. But a huge buyer in the market
-- Dow Chemical -- is largely responsible for lifting the
stock 19% last month. Michael Smith, director of research at
B.C. Christopher, says investors perceive a floor under the
stock because of Dow Chemical's option to purchase up to 80%
of the shares outstanding by July 1992. Dow Chemical
announced Friday that it owns a 68% stake.
   GRC International earned 10 cents a share in the fourth
quarter ended June 30 compared with a 20 cent loss the
previous year. The company is also redeeming some bonds with
high interest rates.
   Another example of investors favoring stronger balance
sheets is Health Equity Properties. The real estate
investment trust trimmed its short-term debt burden in
August, replacing it with bonds convertible into stock.
   Real buy-outs and stocks that appear to be takeover
candidates shot up in August.
   Fund American Cos. recently agreed to sell its insurance
operations to West German insurer Allianz for $3.3 billion.
The remaining company has a large investment in oil stocks.
   Equimark's share price was rising even before the Tisch
family on Friday disclosed a 6.8% stake in the company. One
analyst, who declined to be identified, said investors have
been buying the stock on the possibility of a takeover.
"Investors are looking at the break-up value," he said. They
think Equimark Chairman Alan Fellheimer "will salvage his
investment" by selling parts or all of the company, the
analyst said.
   The earnings disappointments of the top losers echoed
several familiar woes: slumping consumer spending, fallout
from a lousy junk-bond market, debt problems, tightening
credit and rising oil prices.
   AmBase, a New York insurance and financial services
concern, was the top percentage loser. It had a large
second-quarter loss, compared to a year-earlier profit. The
company cited losses from junk-bond holdings in its Home
Insurance Co. unit and lackluster results in its investment
services operations, including Gruntal &amp; Co., a brokerage.
Adding to its woes were doubts about a plan to sell the
insurance unit.
   Businessland, the San Jose, Calif., computer retailer,
posted a large loss for its fourth-quarter ended June 30. The
loss put the company in violation of covenants on senior
notes and surprised analysts, who were further distressed by
news that the company would have to restate results for the
fiscal second and third quarters because of accounting
errors.
   Huntway Partners, the third-largest loser, can place at
least some of the blame for its performance squarely on
Saddam Hussein. The Valencia, Calif., liquid-asphalt company
said that while first-half results were strong, rising oil
prices would hurt earnings in the future -- especially since
asphalt prices have been falling.
   Finevest Foods, a Greenwich, Conn., frozen-food and
dairy-products company, posted second-quarter earnings of
$764,000, or seven cents a share, up from $179,000, or two
cents a share, a year earlier. But some analysts were
expecting 10 cents a share, the company says. With just 10.6
million shares outstanding, and 51% of them in the chairman's
hands, it isn't hard to move the stock.
   For Fairfield Communities, the problem is skittishness
about the real estate business. Its lender, Bank of Boston,
cut the resort developer's credit facility and put the
company on a 47-month installment plan to pay the debt
outstanding. The company said the move would hurt its ability
to do business.
   Tacoma Boatbuilding, Tacoma, Wash., might have been
expected to do better last month, with roughly half its
business coming from U.S. and foreign government military
contracts. But the company posted a second-quarter loss,
compared with a year-earlier profit. Expansion costs are
hurting profitability, the company said.
   As an industrial sewing-machine maker, Reece Corp., based
in Waltham, Mass., posted a loss and cut its dividend, citing
a slowdown in capital spending among struggling apparel
makers.
   "What's worse for us is the credit crunch," says Don Blom,
vice president, finance. "That has had a pronounced effect on
our smaller customers that tend to finance their equipment
needs."
   Great American Bank, based in San Diego, posted a sharply
wider loss due to loan and real-estate losses near the end of
July, knocking it out of compliance with regulatory
requirements. There isn't any guarantee that a pending sale
of some its branches would meet regulatory and shareholder
approval, the bank said.
   Greenery Rehabilitation Group, Newton, Mass., was another
company where shares got hammered for reporting
lower-than-expected second-quarter earnings. The long-term
health-care provider announced a $10 million buy-back of
stock, but the stock didn't respond.
   Investors sold shares of TCBY Enterprises, a Little Rock,
Ark., chain of yogurt stores, on the news that third-quarter
earnings would be hurt by increased competition and a slowing
economy.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stocks closed higher in the slowest session of the year,
with institutional and futures-related buying lifting prices.
   With the Persian Gulf situation remaining unsettled and
U.S. markets closed yesterday for the Labor Day holiday, few
investors took part. New York Stock Exchange volume failed to
surpass 100 million shares for the first time since the
session after last Christmas. Just 96,480,000 shares changed
hands on the Big Board; the previous low for the year was
111.7 million on July 6.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 21.04 to 2614.36
-- bringing its rise for the week to 81.46 points, or 3.2%.
The weekly advance snapped the industrial average's six-week
losing streak.
   Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index rose 3.85 to 322.56; the
New York Stock Exchange Composite index gained 1.74 to 176.97
and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index added 3.23 to 298.81.
All three indexes each posted a gain of about 3.5% for the
week.
   Oil stocks and consumer issues viewed as
recession-resistant performed strongly.
   Exxon rose 1 1/8 to 50; Chevron added 5/8 to 75 7/8; Mobil
rose 7/8 to 63 7/8, and Amoco climbed 1 to 55. In the
consumer sector,
   Coca-Cola Co. rose 1 to 42 1/4; Merck rose 1 5/8 to 81 5/8
and Procter &amp; Gamble added 3/4 to 77.
   Bank of New England climbed 1 1/8 to 2 1/8 in trading of
2.6 million shares after the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
denied speculation that federal regulators were about to
seize the bank holding company's main unit. On Thursday, the
stock fell 1/2 as the rumors swept through the market.
   Continental Bank gained 3/4 to 10 7/8 and Equimark gained
1 to 5 5/8. A group including investors Laurence and Preston
Tisch disclosed that it has a 5.6% stake in Continental and a
6.8% interest in Equimark. Bank of Boston, in which the
Tisches hold an 8.9% stake, advanced 1/2 to 8 3/4.
   Sovran Financial climbed 2 3/4 to 26 1/2 and Citizens &amp;
Southern added 2 3/8 to 21 3/4; the two bank holding
companies are close to completing their merger. Sovran, the
surviving company, is among the S&amp;P 500; as a result,
managers of index funds were adjusting their positions to
reflect the merger's effect on the market capitalization of
Sovran, according to Dow Jones Professional Investor Report.
   Ohio Edison went up 1/4 to 16 7/8 on 2.7 million shares,
with dividend-related trading among institutions accounting
for the bulk of the activity. The utility stock has an 8.9%
dividend yield and goes ex-dividend today.
   Toys "R" Us dropped 1/8 to 25 3/8 on more than one million
shares. The stock traded as low as 24 1/8 following a report
that 11 Japanese toy retailers are forming an alliance in an
effort to protect themselves against the company's expansion
plans.
   Tonka rose 5/8 to 5 3/4 following a report that investor
Malcolm Glazer has bought about 500,000 of its common shares,
or a 3% stake. Both the company and Mr. Glazer, who has
launched bids for several other companies in the past,
declined to comment.
   Sotheby's Holdings Class A climbed 3/4 to 12 5/8. Its
board authorized the repurchase of as many as three million
Class A shares, or 16.2% of the shares outstanding.
   ---
         Big Board's 10 Best Performers in August
                                                                                                       

    CLOSING   NET    PERCENT
    PRICE     GAIN   CHANGE  COMMENTS
                                                                                                       

 Equimark
    5 5/8   + 1 3/4  +45.2%  Stock started climbing on
                             takeover talk even before Tisch
                             family disclosed a 6.8% stake
                                                                                                       

 Fund American Cos.
   47 7/8   +11 3/8  +31.2   Recently agreed to sell its
                             insurance operations to West
                             German insurer Allianz for
                             $3.3 billion
                                                                                                       

 Bolt Beranek and Newman
    5 1/2   + 1 1/8  +25.7   Investors attracted by the
                             technology company's first
                             profit after six losing
                             quarters
                                                                                                       

 Health Equity Properties
    5 5/8   + 1 1/8  +25.0   Real-estate investment trust
                             eased its short-term debt
                             burden with bonds convertible
                             into common stock
                                                                                                       

 Talley Industries
    7 1/8   + 1 3/8  +23.9   Receives royalties from TRW

                                                                                                       

 Global Marine
    6       + 1 1/8  +23.1   A highly leveraged oil and gas
                             driller that should benefit
                             from rising energy prices
                                                                                                       

 Aileen
    2 3/4   +   1/2  +22.2   Women's clothier reported a
                             strong increase in fourth-
                             quarter profits
                                                                                                       

 Carriage Industries
    5 1/8   +   7/8  +20.6   Carpet manufacturer reported
                             strong increase in fourth-
                             quarter profit
                                                                                                       

 Marion Merrell Dow
   33 5/8   + 5 3/8  +19.0   Investors see stock protected
                             from sharp declines because of
                             Dow Chemical's 68% stake, which
                             could grow to 80%
                                                                                                       

 GRC International
    3 1/4   +   1/2  +18.2   Technology firm with erratic
                             earnings record may be headed
                             back to profitability
   ---
         Big Board's 10 Worst Performers in August
                                                                                                       

    CLOSING   NET    PERCENT
    PRICE     GAIN   CHANGE  COMMENTS
                                                                                                       

 AmBase
    2 3/8   - 4 1/2  -65.5%  Insurance and financial
                             services concern had a big
                             second-quarter loss vs. year-
                             before profit, and suspended
                             dividend
                                                                                                       

 Businessland
    2 3/4   - 4 1/8  -60.0   Computer retailer had a large
                             fiscal fourth-quarter loss and
                             shareholder lawsuit alleging
                             securities fraud
                                                                                                       

 Huntway Partners
    4 1/2   - 5 1/8  -53.2   Liquid-asphalt company said
                             lower prices and rising oil
                             costs will hurt future earnings
                                                                                                       

 Finevest Foods
    3 1/2   - 3 3/4  -51.7   Frozen-food and dairy-products
                             concern's return to profit-
                             ability disappointed some
                             analysts
                                                                                                       


    1 3/8   - 1 1/8  -45.0   Resort developer lost a credit
                             facility, hampering its ability
                             to do business
                                                                                                       

 Tacoma Boatbuilding
    1 1/2   - 1 1/8  -42.9   Posted a second-quarter loss
                             vs. year-before profit and said
                             expansion costs are hurting
                             profitability
                                                                                                       

 Reece
    4       - 2 7/8  -41.8   Industrial sewing-machine maker
                             had a second-quarter loss,
                             partly due to ailing apparel
                             industry
                                                                                                       

 Great American Bank
    1 1/4   -   7/8  -41.2   Big loan and real-estate losses
                             pushed this West Coast bank out
                             of regulatory compliance in
                             late July
                                                                                                       

 Greenery Rehabilitation
   8 1/4    - 5 5/8  -40.5   Health-care company's higher
                             second-quarter earnings fell
                             short of some analysts'
                             estimates
                                                                                                       

 TCBY Enterprises
   7 3/8    - 5      -40.4   Increased competition and a
                             slowing economy will hurt this
                             yogurt retailer's third-quarter
                             earnings
                                                                                                       

   Note: Excludes stocks whose closing price on July 31,
1990, was below $2.
   ---
                  Amex Winners and Losers
                                                                                                       

 COMMON                            CLOSING   NET    PERCENT
 STOCK                             PRICE     GAIN   CHANGE
                                                                                                       

                      Best Performers
                                                                                                       

 Mars Graphic Services             10 1/4  + 2 1/8  +26.2%
 Numac Oil &amp; Gas                    6 5/8  + 1 1/8  +20.5
 Cheyenne Software                  5 7/8  + 1      +20.5
 American Exploration               4      +   5/8  +18.5
 Mitchell Energy                   21 1/2  + 3 1/8  +17.0
                                                                                                       

                     Worst Performers
                                                                                                       

 Vader Group                        1 1/8  - 1 7/8  -62.5%
 FFP Partners                       1 7/8  - 3 1/8  -62.5
 ATI Medical                        5 3/4  - 6      -51.1
 Catalina Lighting                  4 3/8  - 3 7/8  -47.0

                                                                                                       

   Note: Excludes stocks whose closing price on July 31,
1990, was less than $2
   ---
                  OTC Winners and Losers
                                                                                                       

          (From Nasdaq's National Market System)
                                                                                                       

 COMMON                           CLOSING    NET     PERCENT
 STOCK                            PRICE      GAIN    CHANGE
                                                                                                       

                      Best Performers
                                                                                                       

 Engineered Support Systems        5 1/4   + 3 1/8   +147.1%
 Tony Lama Co.                     8 1/2   + 3 3/4   + 78.9
 Courier Dispatch Grp.             4       + 1 1/2   + 60.0
 Dawson Geophys.                   4 13/16 + 1 11/16 + 54.0
 Networks Electronic               3 1/2   + 1       + 40.0
                                                                                                       

                     Worst Performers
                                                                                                       

 PharmaKinetics Laboratories         3/4   - 1 1/2   - 66.7%
 Children's Discovery Centers      1       - 2       - 66.7
 First Executive                   1 1/8   - 1 13/16 - 61.7
 Abraham Lincoln FSB               2 1/2   - 3 3/4   - 60.0
 Envirosafe Services               7       - 9 3/4   - 58.2
                                                                                                       

   Note: Excludes stocks whose closing price on July 31,
1990, was less than $2
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business World:
   A Working Woman's Network Into Motherhood
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   BOISE, Idaho -- Mary Cunningham Agee insists she is doing
today what she was trying to accomplish at the former Bendix
Corp. a decade ago: help women gain options in their lives.
That wasn't understood then, she says, because her
relationship to the CEO -- now her husband -- was the stuff
of business gossip. She wants it clear now, in relation to
her four-year-old Nurturing Network.
   A feminist basis for the group might seem odd because its
mission is to provide alternatives to abortion, access to
which is a litmus issue for many female careerists. But Mrs.
Agee sees herself providing a truer "choice" for working
women than merely the desperate ending of a pregnancy to
salvage a personal future.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Before she gained notoriety in the early 1980s as the
personification of Ms. Fast Track -- Harvard Business School
to the corporate suite while still in her 20s -- Mary
Cunningham had been a logic major at Wellesley. That trained
her to realize, she says, that "the life vs. choice debate
will go on forever, because they are not opposites."
   A miscarriage six years ago engaged her emotionally, she
says, in the tender trials of maternal loss. Her informal
surveys convinced her that most abortions are forced by job
demands, associates at school, family or mate. She is
outraged by this "ultimate violence to women," she says, and
the Nurturing Network is her response.
   Mrs. Agee pulls from her desk a "data base" of employers
and colleges that will arrange quickly to maintain the career
or schooling of a pregnant woman while she escapes an
unaccepting or pressurized environment. If the woman wishes
to change addresses as well, a "nurturing family" resembling
the home in which she was raised can be found for her, rent
free, nearly anywhere in the country.
   Building the network began with Mrs. Agee calling 15
contacts from her corporate days. William Agee, now the CEO
of Morrison Knudsen Corp., has provided names. The attraction
of more than 1,000 clients was largely by word of mouth.
   For now, all calls come through a small suite of offices
on Main Street in Boise (208 344-7200). The Agees and their
two young children moved here in 1988.
   It's not life in the big city but Mrs. Agee, 39, still
thinks of herself as a strategic planner. Before starting
Nurturing Network, she says, she did an "industry analysis"
to determine that most abortion-alternative programs were for
teen-agers, while 80% of those facing a "crisis pregnancy"
were older. Referrals to homes for unwed mothers were what
these women were offered. "Tell me that a 24-year-old
graduate of a good state university is going to think that's
viable," she says. "She's not. She's going to say, `Well, I
guess it doesn't happen to women like me. I have one
choice.'"
   Mrs. Agee's counselors tell these women they are many, and
that they have other choices. Sometimes handholding is
enough: The woman has medical benefits through work and a
sufficiently supportive family, and chooses to stick it out.
When that won't do, the network is activated. Mrs. Agee cites
a recent client with a background not unlike her own. The
28-year-old Ivy Leaguer worked at a Wall Street investment
bank -- for the father of her baby-to-be. "And as far as he
was concerned, the baby went or she went -- and he could make
it happen," she recounts. "You go, `That's illegal, they
can't do that.' They do it. It happens all the time. Suddenly
your work history looks a little different. Your assignment
wasn't handled properly. We all know that you can be made to
fail. I know that better than anybody."
   Nurturing Network seeks to empower its clients. In this
case, "We moved her 3,000 miles away to another
investment-banking house -- not as big, not as prominent, but
a good assignment working for a senior partner, where she is
going to work corporate finance, she's going to have some
interesting deals." The woman plans to have and keep the
child and stay on the West Coast.
   Although most of the clients aren't in "glamorous" jobs,
Mrs. Agee says, and may only need secretarial work, the stars
stand out because those women are assumed to plan their
pregnancies as carefully as they would a sales presentation.
   Mrs. Agee recalls helping a Fortune 500 riser relocate to
New Mexico, where she took one of the "assistant to the boss"
positions that is typically arranged. She gave her baby up
for adoption and returned to her old job. "Her current
employer has no idea what happened during those five months,"
Mrs. Agee says.
   A parent's supposed illness might be a pretext for such a
personal leave. In such a situation, the woman "won't make a
financial killing but she won't need to," Mrs. Agee says.
"She wants to keep her resume intact. That's what's
motivating her."
   Not all fast-trackers will avoid slipping a step or two.
"I can't guarantee that about anyone, much less someone with
a crisis on their hands," Mrs. Agee says. But she maintains
that, by influencing employment practices on the margin,
she's helping to overcome a "signal I saw being sent in
society, that women could either be mothers or working women.
The signal for me is so dangerous because it separates a lot
of women from an integral part of themselves. It was
something I almost made the mistake of doing. . . . It's a
very easy pattern to get into, because it reinforces itself
-- you surround yourself with other women making that
`choice.'"
   Mrs. Agee says she hopes soon to be able to reveal at
least four employers that have been working with her quietly
while watching to make sure she stays clear of the politics
of abortion. She counts on greater support as "more and more
corporations that are running scared from organizations like
Planned Parenthood are looking at Nurturing Network and
saying this is great, because you're not in the middle of the
debate." Because she envisions "not steady growth, but major
growth," Mrs. Agee wants to franchise her concept around the
country.
   Mrs. Agee portrays her husband as exemplary of enlightened
management and says that was what attracted her to him and
Bendix. "I was very idealistic," she says. "I thought that
you could accomplish wonderful societal reforms through
{corporate} organizations, not only by how you handle your
employees but by supporting a CEO who had those policies."
But her "iconoclastic" ways weren't understood. Now, she
says, she has adopted a more traditional service-group
approach.
   Although Mrs. Agee is Catholic and arms of the church have
been among the most active promoters of her network, she
doesn't mention religion until prodded, and then says only,
"Catholicism is utterly consistent with what I'm doing but it
is not the motivation for what I'm doing."
   Readers of her 1984 book, "Powerplay," found Mary
Cunningham driven by many things. It seems the searing
experiences in a male-dominated world linger, bubbling up
amid the passion of Mary Agee that powers the Nurturing
Network.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   B.F. Goodrich Sells a Business
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   CSL GR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   AKRON, Ohio -- B.F. Goodrich Co., a producer of polyvinyl
chloride, specialty chemicals and aircraft parts and
services, said it completed the sale of its off-highway
braking systems business to Carlisle Cos., Syracuse, N.Y.,
which produces single-ply roofing, computer tape, specialty
wire and cable, and other products, including brake parts.
Terms weren't disclosed.
   The Goodrich unit produces brakes for construction, mining
and other off-highway vehicles, and had 1989 sales of $47
million. Goodrich said the sale won't have a significant
effect on its 1990 profit. Goodrich's sales last year were
$2.4 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Gulf Crisis May Be Watershed for Europe
   ---
   EC's Response Highlights
   Lack of Political Unity
   ----
   By Mark M. Nelson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   CARTAGENA, Spain -- Juan Jose Romera-Rodriguez watches
worriedly as his youngest son, Francisco, and 135 other
Spanish sailors climb aboard the corvette Descubierta, bound
for the Persian Gulf.
   Around him on the dock, Spain's mixed emotions about the
maneuver are clearly apparent. A chorus of protesters, 200
strong, begins a rhythmic chant: "Spanish soldiers are not
for war]" Other bystanders climb surrounding walls and try to
drown out the protests with cheers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite the popular ambivalence about whether to send
troops to the Gulf, the Spanish government has left little
doubt about why it decided to do so. The nation's forces are
going to the Middle East not for Spain, not for the U.S. and
not even for cheaper oil. Rather, Spain has justified the
mission -- its first major foreign military effort since the
Spanish-American War nearly a century ago -- by maintaining
that it fulfills a commitment to a united Europe.
   "We're members of the {European} Community now," explains
Mr. Romera-Rodriguez, wiping the sweat from his sunburned
forehead. "We have to stand together."
   To some, the EC's efforts in the Middle East show how
Europeans collectively can play a more visible political role
in global affairs, and not just a greater economic one.
Pierre Champenois, head of the political-military affairs
department in the Belgian Foreign Ministry, asserts that "a
European framework {for political and defense matters} is
taking shape."
   At the same time, however, the EC's response is also
highlighting just how far the group's 12 member states still
have to go if they are to achieve their oft-stated goal of
political unification. "Each country in Europe has reacted to
this crisis in ways that are typical for the way they have
behaved for the past 100 years or so," says Bill Cash,
chairman of the British Parliament's backbench committee on
European affairs and an outspoken opponent of EC political
union. Placing self-interest above the interests of the
group, he says, the EC nations have been "absolutely true to
form."
   British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, too, has argued
that the crisis shows how talk about a common security policy
as part of EC political union is little more than "rhetoric."
Only France and Britain have done more than the bare minimum,
she said, adding, "It is sad that, at this critical time,
Europe has not fully measured up to expectations."
   Speaking on behalf of the EC's Council of Ministers, over
which Italy is presiding for the rest of the year, Italian
Foreign Minister Gianni De Michelis called Mrs. Thatcher's
remarks "unjustified and ungenerous" and insisted that the EC
has acted "effectively and with clarity of intentions and
decisions." While he said that the EC wouldn't as a group
respond positively to President Bush's request for help in
paying for U.S. forces in the Gulf, he noted that the
community could assume a larger role in aiding such nations
as Turkey, Jordan and Egypt, which have been hit hard
economically by the crisis.
   In many ways, progress on the post-1992 single market and
the coming talks about a more unified political structure and
single EC currency have raised public expectations far beyond
the community's ability to deliver. The EC's 12 small armies
are still designed more to protect their countries from one
another or from the Soviets than to project Europe's
collective power and influence in the world. And even though
the EC has stepped up efforts to coordinate its members'
political positions toward Iraq, the cumbersome process
hasn't been able to match the speed and clarity of statements
and actions by individual members or by the U.S.
   Indeed, most EC specialists on the Continent, as well as
several other national leaders, say they see the stumbling
over Iraq merely as further proof that a stronger political
structure is needed. They note that in such areas as trade
and commerce, concerted efforts by the 12 member states have
already made the EC a major world player.
   "It's clear that we must go further" toward a common EC
defense and security policy, Belgian Prime Minister Wilfried
Martens was quoted as saying in an interview published
Saturday in La Libre Belgique, a Belgian newspaper.
   As things stand, the EC's ability to play a major role in
such fast-moving international events as the Gulf crisis is
made nearly impossible by the maddening complexity of its
institutions. Under the Treaty of Rome, the EC's main
charter, military matters can't even be discussed. Such
issues can be broached only within the Western European
Union, which was created by a treaty in 1955 and which groups
only nine of the nations in a defense pact.
   More recent attempts to bring a narrower range of military
and security matters under the authority of the EC itself, as
were made during the 1986 revision of the Treaty of Rome,
have been blocked by the neutral Irish. In situations like
the Middle East crisis, the result is a merry-go-round of
meetings in which the WEU and EC separately hash out
interrelated parts of the same problem.
   Not surprisingly, it took the WEU nearly three weeks to
decide to send a joint naval mission to the Gulf, partly
because many of the ministers who had to meet were either on
vacation or had to attend to duties at the national level.
Similarly, a week after the U.S. moved to expel part of
Iraq's diplomatic mission in Washington, EC diplomats still
haven't taken a definite stand of their own.
   Because of their limited deployments in the Gulf, EC
countries will have only limited influence in the way the
crisis unfolds. Defense specialists say that European forces
will in general still depend on the U.S. to be in charge of
overall coordination if fighting begins.
   This probably also means that the U.S. would do most of
the fighting, if it comes to that. The massive French
aircraft carrier Clemenceau, for example, which is now in the
Indian Ocean and heading for the Gulf, doesn't even have
attack aircraft on board. While it is equipped with 42
helicopters, the fighting ship has been converted for this
mission into a massive supply ship and operations base. West
Germany, meanwhile, says it can't take part in the
U.N.-backed blockade of Iraq without a constitutional change.
   And although Britain has been one of the nations most
deeply involved in the Gulf force, even it has been reluctant
to supply significant ground troops. Last week, Britain said
it was sending another destroyer and three minesweepers to
complement the three-ship fleet and three dozen or so fighter
aircraft it already has in the region. But experts say the
force is still relatively small.
   Military preparedness hasn't been an EC priority in recent
years. Between 1988 and 1989, EC nations' defense spending
didn't grow at all, remaining at about $131 billion at a time
when the costs of replacing and maintaining equipment and
personnel were skyrocketing, according to figures compiled by
the London-based International Institute for Strategic
Studies.
   The Continental nations argue that the European public
would be more willing to support a unified EC military, which
could actually have some influence in the world, than 12 tiny
armies that don't add up to much. An EC defense structure may
soon be the only way to keep any army in many EC countries,
says Belgium's Mr. Champenois. "If we keep going the way we
are going nationally," he contends, "we will end up with no
defense."
   But that idea has its own set of problems, France being
one of them. Although a supporter of EC political
integration, France has so far been unwilling to include
defense in the discussions. Former French President Charles
De Gaulle, who pulled France out of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization's integrated command in 1966, is still a sacred
figure in French defense circles. French resistance to losing
the independence he nurtured -- especially with respect to
France's nuclear force -- has brought to a halt most serious
discussions about EC defense.
   Despite such hurdles, most experts believe that the Gulf
crisis will prove a watershed in forcing Europe to think more
clearly about the role it wants to play in the world. Says
Don Kerr, a defense specialist at the International Institute
for Strategic Studies: "The U.S.'s position as the country
which has to send forces all over the globe is getting to be
a good deal less comfortable" for Washington, mainly because
of the cost of such missions.
   ---
                     Uneven Allies
                                                                                                       

   Though the combined armies of European Community countries
make it look like a superpower...
                                                                                                       

                                  EC             U.S.
                                                                                                       

   Active forces             2.5 million      2.1 million
   Major battle ships        212              229
   Submarines                116              133
   Battle tanks              13,677           15,992
   Combat aircraft*          3,106            3,577
   Military spending**       $131 billion     $290 billion
                                                                                                       

   ...In the Gulf, EC forces are dwarfed by the U.S.
                                                                                                       

                                  EC             U.S.
                                                                                                       

   Forces***                 7,000            100,000
   Major battle ships        15               45
   Combat aircraft           40               170
                                                                                                       

   *Air force equipment only; excludes aircraft under army or
navy command.
   **1989 exchange rates.
   ***Compiled from national sources. Does not include 5,000
French troops stationed in Djibouti. U.S. figures include
40,000 still en route.
                                                                                                       

   Source: International Institute for Strategic Studies,
Military Balance, 1989-1990.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   AVP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
COSMETICS, PERSONAL CARE, OVER-THE-COUNTER REMEDIES (COS)
</IN>
<LP>
   AVON PRODUCTS Inc.'s Ba-1 ratings were confirmed by
Moody's Investors Service Inc., a move affecting about $600
million of debt. The rating concern had placed the New York
cosmetics company's debt under review with direction
uncertain on May 4.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BBA Group PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   U.BBA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- BBA Group PLC, a British auto and aviation parts
manufacturer, said it agreed to buy a Dallas-based aerospace
parts subsidiary of Hillman Co. in exchange for a 4.99% stake
in BBA.
   BBA is to acquire Texstar Inc., which makes high
technology plastic parts and composite materials for the
aerospace industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hillman will receive 11,960,000 BBA ordinary shares, which
at 138.5 pence a share price values the deal at #16.6
million.
   Textar had an operating profit of $4.3 million last year
on sales of $32 million, with commercial and military
aerospace markets accounting for 60% of the sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shell Canada Plan to Develop Gas Field
   Is Cleared by Alberta; Husky Bid Loses
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA RD SC T.SHC NVA T.NVA
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   CALGARY, Alberta -- Alberta energy regulators approved an
825 million Canadian dollar (US$719.2 million) plan by Shell
Canada Ltd. to develop its big Caroline sour gas field,
rejecting a rival plan of Husky Oil Ltd.
   The decision followed weeks of public hearings this spring
on the competing proposals, and months of rancorous debate
about the environmental impact of developing the Caroline
reservoir, which is generally regarded as the largest gas
find in Canada in years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Shell Canada is a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group, an
Anglo-Dutch concern.
   Caroline is expected to produce C$10 billion of natural
gas, natural gas liquids, gas condensate and sulfur during
its 30-year life. The reservoir's "sour" gas designation
stems from its high content of deadly hydrogen sulphide.
   "We're delighted with the decision," said Ray Woods, Shell
Canada's vice president, resources development. He said site
development work will start this fall at Caroline, 75 miles
northwest of Calgary, pending final approval from Alberta's
minister of environment. Production is scheduled to begin by
the first quarter of 1993.
   Husky, whose plan called for construction of a 30-mile
pipeline to transport Caroline's sour gas to Husky's
under-utilized Ram River gas-processing plant, said it will
now work hard to bring Caroline into production as soon as
possible. "We accept the board's decision and we are now
prepared to work with Shell and the other partners," said a
spokeswoman for Husky, 43%-owned by Nova Corp. of Alberta. A
group of 14 companies holds interests in Caroline, led by
Shell Canada, with 62%. Husky owns 12%.
   The Alberta Energy Resources Conservation Board -- the
quasi-judicial body that issued the ruling -- said that
although Husky's plan had some advantages, they were
outweighed by those offered by Shell Canada.
   Among other things, it said Shell Canada's plan would
yield greater economic benefit, reduce safety risks and be
more reliable, as Shell Canada plans to process gas from
Caroline at a new plant, whereas Husky's proposal depended on
upgrading its aging Ram River plant. "While both projects
offered substantial benefits, the Shell proposal was the most
desirable in terms of overall public interest," it said.
   Caroline is expected to have a major impact on Shell
Canada's production, cash flow and earnings. "It's an
enormously important project to Shell," said Wilf Gobert, an
analyst with Calgary-based Peters &amp; Co. The field's daily
output is expected to total about 93 million cubic feet of
natural gas, 27,000 barrels of natural gas liquids, 17,000
barrels of condensate -- a very light-gravity crude that
sells at a premium price -- and 4,000 metric tons of sulfur.
   Denis Mote, an analyst with Toronto's Maison Placements
Inc., estimates that Caroline will generate for Shell Canada
about C$143 million of additional annual cash flow and C$96
million of additional earnings. For 1990's first half, Shell
Canada had cash flow of C$289 million and earnings of just
C$58 million, on revenue of C$2.53 billion.
   Mr. Mote said the Caroline development would also help
Shell Canada develop its nearby Bearberry sour gas field more
cheaply.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First S&amp;Ls, Now Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
   ----
   By Martin Mayer
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FNM FRE
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   In the next days, we will get our first sign of whether
Congress has learned anything from its Savings and Loan
disaster. One of the peripheral items in the summit
negotiations on the budget is an effort to price the value of
the implied guarantees the government gives the federally
created mortgage packagers, the Federal National Mortgage
Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are the push-me-pull-yous of
American finance, strange creatures presumably owned by
stockholders but exempt from state and local taxes, enjoying
a statutory line of credit at the Treasury, and reporting to
boards of directors that include five presidential appointees
among their 18 members.
   The taxpayer is now stuck with half a trillion dollars or
so in liabilities for the insurance of S&amp;L deposits -- plus
God knows how much more to pay off depositors in busted banks
-- because deposit insurance was ludicrously underpriced with
reference to the risks the banks and S&amp;Ls were taking with
depositors' money. Fannie and Freddie get their guarantees
for nothing, and can leverage their investors capital at a
rate of more than 100-to-1 because the purchasers of their
debt issues know the government will pay off if the agencies
goof. "Federal ties," says the General Accounting Office,
"cause investors to behave like insured depositors who
believe their investments to be very safe."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In his "obiter dicta" to the proposed 1991 budget, Office
of Management and Budget director Richard Darman noted that
the debt of the various government sponsored enterprises
could at any time, like the obligations of the Federal
Savings &amp; Loan Insurance Corp., turn into a huge addition to
the federal budget deficit -- and urged that something be
done about it -- now. The ball was then picked up and
advanced by several congressmen, most notably Leon Panetta of
the Budget Committee (D., Calif.), J.J. Pickle of Government
Oversight (D., Texas) and Charles Schumer (D., N.Y.) of the
Banking Committee.
   In response, the two mortgage corporations -- presumably
with the approval of the presidentially appointed directors
-- launched an expensive advertising campaign that included
two-page ads to present themselves as the real reason why so
many Americans can own their homes. They also hired the best
lobbyists money can buy -- Joe Califano and Harry McPherson
for FNMA, Charls Walker for FHLMC. Fannie Mae, believe it or
not, has its own PAC, from the "voluntary contributions" of
its well-paid executives.
   The agencies also started mobilizing the troops of
bankers, mortgage bankers and investment bankers who make
money on their dealings with Fannie and Freddie. And the
troops responded with telephone calls and letters and visits
to their favorite congressman. As Salomon Bros. learned when
it led an investment banking group trying to keep for the
truly private sector the business of packaging the new
multitranche Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits
(REMICS) that Congress had authorized in 1986, Fannie's CEO
David O. Maxwell takes hostages and may kill them. For some
months, Fannie cut "Sali" out of its dealer network. As
reported in this newspaper on April 20, 1987, Fannie Mae's
CEO said Salomon had been eliminated "because of our
perception that they do not give us any indication that they
value our business very highly." This time, Sali is on
Fannie's side. You betcha.
   The administration, however, has persisted. In May, the
Treasury came up with an ingenious device to reduce the
government's risks from the $700 billion or so of paper
issues or guaranteed by Fannie and Freddie. Ask the
private-sector ratings services to rate the agencies' bonds
and pass-throughs on the assumption that there is no
government guarantee. If they can't qualify for a triple-A
rating now, make them file a "business plan" to earn such a
rating, beef up their capital and accept limits on their
growth, dividend payments and leverage ratios.
   Freddie was uncomfortable. Its chairman Leland C. Brendsel
said the idea of using ratings services "deserves more
serious attention," though the requirement of a triple-A
rating was "extreme. . . . A double-A standard would be more
reasonable." Behind the sweet talk, however, Mr. Brendsel
went around the country to the boards of the state saving and
loan leagues to say that any restrictions on the operations
of the mortgage corporations would be nails in their coffins.
(Which is, incidentally, quite untrue: It's the existence of
government-subsidized portfolio investors in mortgages --
especially Fannie Mae -- that undercuts the profit potential
of an S&amp;L.)
   Fannie went through the roof. One of its myrmidons
distributed around Congress a one-page sheet of "Reasons to
Reject OMB/Treasury Proposal." They were not trivial. Making
Fannie and Freddie earn a triple-A rating would mean
"Destruction of the Secondary Mortgage Market . . .
Additional Bank and Thrift Insolvencies; Increase in RTC
Losses . . . Rise in Mortgage Rates . . . Exacerbates
Recessionary Tendencies . . . Abdication of Governmental
Responsibility."
   Anyway, both agencies insist, their activities don't pose
any risk of loss to the government. They constantly run
"stress tests," in which awful things happen to the country
and the mortgage market and they make money anyway because
they're so well run. The Fannie "stress test" assumes nine
years of nationwide loss experience as bad as the recent
Texas loss experience, or a sudden rise of six percentage
points in interest rates, sustained for six years.
   Surely Fannie Mae cannot have it both ways. If in fact
their paper is ironclad against the most severe stress, then
the rating agencies will give them a triple-A and the market
will let them borrow for peanuts over Treasury rates without
guarantees. The few little changes that might have to be made
to achieve that result could not possibly produce the list of
horribles on Fannie's sheet of "Reasons" (which carried,
incidentally, no statement of its provenance).
   And if the list of horribles is right, then clearly the
agencies are now leaning very hard on their government
guarantees to sell their paper, which means the Treasury is
right to be demanding assurances from knowledgeablethird
parties that the taxpayer is not about to be taken to the
cleaners again. Nobody denies that the agencies are well run
today. But, after all, Mr. Maxwell came to Fannie Mae in 1981
from a private company, TICOR Mortgage Insurance, when TICOR
seemed to have been well run. A few years later, TICOR went
down in flames.
   President Reagan's Commission on Housing, of which I was a
commissioner, recommended in 1982 that federal guarantees of
Fannie and Freddie paper be phased out as part of a program
to increase loans to housing through the capital markets.
"These corporations," we said, "should not have such unfair
competitive advantages over other private institutions that
market inefficiencies develop." Thanks to the S&amp;L experience,
the focus has now changed from perfecting the mortgage market
to protecting the taxpayer, but the principle is the same.
   Freddie is still to some extent in transition from
ownership by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to private
ownership. Fannie is a full-blooded private corporation that
last year paid its CEO (in salary and stock options) about 24
times what the country paid the president of the U.S. The
government subsidy represented by the free guarantee clearly
helps to pay for that salary, and for increases in the Fannie
Mae dividend, as well as for marginal reductions in mortgage
interest rates.
   Earlier this year, Fannie promised that it would increase
its equity capital and loan loss reserves by somewhere
between $2 billion and $2.5 billion before the end of 1991.
But in mid-August, with truly breathtaking arrogance, the
agency announced a half-billion dollar buy-back program for
its stocks and warrants, reducing the equity cushion that
protects the taxpayer against possible losses. This was,
Fannie said, a "technical matter" -- i.e., we think we can
sell stock next year for more than it costs us to buy it this
year. It is hard to think of a more inappropriate use of a
government guarantee.
   If the market assigns a value to the federal guarantee of
such an institution, that value should be reflected on the
government's own books as a government expenditure. We can
structure our financial world so that pigs get free lunches,
as we did with S&amp;L regulation, but the government never gets
a free lunch. This is why the question belongs at the budget
summit, and should be resolved there. The question now is
whether the gallant band of Congressmen who have been working
with the administration can keep their nerve.
   ---
   Mr. Mayer's book about the S&amp;L disaster, "The Greatest
Ever Bank Robbery," will be published by Scribner's this
fall.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Education:
   National Test
   For Students
   Gains Support
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (EDN)
</GV>
<LP>
   A movement to create national examinations for elementary
and high school students is gaining momentum against
longstanding objections that such tests would violate state
and local rights.
   Supporters include President Bush's new Education Policy
Advisory Committee, a diverse group of educators and
businessmen that has endorsed national testing in the fourth,
eighth and 12th grades.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Advocates say children won't study harder until the
federal government -- or somebody with federal blessing --
tells their parents how they rank on a reliable test that
everyone takes. As a further motivation for students, many
proponents say, scores on the test must matter in deciding
such things as high school graduation or the kind of job a
student can get. Schools, districts and states also could be
ranked using national test data.
   National tests drive the efforts of students in countries
such as Britain, Japan and West Germany, but would represent
a radical break with U.S. traditions of local control. They
also raise the possibility of a person's educational future
and career options being decided at an early age. In an Aug.
8 background paper, the U.S. Education Department's staff
called the concept a "dramatic shift from the last two
centuries of practice in education in the U.S." that would
represent a "de facto national agreement on what should be
taught."
   Among the ideas favored by some on the president's
advisory group is a national high school graduation test. A
variation on that theme was recommended in June by the
Commission on the Skills of the American Workforce, a
foundation-funded group of education and labor leaders. The
commission proposed that all 16 year olds take a test to gain
a certificate that employers could require as a job
credential.
   "My own view is that we ought to have a strict national
test that students have to study for, much as Europeans and
Asians do," says Thomas E. Kean, a former governor of New
Jersey and a member of both the advisory and work force
groups. "A lot of us are terribly frustrated with the current
system and feel we need to do something radical to change
it."
   Paul O'Neill, chief executive officer of Aluminum Co. of
America and chairman of the presidential advisory group, says
he favors a national test because current indicators,
including report cards and scores on existing standardized
tests, give parents an overly rosy impression of students'
achievement. Says Mr. O'Neill, "The education world is full
of jargon and soft ideas, and we need to harden up."
   Mr. O'Neill and other members of the advisory group argue
that national tests are the only way to fulfill the "national
education goals" set by the president and governors in a
much-ballyhooed exercise last March. The chief goal is that
students will show "demonstrated competency in challenging
subject matter" by the year 2000 in English, history,
geography, mathematics and science.
   Other support has come from Albert Shanker, president of
the American Federation of Teachers union and a member of
both groups. In a memo to the presidential panel earlier this
month, Mr. Shanker proposed "an initial national investment
of between $200 million and $300 million to develop national
examinations."
   Many testing critics disagree with these supporters of the
movement. They counter that the country is already
over-testing students. Walt Haney, a Boston College professor
and testing specialist, says his reaction is "largely
unfavorable" to the idea of mass tests. Mr. Haney says, "When
tests on individual students are used to measure the schools,
the results can be easily corrupted" by teachers who prompt
students on test questions and give them more time to finish
items.
   It isn't yet clear what will emerge from current
proposals. Mr. O'Neill says the panel is still preparing
specific recommendations about which students would be
tested, which subjects would be treated and who would pay for
it. The Education Department, prompted by the group, also has
begun studying possibilities. Among other things, U.S.
researchers are looking at ways to report a standard national
test score that would give parents a new measure of their
children's school progress.
   At the same time, behind-the-scenes debate on monitoring
national education goals has exposed a potentially
embarrassing problem for the Bush administration.
   Education Secretary Lauro Cavazos is opposed to federal
sponsorship of a national test to monitor the goals, arguing
in a private Aug. 8 letter to Mr. O'Neill that "it would
alter two centuries of tradition" of states' education
control.
   Others in the administration have been taken aback that
the O'Neill panel, laden with conservative businessmen and
Republicans, has proposed something Mr. Kean calls "not a
very conservative idea." At a July meeting of the O'Neill
group, according to people who were there, White House
domestic-policy adviser Roger Porter exchanged angry words
with David Kearns, chairman of Xerox Corp., when Mr. Kearns
suggested the Bush administration was dragging its feet on
following through with effective monitoring of the goals.
   The Education Department's background paper, while
endorsing no particular option, suggests that the Bush
administration would accept some form of national testing, so
long as the federal government's role was limited. The paper
said alternatives to complete federal sponsorhip include a
schools' consortium similar to the ones that run college
entrance tests or a specially chartered group partly funded
by the states and federal government.
   Under its most ambitious configuration, the paper said a
national testing program would have a huge impact on schools,
and take several years to implement. More than nine million
students in three grades -- roughly six times the number that
take the Scholastic Aptitude Test -- would be tested each
year. The paper warns, however, that curriculum variety could
narrow rapidly, as students and teachers focus on subjects
covered by the exam.
   Under the only current federal examination program, the
National Assessment of Educational Progress, about 220,000
students will be tested this year. But NAEP merely measures
whether the nation's students as a whole are making progress
over the years and isn't used to measure individual students.
In its background paper, the Education Department says it
might be possible to expand NAEP into a national examination,
or to calculate a standard report to parents that would
equate state-mandated tests that students are already taking
with NAEP scores.
   Chester E. Finn Jr., chairman of the panel that runs NAEP
and also a member of the presidential panel, says he hasn't
decided whether a new test is needed. But he adds that he's
convinced parents need new information because most of them
falsely believe their children are doing well. "Right now you
can't find out how your kid or school stands vis-a-vis
national goals, and if you can't find that out, you won't
change your behavior toward your kid, and nothing is going to
change."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Royale Belge S.A.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   B.ROB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
FULL LINE INSURANCE (INF)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Royale Belge S.A., a Belgian insurer, said it
acquired the Belgian insurance operations of Groupe Le Foyer
of Luxembourg. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The operations have annual premium income of more than 2
billion Belgian francs ($63 million), mostly in automotive,
property and, to a lesser extent, life insurance, Royale
Belge said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Milwaukee's Schools Open -- to Competition
   ----
   By John H. Fund
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   MILWAUKEE -- "People outside Milwaukee have no idea how
important Sept. 4 could be for parents everywhere," says
Polly Williams, the gutsy state legislator who pushed through
the nation's first experiment in educational vouchers for
low-income children. Today, several hundred Milwaukee
children will begin attending a half-dozen or so nonsectarian
private schools, with the state of Wisconsin paying up to
$2,500 of their tuition costs. Public education in America is
about to feel the bracing winds of competition.
   Ms. Williams makes it clear that she doesn't want to
undermine the public schools, just force them to do a better
job. "This is telling public schools that if you want to keep
students, fine. Just educate them. If you can't, let's let as
many hostages out of there as possible."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Teachers unions and educrats understand exactly what Polly
Williams's modest experiment could lead to. The Milwaukee
public schools spend an average of $6,000 a year per student.
The inner-city private schools involved in the choice plan
spend barely half that, and consistently provide a better
education -- even for underachieving students from broken
homes. If the students in the choice program do well, it will
threaten the very foundations of the bureaucratic empire the
public schools have become. They will either have to change
or perish.
   Just how bad are the Milwaukee public schools? The 97,000
students in the system (70% black) have a grade point average
of 1.62 (D+). For black students the average GPA is 1.35; for
whites it's 1.98. Almost half of the public school students
drop out without graduating from high school.
   Even worse, the system has no quality controls. Not one
teacher out of 6,000 has been fired for poor teaching in at
least five years. Not one of the 1,000 teachers hired since
1985 has been denied tenure.
   "It's nearly impossible to get rid of a teacher unless he
or she is involved in a criminal act," says Robert Peters,
principal of Custer High School. A teacher who sexually
abused a female staff member was fired in 1987, but only
after 20 months, $11,000 in costs and a 13-day hearing.
   But numbers can't fully convey the problems. An
eye-opening series last year in the Milwaukee Journal put
flesh and blood on the statistics. Priscilla Ahlgren, the
newspaper's education reporter and a former teacher, spent
one week teaching English at Vincent High School, one of 271
schools nationwide recognized for excellence by the U.S.
Department of Education in 1987. Its white enrollment was
43%, one of the highest in the city.
   Ms. Ahlgren was amazed at what she found. "The first day,
my lesson plan proved irrelevant," she said in an interview.
   Her classes were small, only 15 to 25 students. Even so,
she counted it a success if she just kept order. Students
routinely talked, walked around, and combed the hair of
friends. Some didn't show up all week -- "ghost" students.
   She had entered what educators call a culture of low
expectations. "One teacher told me that my first mistake was
assigning homework," she recalls. When Ms. Ahlgren assigned
15 students to read a short story, only two did. Only seven
out of 25 in another class turned an essay in on time. Many
teachers kept their own supplies of paper and pencils, since
few students came to class prepared.
   Reading skills at Vincent High were in jeopardy. The
chairman of the English department told Ms. Ahlgren, "When
you give them a reading assignment, they're at Blockbuster
the same night to rent the video." Many teachers go with the
flow and use videos in class, assigning students only a
"sample chapter" of the work. But even this isn't enough:
"Some students refuse to watch black-and-white adaptations
and put their heads down on their desks." After Ms. Ahlgren's
series ran, Vincent High's principal commended her for
"presenting an accurate picture of our school."
   Contrast Vincent with Harambee Community School, a private
school only a short drive from Vincent, but a world apart in
atmosphere. It has 160 black students in its grades K-8
program. It stresses the development of a positive self-image
in all aspects of a child's life. Students at Harambee score
between the 75th and 80th percentile in national reading and
mathematics tests. "We don't have better students," says
Principal Callista Robinson. "We have students who are
encouraged to do their best."
   Across town from Harambee is the private Urban Day School,
which is governed by the parents whose children attend the
school. Donations and fund-raising allow Urban Day to charge
only $650 a year; some children get full scholarships.
Parents must perform 20 hours of volunteer work or pay an
extra $300.
   Zakiya Courtney, Urban Day's executive director, dismisses
arguments that educational choice can work only for parents
who already care deeply about education. "Many of our parents
are single mothers and don't know about quality education,"
she says. "We train them to care about that. They become very
motivated. If a child doesn't show up in uniform or follow
the rules, we send him home." Some 98% of Urban Day graduates
finish high school, and more than 50% go on to college.
   There are two public elementary schools within a few
blocks of Urban Day. Both were closed for the summer, but to
even a casual visitor the contrast could not be more
striking. 27th Street School has the look of a prison. Every
entrance door is made of steel; every window has heavy grates
covering it. The signs on the building tell their own story:
One orders visitors to report to the office immediately.
Another offers a $10 reward for the arrest of any "person
found climbing or damaging" the building. In a chilling
metaphor for failure, the American flag is wrapped forlornly
around a flagpole, as dirty and torn as if it had been
carried into a losing battle.
   Only a few blocks away is Brown School, closed for years
but reopened last year as a special magnet school to attract
white students into the city's busing program. A visitor is
stunned at its appearance, too, but for entirely different
reasons. Rising out of a poor, gritty neighborhood is a
modern, attractive building. Brand-new playground equipment
beckons invitingly to passing children. The signs "request"
that a visitor go first to the main office.
   As a visitor marvels at the attractive hallways glimpsed
through windows, four neighborhood black children walk by
with their mother. When asked if they go to Brown School, one
says: "Oh, no. We go to Lancaster," 30 minutes by bus to the
north. "Brown School is nice, but it's for other people," the
mother, Erica James, says. When asked if she would like her
kids to go to Brown, she replies, "Sure, but they've decided
to bus my kids to Lancaster." Does she think that's fair?
"Not really, but I don't have any say in the matter," Mrs.
James says with a shrug.
   Magnet schools like Brown are a skewed byproduct of
Milwaukee's misguided attempts to put integration ahead of
education. They offer specialized instruction and superior
teaching. However, many minority students are shut out of the
magnet schools because they would disturb their carefully
calibrated racial balance. Brown, for example, draws many of
its students from white families who drop their kids off on
the way to work in downtown Milwaukee. Unlike other public
schools, it offers pre- and after-school "program
enrichments" that amount to free day care from 7 a.m. to 6
p.m. (Milwaukee school officials did not return phone calls
about Brown.)
   George Mitchell is a Milwaukee consultant who says the
contrasts between Brown and 27th Street have turned him into
a crusader for radical education reform. In the early 1980s
he served as acting state budget chief, and in 1984
Democratic Gov. Tony Earl appointed him to chair a
blue-ribbon commission on the Milwaukee schools.
   But his real epiphany came when he moved his family from
the calm state capital of Madison to Milwaukee. As a sincere
liberal, he wanted to send his children to the city's public
schools. He first arranged a meeting to have the city's
school busing program explained to him.
   "It was complicated, but I was told my kids would have a
wide range of options, including good magnet schools," he
recalls. But as the meeting ended, Mr. Mitchell casually
mentioned that while he was white, his children, both
adopted, were Asian and black. "Suddenly, everything
changed," he said. "The fellow sighed and said that, of
course, everything would be different because my children
were nonwhite." Mr. Mitchell listened in mounting horror to
the details. "My wife and I did the only rational thing," he
says. "We moved to the suburbs."
   Howard Fuller is a black educator who is now director of
the Department of Health and Human Services in Milwaukee. He
graduated from North Division High School in 1959, and felt
he got a fine education even though his school lacked many of
the resources of suburban schools. Asked to pinpoint the most
significant change at North Division since he left, he names
athletics. "When I went there you had to have good grades to
be on a team. Now you have kids who barely have a D average
playing. When parents asked for a minimum C average to play,
they were roundly criticized by the coaches for demanding the
impossible."
   Mikel Holt, editor of the largest black newspaper in the
state, graduated from North Division 10 years after Mr.
Fuller. He says he too got a good education, but that changed
for students in the 1970s. "The reason is desegregation, to
some extent," he says. "That and the teachers unions got much
more powerful. Schools lost their autonomy."
   Teachers union members may have won the battle for control
of the public schools, but they are conscientious objectors
when it comes to sending their kids to them. A 1987
University of Wisconsin survey found that 62% of Milwaukee
teachers wouldn't want their children to attend the school at
which they teach. It's no wonder then that nearly half of the
children of Milwaukee's public school teachers attend private
schools, double the average for all school-age children. Few
send their children to non-magnet public schools.
   Polly Williams says there is a simpler method than choice
to force Milwaukee schools to improve. She thinks it's time
that teachers and administrators fully experience the system
they have created. She is about to introduce legislation
requiring everyone who works in the public schools to send
their children to neighborhood public schools. "We already
make police officers and teachers live in the city they work
in," she says. "Why shouldn't teachers have a more direct
stake in the schools they teach in?"
   If Ms. Williams is surprised at the backlash her
educational choice program has generated, she should just
wait until the school bureaucracy hears about her latest
idea.
   ---
   Mr. Fund is a Journal editorial writer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Plan to Overhaul Soviet Economy Is Unveiled,
   Throwing Premier's Political Future Into Doubt
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- Earlier this year, the wife of Soviet Prime
Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov told an interviewer that being prime
minister is not something her husband wants to do forever. As
a realist, he understands he will have to step down "sooner
or later," she said.
   Now, it looks like sooner is arriving. After more than a
year of patiently preparing and revising plans to overhaul
the Soviet economy, Mr. Ryzhkov's political future has been
thrown into doubt by two of the pushiest people in Soviet
politics, President Mikhail Gorbachev and Boris Yeltsin, the
head of the Russian republic.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Frustrated by the prime minister's timid approach to
economic reform, the two men seem on the verge of jettisoning
most of the Ryzhkov proposals in favor of a more radical plan
worked out by their own advisers. Known as the Shatalin plan,
after Stanislav Shatalin, an economist close to Mr. Gorbachev
who drafted it in less than one month, it seeks to halt the
Soviet economy's slide over the next six months and then
introduce sweeping measures such as large-scale privatization
to establish a market economy.
   The plan was presented to a meeting of Soviet leaders
Friday, and will be examined this week by the nation's 15
constituent republics. Depending on their verdict, the
package will be submitted for approval to the national
Parliament as early as next week.
   In public, Mr. Gorbachev still defends his prime minister
and holds out hope that elements of the Shatalin and Ryzhkov
plans can be fused into one coherent whole. But he conceded
at a news conference that it will be hard to bridge the huge
differences between the two plans, which are at odds over
such key areas as prices, taxes, the budget and the measures
needed to stabilize the economy.
   Mr. Yeltsin is more blunt. Over the weekend he called for
the resignation of Mr. Ryzhkov and his government, saying
that this was a key condition for the successful
implementation of economic reform. "You cannot mate a
hedgehog and a snake," Mr. Yeltsin told journalists. "You
cannot mix the Shatalin plan and the program drawn up by the
union government."
   Judging by details of the two programs announced yesterday
by Ivan Silayev, the Russian Prime Minister, Mr. Yeltsin's
contention seems correct. Mr. Silayev told the Russian
Parliament that the Shatalin plan would immediately hand over
management of the economy to the nation's constituent
republics, who would themselves decide which powers to cede
to union authorities. One result would be the liquidation of
almost all Soviet ministries next year, Mr. Silayev said. Mr.
Ryzhkov, on the other hand, would keep the present
centralized structure more or less intact until a new union
treaty was signed sometime in the future.
   On the key question of reforming the Soviet price system,
Mr. Shatalin's plan foresees freezing the prices of basic
necessities and allowing all other prices to begin floating
freely, set by supply and demand. Mr. Ryzhkov, however, wants
to continue the system of government-fixed prices, raising
them substantially to reduce the budget deficit. Only in 1992
would he start allowing some prices to float freely.
   Mr. Silayev clearly endorsed the Shatalin plan, which he
helped to draft. Most other republics are considered likely
to follow suit.
   Mr. Ryzhkov thus finds himself faced with a bleak choice:
either he resigns or is fired, or else he must introduce and
implement an economic reform that bears scant resemblance to
his own proposals. The betting in Moscow is that he will try
to salvage some personal dignity by stepping down.
   A smooth technocrat from the Ural mountains, Mr. Ryzhkov
became prime minister in September 1985 after a long career
in industry, working his way up from a lowly engineer, to
managing director, to politician. His background in industry
and his work with the State Planning Committee has left him
with a continuing belief in the virtues of central planning,
and he appears only lukewarm about the idea of a market
economy -- a halfheartedness that is now costing him dear.
   Lacking the charisma of Mr. Gorbachev, he was constantly
overshadowed by his boss until the Armenian earthquake in
December 1988. He immediately rushed to the site to organize
rescue operations, and frequently was shown on TV comforting
the survivors. At the time, one Soviet commentator remarked
that many had thought him soft and irresolute. But in the
aftermath of the earthquake, "the world then saw another
man," the commentator said. "The mask of reservation fell to
reveal frankness and undisguised passionate pity."
   During his five years as prime minister, he has reduced
sharply the number of government ministries and actively
promoted joint ventures with Western companies, personally
meeting and encouraging dozens of foreign businessmen. But he
has faced growing public criticism over his handling of the
Soviet economy, his main task.
   The criticism started in earnest last December, when he
presented Parliament with a traditional economic package for
the coming five years. It ignored the advice of his own more
radical advisers and relied heavily on continued economic
management by Moscow bureaucrats. The rapid deterioration of
the economy and growing shortages of basic goods soon
increased the pressure for more sweeping change. Mr.
Gorbachev this year ordered a revision, calling for the
introduction of a full-fledged market economy.
   Mr. Ryzhkov struggled in vain to comply. The new plans he
outlined in May provoked only anger and criticism. His
attempt to raise prices of many consumer goods sparked
panic-buying throughout the nation, and was later termed
"absurd" by Mr. Gorbachev himself. Radical economists
complained that the plans weren't market-oriented, and the
Soviet Parliament told him to revise the proposals by this
month.
   The prime minister is irked by the criticism. "I can't say
that I'm getting used to it," he told the Sovietskaya Rossiya
daily this year. "I've never been weak, but I've never been a
petty tyrant either."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Data Sciences Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   CODSE ARILE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RAW AND FINISHED PAPER PRODUCTS (PAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Corporate Data Sciences Inc. said it
completed the sale of its subsidiaries, Medallion Kitchens of
Minnesota Inc. and Medallion Kitchens Inc., to Aril Group
Inc.
   In exchange for the units, Corporate Data received 16.9
million Aril common shares, boosting Corporate Data's stake
in the holding company to 72%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Corporate Data has said it plans to spin off its Aril
stake to its own shareholders. Following the spinoff,
Corporate Data said it intends to continue a restructuring of
the company through the merger of its 90%-owned Consolidated
Packaging Corp. into Corporate Data.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Men and Smart Magazines
   To Become Smart: for Men
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Scratch one men's magazine.
   Men, a magazine that was supposed to launch in early 1991,
will instead merge with Smart, a men's magazine published by
New American Magazine Co. Smart, which is 18 months old, will
carry a new, extended title -- Smart: for Men.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Peter Kaplan, the editor who had helped develop Men for
Fairfield, Conn.-based Norris Publishing, will be the new
editor in chief of Smart. The men's general-interest magazine
recently lost its founding editor Terry McDonell when he was
named editor of Hearst Corp.'s Esquire.
   Owen Lipstein, chairman of New American Magazine Co., said
Christopher Kimball, one of the founders of Norris
Publishing, will become publishing director of New American
Magazine Co. Besides Smart, Mr. Lipstein's New York-based
company also publishes Mother Earth News and Psychology
Today.
   Mr. Lipstein wouldn't say what he paid to acquire Men; he
did say that many of Mr. Kaplan's ideas for his magazine
would be incorporated into Smart.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Italy's Chief Market Regulator
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MILAN, Italy -- Bruno Pazzi, 78 years old, was appointed
president of Consob, Italy's stock-market regulatory agency,
filling the vacancy left when Franco Piga was appointed
minister of state industry in July.
   Mr. Pazzi, who was appointed a Consob commissioner in
1978, was already serving as acting president following Mr.
Piga's departure. Before joining Consob, Mr. Pazzi held
several positions in Italy's beverage and distilling
industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Janet Holmes a Court Plans to Assume
   Control of Late Husband's Businesses
   ----
   By S. Karene Witcher
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   SYDNEY, Australia -- Janet Holmes a Court plans to assume
control of the Australian family's international corporate
interests following the unexpected death of her husband,
Robert Holmes a Court.
   The 53-year-old Australian businessman, who died of a
heart attack Sunday at his horse farm near Perth, was widely
known for his audacious takeover raids.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A statement issued on behalf of the family and the private
company that Mr. Holmes a Court founded and headed,
Heytesbury Holdings Ltd., said that Mrs. Holmes a Court
"would take control of the company with the close assistance
of her eldest son, {21-year-old} Peter, and senior managers."
Mrs. Holmes a Court is deputy chairman of Heytesbury and has
been "closely involved in the day-to-day running" of the
company for many years, the statement said.
   The family members also signaled that they intend to
pursue the business strategy that Mr. Holmes a Court mapped.
"The business units within the Heytesbury organization {will}
continue to develop and grow in the way the late chairman
would have wished," said Jon Elbery, Heytesbury's general
manager.
   Heytesbury is the largest private land owner in Australia
and has interests in some small newspapers in Western
Australia. Mr. Holmes a Court's companies also have stakes in
various corporations around the world, including a 6% stake
in the Really Useful Group PLC, a British entertainment
vehicle controlled by composer Andrew Lloyd Webber. Earlier
this year, Mr. Holmes a Court's strategic shareholding
thwarted a move by Mr. Webber to take the company private.
Through a joint venture with Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine
of France, Mr. Holmes a Court's companies control about 5% of
Dalgety PLC, a British food and commodity group.
   At his death, though, Mr. Holmes a Court's corporate
empire was a shadow of its former self after being ravaged in
the October 1987 stock-market crash. In its heyday, his
publicly listed company, Bell Group Ltd., and its Bell
Resources Ltd. unit controlled about six billion Australian
dollars (US$4.91 billion) in assets. And for a while, the
South African-born lawyer turned corporate raider struck
terror in boardrooms around the world, earning a reputation
for toughness and cunning.
   At home, he made several takeover tilts at Broken Hill
Proprietary Co., a mining, oil and steel concern that is
Australia's largest company. In the U.S., he threatened to
take over Asarco Inc., a New York mining and smelting company
with Australian interests. Then he built a stake in USX
Corp., the large steel concern. But his splashiest play was
to amass a stake of nearly 10% in Texaco Inc., the U.S. oil
giant, at a cost of nearly US$1 billion. All those various
stakes have since been sold.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Holmes a Court became one of Australia's
first billionaires. But his corporate empire relied on
borrowed funds and it began to unravel in the months
following the stock-market crash as investors withdrew credit
lines. He bowed out of the public spotlight by selling his
Bell Group interests in 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford, Citing Soft Demand,
   To Idle 2 Plants for a Week
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DEARBORN, Mich. -- Ford Motor Co., citing soft demand,
said it will halt production for a week at its Kansas City,
Mo., car plant and its medium and heavy-duty truck assembly
facility in Louisville, Ky.
   A total of 4,200 workers will be laid off at the two
plants during the week of Sept. 10, the auto maker said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Kansas City plant is building 1991 versions of the
Ford Tempo and Mercury Topaz compact models. Dealers have a
relatively lean 54 to 55 days of inventories of these cars.
But Ford said dealers aren't ordering enough 1991 models to
sustain the planned production, an indication that dealers
are skittish about a possible sales slump this fall. The
plant has about 2,300 hourly employees who build about 4,000
cars a week.
   The truck plant, with about 1,900 hourly workers, produces
about 1,100 vehicles a week, Ford said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Dennis Weatherstone, chairman of J.P. Morgan, testifying
on June 28 to the House subcommittee on financial
institutions:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Today, sophisticated users of funds search the globe to
find the most efficient way to finance their business. One
day the Eurobond market might offer the best opportunity;
another day the syndicated loan market; still another day a
securities issue in the U.S. capital markets might be most
attractive. . . . These financial products are now so closely
related that in the real world they cannot be separated. No
one in the markets, and no client, treats them as distinct --
except when forced by U.S. law to do so.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   HINT HWKF PARK VITL
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The American Stock Exchange and the National
Market System of the over-the-counter market each added two
new stock listings.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Joining the Amex on Thursday is Henley International Inc.,
a Sugar Land, Texas, provider of products for physical
therapy and other uses, joins the Amex Friday under the
symbol HEN.
                                                                                                       

   H.W. Kaufman Financial Group Inc., a Southfield, Mich.,
property and casualty insurer, under the symbol HWK.
   Kaufman and Henley both previously traded over the
counter.
                                                                                                       

   On the OTC market, Park National Corp., a Newark, Ohio,
bank holding company, began trading under PARK.
                                                                                                       

   Vital Signs Inc., a Totowa, N.J., maker of medical
products, is added to the listings under the symbol VITL.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Interfinance Credit National (French parent) -- 600
million French francs of 12.25% Eurobonds due Dec. 10, 1991,
priced at 100.775, for equivalent annualized yield of 10.63%,
via lead underwriter Credit Commercial de France.
   Seikitokyu Kogyo Co. (Japan) -- 100 million Swiss francs
of privately placed convertible notes due Sept. 30, 1995,
fixed 4 1/2% coupon, priced at par, via Swiss Volksbank. Put
option March 31, 1993 at fixed 110.25 to yield 8.22%.. Each
50,000 Swiss franc convertible from Oct. 10, 1990 to Sept.
20, 1995.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Schools and Tax Dollars
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   Even as the school-choice revolution gains force across
the nation, the education establishment is asserting its
power in the battle for public funds. This lobby has emerged
clearly as the No. 1 adversary of the American taxpayer.
   Nowhere is this more clear than in California. Thanks to a
1988 ballot-initiative, the state constitution now sets aside
better than 40% of tax dollars for the schools. Each year's
expenditures become a formal base for the following year's
increase. This is mostly regardless of fiscal emergencies or
economic hardship. Result: As California schools get more
money per pupil than ever and as its teachers rank behind
only Alaska's in pay, other programs (and taxpayers) get
squeezed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gov. George Deukmejian has battled the education cartel
and its leader, State Superintendent Bill Honig, for nearly
eight years. In signing his last budget as chief executive,
Mr. Deukmejian did what he could, blue-penciling millions of
dollars from Mr. Honig's departmental budget. The schoolman
is pushing to override the line-item vetoes.
   Public education's managers have had a good political ride
of it. Despite increased difficulty in recent decades in
getting local school-tax measures passed, they have found
statewide elections more to their liking. As with the 1988
item in California, the costs can be better hidden or shifted
onto somebody else. Arizona and Nevada have such measures on
the ballot this November. It took a determined Michigan
Chamber of Commerce to defeat special school taxes there last
year.
   Washington state may be headed for a similar vote.
Teachers there last month picketed the governor, wanting a
raise in their average $33,000 nine-month pay instead of the
performance-based compensation he favors. The head of the
state teachers' union suggested curbing business-tax
deductions to spring for the boost.
   Sustained teacher walkouts, such as in West Virginia and
Oklahoma the past year, achieved their aim. And with teacher
salaries having declined to about 40% of U.S. school
operating budgets, griping about central-office bureaucracy
surely is merited.
   The truth always is that some teachers aren't paid nearly
enough, whereas others are overpaid with their first dollar.
Parental-choice mechanisms help to distinguish between them,
and between administrators. But unions prefer
across-the-board raises. And state legislatures can be soft
touches for the schools, because Republicans from
middle-class districts are as eager to wangle funds as the
Democrats from central cities, whose classrooms are allowed
to get worse no matter how much is spent. (The bout of
redistributionist "equalization" now gripping New Jersey is
the latest of such court-aided efforts to make dollar signs
the focal point of saving schools in poorer areas.)
   The National Education Association, the big teachers'
union, last month asked for a $2.2 billion Operation Jump
Start program by which a third of the country's
elementary-grade students would begin their school terms two
weeks early to play catch up. Somehow this is supposed to
compensate for the lapses in instruction and parenting from
which they suffer the rest of the year. The NEA also said the
public schools should be the primary provider of day care,
meals and health-screening for preschool, kindergarten and
elementary pupils. Potty training, too, probably, as the
teachers' unions strive for more market share of available
tax dollars at all levels of government.
   It's not all offense for the school spenders these days.
Increasingly, as in California, they must defend their take
against those who would limit the public sector. In Oregon, a
firefight has broken out over a property-tax limit to be
decided in November. (The state branch of the NEA is
especially besieged because an educationalchoice measure is
on the same ballot.) Around the country in this active year
of citizen tax resistance, it's the same thing. John Keast,
who tracks such matters for the Free Congress Foundation,
reports that in every state considering a spending or tax
limit, the school lobby is the primary foe of these control
efforts.
   True enough, schools have had more burdens imposed on them
by a deterioration in home life, and some of them (including
those in Mr. Honig's California, to be fair) have managed to
raise test scores in the past few years. Overall, however,
the nation has paid dearly only to remain at risk of
educational implosion. Money won't help without some kind of
market to allocate it, without more competition to weed out
failed administrators and teachers, and without more
accountability to the people who have to pay the taxes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Singapore June Trade Deficit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -- Singapore's trade deficit
widened 32% in June to 1.46 billion Singapore dollars
(US$829.9 million) from S$1.08 billion (US$610 million) in
May and grew 92% from S$761 million in June 1989.
   The June data, released later than expected, confirmed
economists' projections of weakening exports. Exports fell
1.6% in the month to S$7.62 billion from S$7.74 billion in
May, while imports rose 3% to S$9.08 billion from S$8.82
billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Compared with their levels in June 1989, export values
grew 3.9%, while imports surged 12.2%. The figures are all
reported in nominal terms.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Gallup Survey: Moms Say
   `No Way' to Cloth Diapers
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CONSUMER AND HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS (HPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Mothers will recycle newspapers or car pool to
help the environment, but ask them to do without disposable
diapers and most say, "No way."
   That's according to a Gallup Organization survey of more
than 800 mothers with children three years of age or younger.
The survey was conducted at the request of the Diaper
Manufacturers group of the American Paper Institute, a trade
group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The survey, conducted in June, found that only one in four
mothers was willing to switch to cloth diapers to help
improve the environment, though nearly three of four would
recycle newspapers, and about 45% would car pool or build a
backyard compost pile to dispose of trash.
   Gallup said most mothers cited health reasons for using
disposable diapers. Tops on their list were: Disposable
diapers prevent leakage (85% of respondents), keeps baby's
skin drier (83%) and helps prevent spread of germs and
disease (62%).
   The findings didn't go over well with the National
Association of Diaper Services, proponents of cloth diapers.
According to the association, the cloth-diaper business has
been growing at an annual rate of 38.5%. "Somebody must be
changing," said John Shiffert, the association's executive
director.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Daily News Unions
   To Ask Advertisers
   To Boycott Paper
   ----
   Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   TRB LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- New York newspaper unions, locked in difficult
negotiations with Tribune Co.'s Daily News, will ask
advertisers today to boycott the newspaper.
   In a related development, the 10 unions are preparing a
citywide outdoor advertising campaign, using billboards and
city buses to attack what they say is the "anti-labor" stance
of Daily News management. The ad campaign is to begin next
week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The call for an advertiser boycott against the tabloid
follows months of rancor at the bargaining table. The paper's
10 unions, representing about 2,800 employees, have been
working without contracts since March 30. Little progress has
been made, and tensions have escalated.
   The unions have publicly ridiculed Daily News Publisher
James Hoge, while Tribune Co. has prepared extensive
contingency plans in case of a strike, with replacement staff
from pressmen to reporters ready to step in.
   The unions have prepared, too, sending out two letters in
recent months to 75 top Daily News advertisers, asking them
to suspend advertising in the paper when they are asked. A
recent letter said that "we will be boycotting to force the
Daily News to abandon its anti-labor strategy."
   Large advertisers that ignore the boycott could feel the
wrath of the unions, said Deborah Friedman, vice president of
Kamber Group, a public relations firm that represents the
unions. Uncooperative advertisers will be targeted by union
members, who will pass out leaflets outside their stores
"telling people what the store is doing to hurt working
people," she said. "Hopefully it won't get to that point."
   John Sloan, Daily News vice president, called the boycott
"a pathetic attempt at disinformation and diversion. It's a
misguided campaign of intimidation and threats and coercion
against our advertisers."
   The Daily News has taken its own steps. After five of the
unions authorized strike votes, it advertised last spring for
replacement workers, attracting at least 15,000 applicants.
   It's unclear how successful the boycott will be, but if it
works, it will worsen an already difficult year at the
newspaper. The Daily News, like other major metropolitan
newspapers, is struggling with steady declines in local ad
linage. In the first half of 1990, Daily News full-run ad
linage fell 14%. The poor advertising market and costs
related to labor strife have led analysts to predict the
Daily News could have a loss of as much as $45 million this
year on revenue of more than $400 million.
   "The unions are directing their efforts toward business
people who have the same objectives that we have: to run an
efficient operation," Mr. Sloan said. "It's doomed to fail."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<LP>
   STOCK MUTUAL FUNDS lost an estimated $1.8 billion in
assets in August, mainly because of investors' switching to
other funds. If the estimate proves correct, the loss would
be the worst since February 1989. The historical comparison
was misstated in the headline of an article in Friday's
edition.
   (See: "Mutual Funds: Stock Fund Sales Collapse, Marking
Most Dismal Month Since 1987 Crash" -- WSJ Aug. 31, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   HONDA MOTOR Co. planned to build 8,710 cars in the U.S.
last week. An incorrect production estimate appeared in
Friday's edition.
   (See: "Major U.S. Makers Planned to Assemble 2% More Cars
in Week" -- WSJ Aug. 31, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PEOPLE PATTERNS -- 1990 Census
   ----
   By Martha Farnsworth Riche,
   national editor of American Demographics magazine
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   Safety Nets in Place
   To Catch the Uncounted
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ONCE preliminary data from the 1990 census are subjected
to a series of crosschecks and comparisons with public
records, any shortfall in the numbers will be largely
corrected, the Census Bureau says.
   Now that the census is computerized, the count can be
compared with birth, death and other records to assess its
accuracy. These comparisons show that past censuses missed
minority men in poor central-city neighborhoods.
   Census Bureau officials say they have enough safety nets
in place to catch the people who fell through the broad mesh
of this year's mail questionnaire and personal follow-up
calls. One is a detailed review by local officials currently
under way against local records such as utility hookups.
Another is a series of computerized checks of completed
census forms. Statistician Clifford Clogg of Pennsylvania
State University told a recent congressional hearing, "In my
judgment, our Census Bureau is the world leader on such
technology for checking data."
   Mr. Clogg and other statisticians who participated in the
annual meeting of the American Statistical Association last
month said they are satisfied with the census procedures.
These include a check provided by a nationwide sample survey
just drawing to a close. This survey would provide numbers to
adjust the final counts statistically, as several large
cities and states have requested.
   Next July 15, the secretary of commerce will announce his
decision for or against such an adjustment. Given the
criteria his office has developed, many experts say a
negative decision is inevitable. That will send the cities
and states back to court and delay the release of detailed
census data. Meanwhile, the broad, presumably final counts
that the bureau will deliver for reapportionment to Congress
by Dec. 31 will carry a warning that they are subject to
adjustment.
                                                                                                       

   Figures Confirm Trends
   In Migratory Patterns
                                                                                                       

   BEFORE Washington considers the census numbers final, the
tally will rise. But in some places, it's already plenty
high.
   The preliminary census figures confirm the diagonal
movement of Americans from North and East to South and West.
The winners get political power in the form of more seats in
Congress. California alone will gain seven seats, giving it
52. New York, now barely the second largest state, will
probably drop to 31 seats, according to the Washington, D.C.,
consulting firm Election Data Services.
   But California, now home to nearly one in eight Americans,
isn't crowing. Its water and road systems are already
strained by population growth. Even laissez faire Los Angeles
has a corps of water police this summer, watching for signs
of illicit lawn watering. So, many Californians wonder when
the migration will end.
   The answer appears to be: not anytime soon. Nearly 60% of
California's growth in the 1980s came from migration, double
the national rate, Census Bureau estimates show.
   Much of this migration comes from abroad. Justice
Department figures show California is by far the preferred
destination of immigrants. The state has a built-in magnet in
its large Hispanic and Asian-American populations. Immigrants
generally go where their fellow countrymen have gone before
them.
   No matter how bad its water or air problems, California
will still attract migrants so long as opportunities there
outweigh opportunities elsewhere. It may not be the paradise
it used to be, but it will have to become a purgatory before
potential migrants decide to stay home.
                                                                                                       

   Businesses May Find
   Limited Use for Data
                                                                                                       

   DETAILED census data probably will be delayed by the
adjustment-for-undercount debate. This delay will limit the
usefulness of the 1990 census for business.
   Even if the current schedule is met, tabulations linking
demographics and dollars by neighborhood won't be available
until 1992. And unlike wines, data for business use don't
improve with age.
   Moreover, users are beginning to question just how
accurate the detailed data will be. New York City demographer
Evelyn Mann says the emergency procedures the Census Bureau
used to boost its response rate "thinned" the sample of
households that filled out the detailed questionnaire. One in
eight households was supposed to fill out the longer
questionnaire in neighborhoods that contained 2,000 or more
housing units, one in six households elsewhere.
   But the emergency procedures, such as taking the census
over telephone hot lines, or getting information from
neighbors about housing units that didn't respond to repeated
calls, limited the number of units in the long-form sample.
Ms. Mann says the data will be biased toward those who
cooperated with the census -- namely older, better-educated
Americans.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   THE COST of counting each housing unit in 1980 dollars
rose from $5 in 1950 to $12 in 1980, and will reach an
estimated $17 in 1990, according to the General Accounting
Office. . . . General Motors marketing executive Vincent
Barraba, who directed the 1980 census, recently said, "The
ultimate indignity was being sued by the city of New York for
incompetence and inefficiency."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Martin Marietta Pays Out
   $2,565,377 to Settle Case
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   ML
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Martin Marietta Corp. paid an additional
$2,565,377 to settle civil charges that its Martin Marietta
Electronics &amp; Missiles Group overcharged the government for
use of computer facilities, the Justice Department said.
   The company earlier had paid $898,000 to settle part of
the case, which began when the company voluntarily disclosed
the problem in September 1986. The Justice Department said an
investigation by the Defense Criminal Investigative Service
found that the Martin Marietta unit provided inflated cost
data and as a result received more money than it should have.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The unit had disclosed that it overcharged the government
for use of its Technical Computation Center, and has
cooperated with the investigation, the Justice Department
said. Since disclosing the problem, Martin Marietta has taken
corrective actions, including dismissing employees who were
found responsible, improving reporting and billing
procedures, and increasing its training and internal audits,
a company spokesman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   California Grape Dealers
   Under U.S. Investigation
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   SACRAMENTO, Calif. -- There are grapes, and then there are
grapes.
   And according to the U.S. government, grape dealers better
know the differences among varieties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To make its point, a U.S. attorney in California indicted
Michael Licciardi of Stockton, Calif., for misrepresenting to
two wineries at least 1,600 tons of "relatively common
grapes" as expensive Zinfandel grapes. The indictment, which
alleges 11 felony crimes, charges that about 300,000 gallons
of wine was produced from these grapes with a value of about
$6 million.
   David F. Levi, a U.S. attorney, said the indictment was
the second in a "continuing investigation . . . of fraud in
the California wine industry." A similar indictment was filed
last month against two Escalon, Calif., grape dealers for
misrepresenting about 6,500 tons of grapes to California
wineries.
   Mr. Licciardi could not be reached for comment. If
convicted of all charges, he faces up to 55 years in prison
and as much as $2,750,000 in fines, according to the U.S.
Justice Department.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Redemption Notices
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   BBD.A LPL+ SPC DQE
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following is a listing of securities called for
partial or complete redemption during the week ended Aug. 31,
1990. The notices are taken from advertisements appearing in
editions of The Wall Street Journal, and are not meant to be
definitive. Inquiries regarding specific issues should be
directed to the paying agent or, if none is listed, the
issuer.
                                                                                                       

                        MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ANAHEIM, CALIF., will call for early redemption electric
revenue bonds, 1980 issue, due Oct. 1, 1991-1995, on Oct. 1,
1990. Bank of America, Los Angeles and San Francisco, is
paying agent.
   APPOMATTOX RIVER WATER AUTHORITY will call $700,000
principal amount of 1964 series 3.80% water revenue bonds due
Oct. 1, 2004 on Oct. 1, 1990. Crestar Bank, Richmond, Va., is
trustee.
   BREVARD COUNTY, FLA., HOUSING FINANCE AUTHORITY will
redeem $1,530,000 principal amount of single-family mortgage
revenue bonds, series 1980A, due Oct. 1, 1991-1994, 2003 and
2012, on Oct. 1, 1990. Barnett Banks Trust Co., Jacksonville,
Fla., and Citibank, New York, are redemption agents.
   CASSVILLE, MO., will call on Oct. 1, 1990, $145,000 of
industrial revenue bonds, series 1974, Fasco Industries
project, due Oct. 1, 1994. Mercantile Bank of St. Louis is
paying agent.
   CHAMBERLAIN, S.D., will recall $2,260,000 of hospital
revenue bonds, Mid-Dakota Hospital Association project,
series 1980A, due Oct. 1, 1991-1995, 2001 and 2006 on Oct. 1,
1990. Norwest Bank Minnesota, Minneapolis, is paying agent.
   CHATTANOOGA, TENN., INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD will call
on Oct. 1, 1990, $190,000 of facilities revenue bonds,
Franklin L. Haney Co. project, 1979 series, due Oct. 1, 1999
and 2009. Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, is paying agent.
   CORONA-NORCO UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT will, on Oct. 1,
1990, call $70,000 of 8% bonds maturing Oct. 1, 2012.
Security Pacific National Bank, Los Angeles and Glendale,
Calif., is paying agent.
   DADE COUNTY, FLA., EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES AUTHORITY will
call series 1978 revenue bonds, University of Miami issue,
due April 1, 1996, on Oct. 1, 1990. Barnett Banks Trust Co.,
Jacksonville, Fla., is paying agent.
   ELDON, MO., is calling on Oct. 1, 1990, $125,000 series
1974 industrial revenue bonds, Fasco Industries Inc. project,
due Oct. 1, 1994. Mercantile Bank of St. Louis is trustee.
   FAIRFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY, Solano County, Calif.,
will recall all of its tax allocation bonds, series 1982A,
Highway 12 redevelopment project, due Oct. 1, 1991-1998 and
2012, on Oct. 1, 1990. Bank of America, San Francisco, is
trustee.
   GAS CITY, IND., will redeem 10.375% economic development
first mortgage revenue bonds series A 1980, due April 1,
2006, on Oct. 1, 1990. Bank One, Indianapolis, is trustee.
   GREATER OHIO HOUSING ASSISTANCE CORP. will call series
1982 O revenue bonds, FHA-insured mortgage loan -- Springhill
Homes section 8-assisted project, and series 1983 A, West
Park Senior Center section 8-assisted project, due April 1,
2006, on Oct. 1, 1990. Ameritrust, Cleveland and Dallas, is
paying agent.
   JACKSONVILLE, FLA., ELECTRIC AUTHORITY will redeem issue
one, series one revenue bonds, St. Johns River Power Park
System, due Oct. 1, 1994, 1996 and 2013, on Oct. 1, 1990. Sun
Bank/North Florida, Jacksonville, is paying agent.
   KANSAS TURNPIKE AUTHORITY will recall on Oct. 1, 1990, 3
3/8% turnpike revenue bonds due Oct. 1, 1994. Morgan Guaranty
Trust Co., New York, Fourth National Bank &amp; Trust, Wichita,
First National Bank of Topeka, Kan., and First National Bank
of Chicago are redemption agents.
   LONG BRANCH, N.J., HOUSING FINANCE CORP. will call $70,000
of series 8-assisted housing revenue bonds, Washington Manor
Associates Ltd. -- 1980 Elderly Project, on Oct. 1, 1990.
First Fidelity Bank, Newark, N.J., and Fidelity Bank,
Philadelphia, are redemption agents.
   LOUISIANA PUBLIC FACILITIES AUTHORITY will redeem $485,000
of 9.375% hospital revenue bonds, Lafayette General Hospital
Project, series 1980, due Oct. 1, 1993, on Oct. 1, 1990.
Hancock Bank of Louisiana, Baton Rouge, is trustee.
   MASSACHUSETTS HOME MORTGAGE FINANCE AGENCY will recall
mortgage participation bonds, series 1980 A, due July 1,
1991-1995, 1998, and 2012 on Oct. 1, 1990. Also series 1979 A
bonds, due July 1, 1991-1999 and 2010. Bank of New England,
Boston, is trustee.
   MASSACHUSETTS HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY is calling for
partial redemption the following issues on Oct. 1, 1990:
single-family mortgage purchase bonds 1982 series A, and 1983
series A, B, C and D. Shawmut Bank, Boston, Hartford and New
York, is paying agent.
   MILWAUKEE, WIS., will call on Oct. 1, 1990, $200,000
principal amount of resource recovery revenue bonds, series
1977 American Can Co. project, due Oct. 1, 2007. M&amp;I First
National Bank, West Bend, Wis., is paying agent.
   MONTREAL, QUEBEC, SCHOOL COUNCIL will recall 11% sinking
fund debentures due Oct. 1, 1994, and 6 3/4% Catholic School
Commission sinking fund debentures due Oct. 1, 1992, on Oct.
1, 1990. Bank of Montreal, New York, is paying agent.
   MONTREAL URBAN COMMUNITY will, on Oct. 1, 1990, redeem
$386,000 of 10.875% sinking fund debentures due Oct. 1, 2000.
Bank of Montreal, New York, is paying agent.
   MUSKOGEE COUNTY, OKLA., HOME FINANCE AUTHORITY will call
$700,000 principal amount of 1980 series A single-family
mortgage revenue bonds due 1991-1997, and 2012, on Oct. 1,
1990. Commercial Bank &amp; Trust Co., Muskogee, Okla., is paying
agent.
   NASSAU COUNTY, FLA., HOUSING FINANCE AUTHORITY will call
$165,000 of single-family mortgage revenue bonds, 1980 series
A, due Oct. 1, 1995, 2000 and 2012 on Oct. 1, 1990. Barnett
Banks Trust Co., Jacksonville, Fla., is trustee.
   NEW CARLISLE, IND., will call series 1983 economic
development first mortgage gross revenue bonds, Miller's
Merry Manor Inc. project, on Oct. 1, 1990. Bank One,
Indianapolis, is paying agent.
   NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY will call
$35,000 principal amount of 13% revenue bonds, series 1982,
Mount Laurel Medial Building Associates project, due Oct. 1,
2007, on Oct. 1, 1990. Midlantic National Bank, Edison, N.J.,
is redemption agent. Also, $45,000 of 12% first mortgage
gross revenue bonds, Stone Arch Nursing Home project, due
Oct. 1, 2010, will be called on Oct. 1, 1990. Fidelity Bank,
Philadelphia, Marine Midland Bank, New York, and First
Fidelity Bank, Newark, N.J., are paying agents. OHIO will
redeem on Oct. 1, 1990, all of its water development revenue
bonds, 6% series 1977 and 1978, due March 1, 1997. National
City Bank, Cleveland, is trustee.
   ONEIDA COUNTY, N.Y., INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY, will
call 6 3/4% series 1972 A revenue bonds due Oct. 1, 1992,
Carl's Drug project, on Oct. 1, 1990. Marine Midland Bank,
New York, is paying agent.
   PORTAGE, IND., SEWAGE WORKS will call series 1970 revenue
bonds on Oct. 1, 1990. Bank One, Indianapolis, is trustee.
   PUERTO RICO URBAN RENEWAL AND HOUSING CORP. will redeem 4
1/2% special obligation bonds, series A, due Oct. 1, 1992, on
Oct. 1, 1990. Chemical Bank, New York, is redemption agent.
   RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIF., JUVENILE FACILITIES CORP. will
call leasehold mortgage bonds, 1980 issue, due Oct. 1,
1991-1993, on Oct. 1, 1990. First Interstate Bank, Los
Angeles and Calabasas, Calif., is paying agent.
   ROCKPORT, IND., will recall on Oct. 1, 1990, economic
development first mortgage gross revenue bonds, series 1983,
Miller's Merry Manor Inc. project. Bank One, Indianapolis, is
trustee.
   SEDGEWICK COUNTY, KANSAS, will redeem on Oct. 1, 1990,
single-family mortgage revenue bonds, 1980 series A, due
April 1, 1991-1995 and 2011. Continental Bank, Chicago,
Southwest National Bank of Wichita, Kan., and Morgan Guaranty
Trust Co., New York, are paying agents. SOLON, OHIO, will
recall 6 1/4% industrial development first mortgage bonds,
and 6 7/8% series 1969 bonds, both due Oct. 1, 1997, on Oct.
1, 1990. Ameritrust, Cleveland and Dallas, is paying agent.
   WAGONER COUNTY, OKLA., HOME FINANCE AUTHORITY will call
single-family mortgage revenue bonds, 1980 series A, due
1991-1997, and April 1, 2011, on Oct. 1, 1990. Bank of
Oklahoma, Tulsa, and Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, are
redemption agents.
   WEST POINT, MISS., will call $100,000 principal amount of
industrial development revenue bonds, series 1973, Big Yank
project, on Oct. 1, 1990. Mercantile Bank of St. Louis is
trustee.
   WESTMINSTER, CALIF., will redeem $120,000 of 1965 water
revenue bonds due Oct. 1, 1995 on Oct. 1, 1990. Bank of
America, San Francisco and Los Angeles, Chase Manhattan Bank,
New York, and Harris Trust &amp; Savings Bank, Chicago, are
redemption agents.
   WOOD GLEN HOUSING FINANCE CORP. will on Oct. 1, 1990,
recall 10% mortgage revenue bonds, series 1980. Sun Bank,
Orlando, Fla., is trustee.
                                                                                                       

                        CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

   BOMBARDIER CAPITAL INC. will call for redemption
remarketed preferred stock, series A, on Sept. 13, Sept. 20,
Sept. 27, Oct. 4 and Oct. 11. IBJ Schroder Bank &amp; Trust Co.
is paying agent.
   DUQUESNE LIGHT CO. will redeem 10 1/8% first mortgage
bonds due Feb. 1, 2009, 16 1/4% bonds due May 1, 2012, 10
3/4% bonds due June 1, 1995, 10 1/4% bonds due Dec. 1, 1992,
and 11 5/8% bonds due Dec. 1, 2015. Payment will be made Oct.
1, 1990 through Mellon Securities Trust Co., New York.
   EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK will recall on Oct. 1, 1990, 13
1/2% bonds of 1980 due Oct. 1, 2000. Chase Manhattan Bank,
New York, is paying agent.
   LOUISIANA POWER &amp; LIGHT CO. will call for partial
redemption 13.12% preferred stock on Oct. 1, 1990. Bank of
Montreal Trust Co., New York, is redemption agent.
   SECURITY PACIFIC CORP. will redeem on Oct. 1, 1990,
extendible notes due Oct. 1, 1996. Bankers Trust Co., New
York, is trustee.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sotheby's Employees Stand to Make
   Big Profits by Exercising Stock Options
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   BID U.CHR ADTLY
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Today, about 300 key employees of Sotheby's
Holdings Inc. become eligible, for the first time, to
exercise stock options allowing them to buy up to 2.5 million
shares at a huge discount and resell them at the market
price.
   How nice that the stock of the art-auction giant rose 6%
Friday after Sotheby's announced it will buy back up to three
million of its own shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the terms of a compensation program set up in
September 1987, veteran and prized Sotheby's employees were
granted options to purchase a total 7.5 million shares
(adjusted for a 2-for-1 stock split in July 1989). The first
third of those options become exercisable today at $1.50 a
share. In New York Stock Exchange trading Friday, Sotheby's
shares closed at $12.625, up 75 cents.
   Diana Phillips Levitt, spokeswoman for the company, said
the buy-back announcement wasn't intended to lift the price
of the stock for the benefit of the options-holders. Most of
the stock options, she said, are being granted to 18 top
Sotheby's officials who, under Securities and Exchange
Commission insider-trading rules, are prohibited from selling
them for six months.
   But the remaining Sotheby's employees granted options can
immediately buy and resell the shares at the market price,
which based on Friday's close would amount to a turnaround
profit of 741.7%. Those 282 employees "will be perfectly free
to trade," said Harvey Pitt, a former general counsel of the
SEC and now a securities attorney with the law firm Fried,
Frank, Harris, Shriver &amp; Jacobson. "You can buy company stock
in the morning and sell it in the afternoon."
   Ms. Levitt said the options exercises figured in the
announcement of the buy-back -- which the company decided on
Thursday to launch -- only in that "given the knowledge that
a portion of the employee stock ownership program vested on
Tuesday, it was important for all shareholders to have the
information about the buy-back simultaneously and prior to
the vesting of the options." The company's top insiders, she
said, would only be disadvantaged by a near-term run-up in
the stock price because they'd pay higher taxes on their
shares. The options program was set up to encourage key
employees to remain with the company for some time after it
went public in May 1988.
   SEC officials declined to comment on the stock buy-back
other than to say that no rules cover the timing of buy-back
announcements such as this one. Companies normally buy back
their own shares to boost their stock prices, or sometimes to
fend off a takeover bid. Sotheby's stock is near the low end
of its 52-week trading range of $10.125 to $37 a share. The
stock has fallen sharply on poor results last spring for some
of the firm's auctions here and in London of contemporary
art, Soviet art and impressionist paintings.
   Ms. Levitt said the buy-back wasn't in response to any
takeover overtures, adding that A. Alfred Taubman, chairman
of the company, controls more than 60% of the voting power.
Sotheby's has two classes of stock with different voting
rights. The options-holders will receive Class B shares,
which carry ten votes per share. The Class B shares convert
upon sale to Class A shares, which carry one vote.
   The New York auction house had 18.5 million common shares
outstanding Aug. 27. The stock buy-back, which is being
funded with cash on hand, represents 16.2% of the outstanding
shares. Given the stock's close Thursday, the buy-back will
cost the company about $36 million. It's an "open-ended
program, which will take place over a period of time," and
the shares purchased will be retired, said Ms. Levitt. "It's
an excellent investment for the company and a very good use
of our corporate funds."
   Separately, ADT Ltd., a British conglomerate, said it
increased its stake in another leading auction house,
London-based Christie's International PLC. Since July, the
company has boosted its stake to 22% from 20%, and now holds
38,115,000 voting shares. Throughout the acquisition, ADT
officials have maintained that they have no plans to attempt
a takeover.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Emigration in Hong Kong
   Likely to Jump This Year
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Emigration from Hong Kong will leap almost
50% in 1990 because of fears of China's takeover in 1997, the
British colonial government announced.
   The government said 62,000 people are expected to leave
the territory this year, compared with 42,000 last year, a
jump of 48%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A government spokesman said emigration was expected to
level out at about 60,000 people a year, or 1,150 people a
week. In 1991, he predicted, 58,000 will leave the colony.
   Most of those leaving are members of Hong Kong's
well-educated middle class, who have turned this
1,063-square-kilometer patch of islands and peninsula on the
southern Chinese coast into an economic powerhouse. Their
departure has sparked fears of economic and social problems
in Hong Kong once China resumes control of the territory in
1997.
   Interest in emigration has skyrocketed since China cracked
down on a movement for freedom in Beijing in June of last
year. The crackdown convinced many in the territory that
China could easily break its promise to maintain the colony's
freewheeling economic and social system for 50 years.
   London's refusal to give its colonial subjects the right
to live in Britain had a role in stimulating emigration.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Salmon Survive Oil Spill
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   XON
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   When the Exxon Valdez hit the rocks of Prince William
Sound last year, there were predictions of a near-apocalypse
for Alaska's salmon industry. Well, this year's salmon catch
is coming to an end and it turns out it will be the biggest
in history. This news, running counter to the consensus, has
merited barely a whisper of attention.
   So far, the Washington Post reports that 40 million salmon
have been caught, far outstripping the 1987 record harvest of
29 million. Many of the salmon were hatched last spring in
the very waters fouled by the Exxon Valdez oil spill. The
rest were released from hatcheries in Prince William Sound
and swam through the same waters on their way to the ocean.
At the largest hatchery in the area, the number of pink
salmon returning to the sound this summer was double the
average of recent years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last year's oil spill apparently had little effect on the
growth of plankton in the sound, the main source of food for
young salmon. Salmon hatcheries report plankton growth was
better than ever this year.
   Dozens of scientists are studying the sound to determine
what lasting effects in other areas, if any, the oil spill
will have. However, in another example of how manic
litigation can muzzle progress, many of the completed studies
have been put under wraps by lawyers doing battle in damage
suits resulting from the spill.
   The Exxon Valdez tragedy taught the oil companies a
lesson: that if they didn't take greater precautions, they
risked the financial future of their firms. But the
environmentalists who jumped on the spill to justify their
philosophy of zero-risk to the environment have refused to
acknowledge that the damage from the Valdez spill was not
irreversible. Their credibilty among informed people will
suffer so long as they insist on promoting the politics of
hysteria.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ensign Bank Said
   To Be Insolvent;
   U.S. Takes It Over
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Federal regulators took over Ensign Bank, a
New York thrift controlled by Ted Arison, chairman of
Miami-based Carnival Cruise Lines Inc.
   The Office of Thrift Supervision said Ensign became
insolvent because "poor underwriting, inadequate appraisal
policies and, to a lesser degree, the softening New York-area
real estate market" left the thrift saddled with a high level
of nonperforming assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As of June 30, Ensign had assets of $1.78 billion,
liabilities of $1.79 billion and tangible capital of negative
$174.8 million, for a capital-to-assets ratio of negative
14.48%.
   A spokesman for Mr. Arison said in a statement that Mr.
Arison was "shocked and outraged" by the regulators' actions.
Ensign was in the middle of negotiations with federal
officials to recapitalize the thrift and to bring it into
full compliance with regulatory requirements, the spokesman
said.
   "There are problems with the bank -- no one denies that,"
the spokesman said. "But the bank wasn't going to fold."
Under plans being developed with regulators, Mr. Arison was
prepared to add "substantial amounts of new capital" to the
thrift, he said.
   Ensign's president and chief executive officer, Alan
Master, said the move by regulators was a "terrible and
unnecessary loss not only to the American taxpayer but also
to the communities served by Ensign and to Ensign's
employees."
   In 1985, the thrift, which has 19 branches in New York,
New Jersey and Florida, began "markedly" expanding its
construction, land and commercial real estate lending, the
OTS said. Nonperforming assets increased from $16.2 million,
or 1.58% of total assets, on Dec. 31, 1985, to $174.5
million, or 9.14% of total assets, on Dec. 31, 1989, the
agency said.
   The OTS said a whopping $416.7 million, or 22.2% of total
assets, were classified as "substandard, doubtful, or loss"
as of March 31. Ensign had net losses of $38 million in 1989
and $34.4 million for the first half of this year. Since May,
the thrift had been operating under an agreement with the
regulators restricting its loan and investment activities.
   The institution will remain open under the control of the
Resolution Trust Corp., the agency set up last year to sell
failed savings and loans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Shackled Burma
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   If the United Nations is indeed interested in restoring
its relevance, there is an increasingly urgent project that
world leaders might take up in Burma. It is now more than
three months since the Burmese people voted overwhelmingly to
end the socialist repression that over the past 28 years has
wrecked their once-thriving nation. But the military
dictators in Rangoon haven't budged. Instead, they've kept
their security forces busy with tasks such as shooting to
death at least four peaceful demonstrators on August 8 in
Mandalay, according to Amnesty International.
   The signs are that the ruling military junta, apparently
led by General Khin Nyunt, miscalculated in allowing
relatively fair polling in the May 27 elections. Though some
of the opposition's strongest leaders were hampered in the
campaign by being held in prison or under house arrest,
voters gave some 80% of the seats and 60% of the popular vote
to the opposition.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So far, the Rangoon junta hasn't even offered the winners
office space. The main opposition party's secretary-general,
Aung Sun Suu Kyi, remains under the house arrest imposed more
than a year ago. Its chairman, Tin Oo -- reportedly ailing --
is still serving a three-year sentence of hard labor, imposed
last December.
   Burma's dictator, Ne Win, officially stepped down when the
junta took over to crush huge street protests in 1988. But Ne
Win is widely believed to be keeping a hand in the
organization's policies of gulag government. These have
recently included big resettlement programs, reminiscent of
Khmer Rouge tactics in the 1970s in Cambodia, apparently
aimed at breaking up pockets of political unrest. Tens of
thousands of Burmese have been moved from the cities to the
countryside. One Western diplomat based in Rangoon told us
earlier this year that in some cases entire neighborhoods in
the capital had been moved out. The resettlement areas are
officially off-limits to outsiders.
   Burma's sad experience should leave us all leery of
trusting the sweeter promises offered by the tyrants of
Asia's similarly bleak Marxist nations -- Vietnam, Cambodia,
Laos, China and North Korea. But if the junta can somehow be
forced to honor the opposition victory at the polls, Burma's
example could yet help inspire an East European-style sweep
in Asia. Asia's tragedy is that the revolts in China and
Burma have rattled but not yet broken the chains.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Gradco Systems Inc.:
   Meeting Reset as Plenum,
   Tash Propose Rival Slate
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GRCO PLEN
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Gradco Systems Inc. adjourned its annual meeting last
Friday after 8.9%-holder Plenum Publishing Corp. and its
chairman Martin Tash said they would seek to elect their own
slate of directors.
   Plenum disclosed its plans in a filing with the Securities
and Exchange Commission earlier last week. Gradco, an Irving,
Calif., maker of paper-handling equipment, responded by
adjourning the meeting until Oct. 12 to give the company time
to mail additional proxy materials regarding Plenum's recent
actions to shareholders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Joins GM to Offer
   Early Rebates on '91 Cars
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp., following the lead
of General Motors Corp. is offering rebates on most of its
1991 model cars and trucks before the model year begins.
   Chrysler said it will offer rebates of as much as $1,000
on most 1991 car and truck models, but not on its restyled
minivans and certain other models.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GM said last month that it was offering discounts of as
much as $1,250 on some of its 1991-model cars now arriving in
showrooms. The 1991 model year begins Oct. 1.
   Ford Motor Co. hasn't matched GM's and Chrysler's offers.
But Ford is likely to follow suit, possibly as soon as today.
   Chrysler officials said last month they wanted to reduce
their reliance on rebates as a marketing tool. But with the
outlook for fall sales already uncertain in the face of a
softening U.S. economy, Chrysler had little choice but to
match GM's offers. The No. 3 auto maker's share of the car
market fell sharply in the first seven months of this year to
8.8% from 10.4%.
   Chrysler said it's offering $500 rebates on 19 models,
including the Chrysler Imperial, Plymouth Acclaim and
Sundance, Dodge Daytona and Spirit and Jeep Comanche.
Chrysler set rebates of $1,000 on its Dodge Ramcharger and
Jeep Grand Wagoneer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arguments Open in Trial
   Of Hong Kong's Ronald Li
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST H.CPA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Opening arguments began Monday in the closely
watched corruption trial of former Hong Kong Stock Exchange
chairman Ronald Li, which prosecutors expect to last six
weeks.
   Mr. Li, 61 years old, pleaded innocent last week to two
counts of accepting preferential offerings of shares in
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., and Novel Enterprises Ltd. in
1986 and 1987, in exchange for helping to obtain listings for
the companies' shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The former official, who is free on HK$12 million bail
(US$1.6 million), faces a maximum penalty of seven years in
prison and HK$500,000 in fines on each count.
   Mr. Li and six other former bourse officials, including
his son Alfred, will be jointly tried in February on six
similar corruption charges. A string of other counts were
dismissed in separate actions earlier this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Prices of New Stocks Plunged Last Week
   But Some Find a Few Issues With Value
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   ISAN ACAT BMTI DNST HHRD X.HII VFIC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Prices for the market's newly arrived stocks
last week plunged to what some say is the weakest level in 2
1/2 years. Now some investors say there are a few fallen
angels worth noticing.
   A seller's bazaar just two months ago, the
over-the-counter market for initial public stock offerings
crumbled as investors shaken by the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait
and an uncertain economy fled to more seasoned investments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "That's why {new} OTC stocks do poorly in bad markets.
They require seasoning," says Bruce Bredehoft, director of
research at Sit Investments, Minneapolis. Investors who
couldn't get enough of new offerings in mid-July now deliver
quick and brutal blows to recently debuted companies that
hint of disappointments -- particularly those with short
track records.
   The collapse in the IPO market sheared heady premiums from
many offerings that were stiffly priced by eager investment
bankers and their clients. "The new issues market was so
strong that the recent correction essentially eliminated the
premiums," says Norman Fosback, editor of New Issues
newsletter, Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Some stocks such as
In-Store Advertising, they add, collapsed for good reasons.
   In-Store Advertising last week lowered its earnings
outlook less than two months after a July 19 initial offering
at $19 a share. By the end of the week the stock had lost
more than half its market value in a dive to $5.75. That
casualty helped fuel a 9.1% drop in the IPO 100 Index to its
lowest level in 30 months, according to the IPO Reporter, a
New York newsletter published by Investment Dealers Digest.
The index measures the average price change in shares of the
most recent 100 IPOs.
   Others, such as energy shares buoyed by higher oil prices,
are still trading above their offering prices and offer very
few bargains. But among the fallen issues there are some
values, although not a basement full, say Mr. Fosback and
several money managers. Among the shares some managers are
buying are:
                                                                                                       

   Arctco: Offered at $11 apiece on June 26, shares of the
Thief River Falls, Minn., snowmobile maker reached a high of
12 1/2 before skidding. They closed Friday at 8. "If gasoline
goes up 10 cents a gallon, you won't stop using your
snowmobile," says Ralph Wanger, president of the $800 million
Acorn Fund of Chicago. "It's perfectly reasonable at these
prices." The company averaged 59% a year growth in net income
over the past five years, with 1990 earnings of $1.13 a
share. Suzuki Motor retains a 27% beneficial ownership; the
state of Wisconsin Investment Board has an 8.4% stake.
                                                                                                       

   Bird Medical Technologies: Companies such as Bird Medical
that weathered the 1981 recession are attractive to Richard
Carney, president of Cramblit &amp; Carney, a Los Angeles manager
of $900 million of institutional assets. The Palm Springs,
Calif., maker of respiratory equipment went public Aug. 2 at
8 and closed Friday at 6. Mr. Carney says he likes the
company's 31% average annual growth rate and its balance
sheet. But not everyone is a fan: Mr. Fosback says that at
about 25 times earnings, he's advising his clients the stock
is still too dear.
                                                                                                       

   Dynasty Classics: Offered in May at $11.25 apiece, shares
of the retailer of lighting fixtures and Christmas
decorations soared to 18 3/4 before the market peaked and a
cautious article in Barron's put a damper on the stock. With
1989 pro forma earnings of 34 cents a share, Mr. Fosback says
he, too, found the stock's offering price too rich. But he
recommended purchase at 10 1/2 or lower. Friday, the stock
closed at 9.
                                                                                                       

   Horsehead Resources: Mr. Carney also likes the record
established by zinc and waste recycler Horsehead Resources.
Owners Horsehead Industries and B.U.S. Berzelius Umwalt of
Germany sold a 9% stake to the public June 29 at $14.50 a
share. The stock soared to 22 1/4 before falling with the
market and amid some analysts' concerns about regulatory
risks. At Friday's close of 13 3/4, Mr. Carney says he is
adding to his position.
                                                                                                       

   VeriFone: Offered in March at $16 apiece, shares of this
Redwood City, Calif., provider of credit-card handling
technology for retailers and other companies have traded as
high as 26. Friday the stock closed at 15 3/4, a level
attractive to Mr. Bredehoft of Sit Investments. The 46%
closely held company has few major competitors, he notes.
   However, Mr. Bredehoft says for the most part he is
advising clients to steer clear of this year's rocky market.
A 30-year follower of IPOs, he says it usually takes three to
six months for the IPO market to stabilize after a collapse.
   Others, however, are choosing cheap stocks -- but not
telling. Pressed for some tips, mutual fund managers at T.
Rowe Price Associates in Baltimore are playing coy. "There
were some diamonds in the rough that were rich and very
attractive," says a spokeswoman for the fund.
   With last month's collapse, she adds, "we are actively
buying now in some issues." But T. Rowe Price's fund managers
aren't tipping their hands. "It complicates our buying," she
explains. In other words, more buyers drive prices out of the
bargain basement.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks gained in light volume in advance
of the Labor Day weekend.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index added 2.53 to 381.21, a 0.7%
rise, as volume dropped to 79.9 million shares from 106.3
million Friday. Advancing shares outpaced decliners, 984 to
789. However, only 13 issues reached new highs, while 86 fell
to new lows.
   Envirosafe fell another 3 3/8 after Thursday's 4 7/8-point
tumble. At its current price of 7, the stock is trading at
about half of its 52-week high set less than two months ago.
Thursday, an Ohio agency denied an application by one of the
company's subsidiaries to construct an additional
waste-disposal site in the state.
   Intel was the most active stock Friday, adding only 1/4 to
33 3/8 after losing 1 7/8 Thursday. Investors continued to
worry about a patent recently granted to a California man
covering many of the electronics industry's most lucrative
chips.
   Among other large OTC stocks, MCI Communications rose 1
3/8 to 34; Apple Computer added 3/4 to 37; and Oracle Systems
gained 7/8 to 11 5/8. Conner Peripherals eased 3/8 to 20 5/8.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST AFRIC J.MIZ LATAM FORGN JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   RADIOACTIVITY IN POLYNESIA
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Radioactivity from French underground nuclear tests at
Mururoa atoll is leaking into the Pacific Ocean only a few
years after each test, according to a new study by a U.S.
scientist.
   The findings by scientist Norm Buske of the
Washington-based environmental pressure group Search
Technical Services challenge French-government claims that
such contamination would take hundreds of years to surface at
the Polynesian bomb site. The study is based on
re-examination of water samples taken by French marine
biologist Jacques Cousteau from Mururoa lagoon on June 22,
1987, the day after a nuclear test.
   "Water in Mururoa lagoon is contaminated with cesium-134
and cesium-137 leaking from underground nuclear tests," Mr.
Buske's study said. "The time required for radioactive
leakage to reach the open environment from nuclear explosions
under Mururoa is probably less than six years."
   Mr. Buske called for a study of the test sites at Mururoa
and neighboring Fangataufa atoll to determine the extent of
radioactive contamination.
                                                                                                       

   ITALY'S NEW VISA REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                       

   Italy began requiring visas for Turks and citizens of
several North African countries yesterday under a law
intended to limit immigration. Algerians, Moroccans,
Mauritanians, Tunisians and Turks will all have to have
visas, the Foreign Ministry said. In April, Italy imposed
visa requirements on citizens of Senegal and Gambia. Italy
gets an estimated 100,000 illegal immigrants a year.
                                                                                                       

   A NEWCOMER IN SCOTLAND
                                                                                                       

   Mizuno Corp., a leading Japanese sporting-goods maker,
said it would build a golf-club-assembly factory near
Glasgow, Scotland. The new plant will start up in December,
with production capacity of 240,000 clubs in the first year.
Mizuno now sells golf clubs in Europe made in Taiwan and
South Korea.
                                                                                                       

   SOVIET MEDICINE SHORTAGE
                                                                                                       

   The Soviet Union is running out of essential medicines,
angering consumers already beset by shortages of gasoline,
tobacco and food. "As early as next February, the country may
run out of drugs completely, because the pharmaceutical
industry is crumbling even more rapidly than the rest of the
economy," Health Minister Igor Denisov warned. Said the
workers' newspaper Trud: "We have already seen tobacco riots.
Shall we now prepare for aspirin riots?"
                                                                                                       

   BRAZILIAN INFLATION
                                                                                                       

   Inflation in Brazil was 10.58% in August but showed signs
of slackening, the government said. The inflation rate was
slightly lower than the 10.97% increase in July, the
government statistics bureau IBGE said. However, the final
figure disappointed economic policy makers who had predicted
inflation of 8.5% in August. The increase was blamed in part
on higher fuel prices. Brazil imports about 45% of its oil.
Brazil's consumer prices in the past 12 months have risen
4,272%.
                                                                                                       

   GOING AFTER MARCOS MONEY
                                                                                                       

   Philippine President Corazon Aquino swore in a new
chairman of the government committee attempting to recover
the "hidden wealth" of the late President Ferdinand Marcos.
The appointee, David Castro, is the fifth person to head the
Presidential Commission on Good Government in the four years
since it was created. After the oath-taking, Mr. Castro said
he was confident his commission would recover by 1991 a
"substantial portion" of the money and property that Mr.
Marcos and his associates allegedly took from the Philippine
treasury.
                                                                                                       

   WORLD CLIMATE CONFERENCE
                                                                                                       

   Representatives from 75 countries reached agreement last
week on the mechanics of global warming but differed over how
to combat it.
   The four-day United Nations meeting in Sundsvall, Sweden,
backed a report acknowledging basic scientific facts about
the so-called greenhouse effect, said conference chairman
Bert Bolin. "But it has been harder to agree on concrete
measures," he said, adding: "Political considerations enter
the picture."
   The conference report was not immediately published, but
officials said there were few fundamental changes to the
draft presented by members of the U.N. Environment Program
and the World Meteorological Organization. The draft report
agreed that burning fossil fuels releases "greenhouse gases,"
particularly carbon dioxide, that trap heat near Earth's
surface and raise temperatures.
   Mr. Bolin said a problem facing negotiators was that
developing countries, with about 75% of the world's
population, emit only 25% of global greenhouse gases. As
these nations develop, he said, their emissions will rise
steeply unless industrialized nations provide financial aid
for environment-friendly technology.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Delays in Soviet payments for imports from Japan are
reportedly worsening after a period of improvement. A
Japanese news agency said the delays totaled $518 million as
of the end of July, up 16.1% from the month before. . . .
Dutch horticulturalists plan to sell flowers grown without
pesticides. The Westland flower auction in Naaldwijk would
initially set aside an area for selling chemical-free
chrysanthemums, but this may be extended to other flowers and
potted plants, an industry official said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Axel Springer Profit
   Rose 7% in First Half
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.SPR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- Axel Springer Verlag said first-half net
income rose 7% to 60 million Deutsche marks ($38.3 million).
   The Hamburg, West Germany, publisher didn't provide
comparable figures for the year-earlier period. The company
said it achieved the results despite its cooperative ventures
in East Germany, which the company said demanded considerable
expenses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it expects the positive earnings
developments to continue in the second half. The company
publishes West Germany's largest mass circulation tabloid
newspaper, Bild.
   Sales rose 14% to 1.67 billion marks, with all of the
company's sectors contributing to the increase.
   Newspapers sales rose 83 million marks to 369 million
marks, while magazine sales climbed 34 million marks to 369
million marks.
   Springer, which has about 11,800 employees, invested about
102 million marks in the first half.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Time Off: Diversions and Excursions Sept. 4-17
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   ART
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   International Center of Photography Midtown, New York:
"Man Ray/Bazaar Years: A Fashion Retrospective" documents the
groundbreaking fashion photography of Man Ray, the surrealist
artist. The more than 140 photos, many incorporating as props
sculpture by Man Ray and BUSY such friends as Brancusi and
Giacometti, are distinguished by both technical
experimentation and dramatic imagery. Sept. 7-Nov. 25. The
exhibit then embarks on a two-year world tour.
   For those who prefer a behind-the-scenes perspective,
beginning next month there's a 10-lecture series, "The
Photographers," with participants scheduled to include the
German-born Life Magazine legend Alfred Eisenstaedt. Advance
registration required; call (212) 860-1776 for information.
   Also premiering at ICP Midtown this week is "The Power to
Heal: Ancient Arts &amp; Modern Medicine." Subjects range from
Tibetan healers administering pills made from diamonds and
rubies, to capuchin monkeys helping quadriplegics in Boston.
Through Oct. 14. 1133 Avenue of the Americas at 43rd Street.
                                                                                                       

   National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.: "Kazimir
Malevich, 1878-1935" -- About 170 paintings, works on paper
and architectural models by this Soviet avant-garde artist.
Of special interest are Malevich's original set and costume
designs for the cubo-futurist opera "Victory Over the Sun,"
which premiered to boos and a hail of rotten vegetables in
St. Petersburg in 1913 and was then suppressed for years in
the Soviet Union. Fourth Street at Constitution Avenue NW,
Sept. 16-Nov. 4. The show then travels to the new Armand
Hammer Museum and Cultural Center, Los Angeles (Nov. 25,
1990-Jan. 13, 1991); and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New
York (Feb. 7-March 24, 1991).
                                                                                                       

   Met Life Gallery, New York: "Saving Our Past -- A Race
Against Time" -- The World Monuments Fund marks its 25th
anniversary with this photographic exhibit examining the key
issues, such as pollution, confronting preservationists
today. The show highlights some of the WMF's most prominent
projects of the past quarter-century: the Church of St.
Trophime in France; the Church of St. Ann and the Holy
Trinity in Brooklyn, N.Y.; the Citadelle Henry in Haiti; as
well as major murals by Diego Rivera damaged in the 1985
Mexico City earthquake. 24 East 24th St., Sept. 17-Dec. 28.
                                                                                                       

   FESTIVAL
                                                                                                       

   The third annual Geraldine R. Dodge Poetry Festival
gathers well-known national and international poets for
readings, workshops, discussions, storytelling and musical
performances, most of which are open to the general public.
(Some events are for preregistered high-school students and
teachers only.) Participants include Bei Dao and Duoduo, two
leading Chinese poets now in exile; Joyce Carol Oates; Native
American poet Joy Harjo; and black poet Lucille Clifton.
Waterloo Village, Stanhope, N.J., Sept. 13-15. (201)
540-8442.
                                                                                                       

   New York State Big Apple Festival -- A bit of the country
comes to the city with this two-day indoor-outdoor event
glorifying the Empire State's most-harvested fruit and
country life in general. The riverside esplanade at lower
Manhattan's World Financial Center will be the site of all
kinds of apple-related events: For the kids there'll be an
animal petting zoo, hay rides, apple-bobbing and even piglet
races. For adults there'll be a wine and cheese garden and a
demonstration of grape pressing. For everyone there'll be
apple food products, strolling musicians, fiddlers, magicians
and the antics of a "Walking/Talking Apple." Battery Park
City, Sept. 16 and 17, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
                                                                                                       

   MUSIC
                                                                                                       

   Lyric Opera of Chicago: A rare staging of Christoph
Willibald Gluck's "Alceste" stars Jessye Norman as the
paragon of connubial fidelity and Chris Merritt as the object
of her self-sacrificing impulse. The production, by Robert
Wilson, is conducted by Gary Bertini. 20 North Wacker Drive.
Sept. 14, 18, 22, 26; Oct. 1, 5, 9, 13. (312) 332-2244.
                                                                                                       

   Opera Omaha: The fall festival gets under way with a bel
canto rarity, Donizetti's "Maria Padilla," starring Renee
Fleming (Sept. 14, 16, 20, 22). Also new is "Golem," a
setting by British composer John Casken of the Jewish fable
about a Frankensteinoid monster who goes beserk for lack of
love (Sept. 15, 21, 23). Filling other evenings with her
songs of Weil is Angelina Reaux, who brings her one woman
show, "Stranger Here Myself," to Nebraska (Sept. 13, 16, 23).
Witherspoon Concert Hall at the Joslyn Art Museum. (402)
342-7107.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Xerox Unit Is Selling
   Auto Insurer to GM,
   Puts Another on Block
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   XRX GM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   BASKING RIDGE, N.J. -- Crum &amp; Forster Inc. said it intends
to get out of the automobile insurance business, selling one
unit to General Motors Corp. and putting another on the
block.
   The troubled unit of Xerox Corp. said it wants to raise
money so it can focus on its commercial insurance business.
Xerox's new chief executive, Paul Allaire, has decreed that
any such moves must be funded without help from the parent
company's more-healthy units.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Crum &amp; Forster said it signed a memorandum of
understanding regarding the sale of its Navco Corp.
subsidiary to Motors Insurance Corp., a unit of General
Motors Acceptance Corp., GM's finance arm. Terms weren't
disclosed, and the transaction is subject to definitive
agreement and various approvals.
   Navco offers auto policies tailored for specific groups
and associations. MIC writes auto insurance for GM employees
only, though it offers a range of other auto- and
mortgage-related lines.
   Crum &amp; Forster said it also intends to sell its other auto
insurance unit, Viking Insurance Co. of Wisconsin. Viking and
Navco each had annual premiums of $147 million in 1989, the
company said. Together, the units make up about 9% of Crum &amp;
Forster's business.
   In April, Crum &amp; Forster stopped writing all insurance
lines, including auto policies, because the business was
having losses and wouldn't be profitable anytime soon. A GMAC
spokesman said he didn't know if Navco is profitable
individually; a Crum &amp; Forster spokeswoman didn't return
calls.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   CRUM &amp; FORSTER Inc. stopped writing in April all personal
insurance lines, including auto policies. In yesterday's
edition, it was incorrectly stated that the company stopped
writing all insurance lines.
   (WSJ Sept. 5, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mitsubishi Metal Plan
   To Build a Refinery
   In Texas Is Set Back
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MBM
</CO>
<IN>
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Mitsubishi Metal Corp., Japan's largest
integrated nonferrous smelter, said construction of its
planned copper refinery plant in Texas has been delayed
because state authorities and the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency haven't approved the project.
   Though the project has been approved in most respects, it
hasn't been authorized according to air-pollution standards,
Mitsubishi Metal said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it will exchange views with the state and
the EPA on its "continuous smelting and converting process,"
which, Mitsubishi Metal maintained, doesn't disrupt the
environment and operates with lower costs.
   A spokesman said Mitsubishi Metal's local subsidiary,
Texas Copper Corp., had planned to invest 25 billion yen
($173.1 million) to build the copper refinery plant in Texas
City.
   Initially, construction had been expected to begin by the
end of 1989, and the plant was scheduled to begin operations
by the end of 1991. The plant is to turn out crude copper
totaling 150,000 tons a year. As a result of the delay,
construction is to start by the end of 1991, and operations
are to begin by the end of 1993.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Oil Supply
   Seen as Adequate
   Through October
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN MDEST LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- The International Energy Agency expects oil
supplies to remain adequate through October despite the
Middle East crisis and then to tighten as winter approaches.
   Agency officials don't look for the supply crunch to be
big enough to trigger the 21-member agency's oil-sharing
agreement, which would call for drawdowns of government oil
stockpiles and other emergency measures, until late in the
fourth quarter, if then.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We are going to have to watch the second half of the
fourth quarter very carefully {when} we could face a market
tightening and possibly the physical problem that the IEA was
designed to cope with," said George Quincy Lumsden Jr.,
director of oil markets development.
   The governing board of the Paris-based agency met Friday
to consider possible responses to the oil-supply situation
created by global sanctions against Iraq, which have removed
an estimated 4.3 million barrels of Iraqi and Kuwaiti crude
from world oil markets. After the meeting, as expected, the
agency reported it had found oil markets are "generally well
supplied" and that emergency-sharing measures aren't needed
now.
   "Should the situation require it," the agency said, "the
IEA will immediately take whatever emergency action is
needed, including co-ordinated use of public and
government-controlled stocks and further demand restraint."
   The agency cited several steps already being taken to help
maintain a supply-demand balance in world oil markets. It
included the estimated 300,000 barrels a day of withdrawals
from commercial inventories in August and the expected higher
rate for September.
   More important, according to agency officials, was last
week's action by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries that approved increased production by those OPEC
members with spare capacity. "This will do much to replace
supplies removed from the market because of the embargo," the
agency said.
   OPEC's suspension of quotas officially endorses the output
increases that had been launched by Saudi Arabia and several
other countries in the wake of the Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait
by Iraq. Already, production by Saudi Arabia is said to be
more than two million barrels a day higher than its former
OPEC quota of 5.4 million. The kingdom's output is believed
to be near 7.5 million barrels a day and could, according to
some Saudi sources, reach as high as 8.5 million barrels a
day, for brief periods, in a month or so if the market
requires it.
   Additionally, Venezuela and the United Arab Emirates are
well on their way to adding a promised 500,000 barrels a day
each to their output. And several other OPEC countries with
some spare capacity are stepping up production as quickly as
possible.
   Nigeria's oil minister, Jibril Aminu, said yesterday that
oil companies in that nation are being directed to increase
production in line with the OPEC decision, according to the
OPEC News Agency. At last week's Vienna OPEC meeting, he said
Nigeria's production could be increased by 250,000 barrels a
day.
   The news agency said Mr. Aminu also urged meetings between
OPEC and the IEA to develop common measures to stabilize oil
markets. This followed similar calls last week by several
others in OPEC, including Iran's oil minister, who introduced
the idea.
   The other OPEC ministers didn't take any action on the
Iranian proposal. But in a statement issued after their
meeting they did call for active participation by
oil-consuming nations. They recommended that the IEA execute
its oil-sharing agreement, which they said "was specifically
designed to meet eventualities such as the present
situation." Also, they urged that the "present huge
accumulation" of oil-company inventories be used.
   Yesterday, Diego Tamariz, Ecuador's oil minister,
explained why OPEC considers cooperation by the consuming
nations, in drawing down their inventories, to be vitally
necessary for stable oil markets at this time. Much of the
additional crude to be produced by Saudi Arabia, Venezuela
and others is heavier -- or more dense -- than the oil it is
replacing, he said. Some refiners will have difficulty
processing it. Also, these crudes yield much less of the more
desired fuels such as gasoline and diesel fuel. Many of the
consuming nations' stockpiles, mainly those held by oil
companies, include lighter crudes. "So that's why the
consumers were asked to help," he said.
   While IEA officials ruled out use of the emergency program
at this time, Helga Steeg, the agency's executive director,
said she had sent a message to OPEC Secretary-General Subroto
expressing appreciation for the decision to increase output.
She reiterated the IEA's opposition to any formal contact
between it and OPEC, although other officials said informal
contacts continue.
   The IEA officials said they will continue to monitor
oil-market developments closely to determine if additional
measures are necessary and that the governing board plans to
meet again Sept. 28. Meanwhile, the IEA reported in its
statement, "the immediate supply-demand situation is
manageable, given high stock levels and expected increases in
production."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Drug Makers Pitch to Consumers
   In an Aggressive Bid for Business
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.SAN PFE OMC TBSA UPJ MKC Z.CIG
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COSMETICS, PERSONAL CARE, OVER-THE-COUNTER REMEDIES (COS)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   Not long ago, the stuffy pharmaceutical industry viewed
the idea of pitching prescription drugs directly to the
public as, well, unseemly.
   No more.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In today's fierce marketing climate, a growing number of
drug makers are pushing their products in the consumer press
rather than limiting their advertising to medical journals.
They've placed ads in major newspapers as well as women's,
fishing and news magazines. Drug companies will spend an
estimated $90 million this year on such taboo-breaking
advertising, compared with the roughly $20 million spent in
1987.
   All the big pharmaceutical manufacturers "are playing
around with it," says Samuel D. Isaly, an industry consultant
in New York, "because everybody is fighting for market
share."
   Drug concerns also are taking a much more aggressive tack
in these ads, mentioning products by brand names for the
first time and sometimes offering moneyback gimmicks. Upjohn,
for example, is trying to lift lower-than-anticipated sales
of its baldness medicine Rogaine by giving men a $10
certificate for seeing their doctor. Other remedies now
hawked by name include Marion Merrell Dow's anti-allergy
medicine Seldane and anti-smoking gum Nicorette, Ciba-Geigy's
menopausal treatment Estraderm and Pfizer's anti-angina drug
Procardia.
   Within two years, prescription-drug ads targeted at
consumers "will become as commonplace as ones for
over-the-counter products," predicts Joy Scott, chief
executive of Scott-Levin Associates, a pharmaceutical
consulting firm in Newtown, Pa. "We are seeing and hearing
about more companies planning campaigns who have never done
it before," she says, including makers of anti-cholesterol
agents.
   Sandoz is seriously considering a consumer ad drive for
1991, even though its first effort ran afoul of the Food and
Drug Administration. In 1987, Sandoz introduced one of the
first brand-name ads, a promotion for its antihistamine
Tavist, aimed at doctors reading general-interest
publications. The company yanked the ad after the FDA
attacked some claims as "false and misleading."
   "Sandoz felt at that time and still does that {consumer
advertising} is a trend that is coming," says David Winter,
vice president of scientific and external affairs at Sandoz
Pharmaceuticals. To ensure the next campaign's success, Mr.
Winter adds, "we are doing more than the usual consultation
with the FDA."
   The government agency, while no longer openly hostile to
consumer advertising, still requires that ads giving a
prescription product's name and suggested usage contain a
list of possible ill effects. Because of the rules,
brand-name drug advertising on television is impractical. "No
network is going to sell you the 15 minutes of air time"
needed to broadcast the lengthy laundry list, notes Ken
Feather, acting FDA director of drug advertising.
   The FDA requirements make drug pitches in consumer
publications much more expensive than conventional ones in
the medical press. A consumer campaign last year by Lexis
Pharmaceuticals cost the tiny maker of birth-control pills $6
million. That was partly because its ad, in magazines such as
Cosmopolitan and Glamour, ran two full pages, with the
warnings consuming a whole page of fine print. Although Lexis
officials claim the effort significantly boosted pill sales,
they halted the ads so they could find extra private
financing.
   "You have to have enough money to just keep at it," says
Richard Donovan, executive vice president of Lexis's agency,
Mathieu, Goluskin, Donovan &amp; Clarke in New York. Advertising
drugs to the public "is a long-term investment. It's not
something that will take place in a few years."
   The high price leaves some industry executives dubious
about whether the new advertising approach is more effective
than pitching solely to health professionals. Pzifer began
running its ads for an improved version of Procardia in
leading news magazines and newspapers last November. Still,
"we are not real keen on this direct-to-consumer
advertising," says Rick Honey, a company spokesman. "We have
no direct evidence that {the campaigns} have any positive
effect on sales."
   Ms. Scott thinks the ranks of doubters will shrink amid
growing market research showing that consumer advertising
works. More patients now cite ad copy when they discuss
possible treatments with their family physicians, according
to a recent survey of doctors by her firm.
   And doctors are increasingly willing to prescribe drugs
that their patients specifically request. Compared with the
medical profession's strident opposition a few years ago, she
says, "that's a major change in physician attitude toward
direct-to-consumer advertising."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   TURNER ASSIGNMENTS: Turner Broadcasting System, Atlanta,
named two agencies to handle general ad assignments.
Tracy-Locke, the Dallas unit of Omnicom Group, was tapped by
the TBS Superstation; Levine, Huntley, Schmidt &amp; Beaver, New
York, was named to handle ad projects for the Cable News
Network. Billings haven't been determined.
                                                                                                       

   ACQUISITIONS: Bozell Rydge, Bozell's ad agency in Sydney,
Australia, acquired C&amp;G Genesis and Grant Hawkins &amp;
Associates, two Sydney shops. The acquisitions add $12
million in billings to Bozell Rydge, bringing its total
billings to $23 million. Terms weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   LIVE AD: Quintessence Inc., a Chicago cosmetics and
fragrance maker, said it plans to air a live 45-second TV ad
during the Miss America Pageant on NBC this Saturday. The
commercial will pitch a new product called Nouvage.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GTE Corp. Scraps
   Negotiations to Buy
   Unit of Thorn EMI
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   U.THN GTE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CONSUMER AND HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS (HPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- For the second time in a year, Britain's Thorn
EMI PLC was jilted at the altar as talks to sell its big
European lighting business to U.S.-based GTE Corp. ended in
failure.
   A Thorn spokeswoman said GTE ended the three-month-old
negotiations after being unable to reach agreement on sales
terms. The Thorn division, valued by analysts at about #350
million ($671.3 million), is a struggling player in a tough
market that Thorn was eager to exit. GTE had coveted the
Thorn business, the world's fifth largest light-bulb maker,
to expand its own, far-bigger world lighting business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the match didn't work out. Thorn declined to specify
why the talks failed, but the spokeswoman cited several
factors that may have cooled GTE's ardor. They included
economic fears arising in the Middle East; GTE's efforts to
digest its planned $6.2 billion purchase of U.S.-based Contel
Corp.; and a continuing decline in the Thorn lighting
business. The Thorn division's operating profit dropped 19%
to #32.9 million in the year ended March 31, on revenue of
#573.4 million. Since March, market conditions have worsened.
   A GTE spokesman confirmed that the talks failed because of
inability to agree on terms, but denied that GTE's decision
was influenced by its Contel purchase. He added that the
company is "committed to the global lighting business" and
remains interested in other acquisitions or alliances. GTE's
electrical products division, of which lighting is a part,
posted operating income of $222 million on revenue of $2.2
billion in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Behind U.S. Military Effort in Mideast
   Lie Tales of Triumph and Hardship
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   A SEAPORT, Saudi Arabia -- Maj. Gen. Barry McCaffrey leans
against the hood of a jeep as the long, dark boat at the pier
behind him disgorges a long procession of military vehicles.
   A cloud of diesel exhaust obscures the moon as the M-1
tanks, Bradley Fighting Vehicles and all manner of trucks
rumble down a metal ramp, turn right and head toward a
staging area for the long drive into the desert.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The general is watching the beginning of the second stage
of the military buildup here: the arrival of sea-lifted
materiel from the U.S. An entire army division -- the 24th
Infantry Division (Mechanized) from Fort Stewart, Ga. -- has
been assembled, loaded on 10 ships and sent halfway around
the world in less than a month.
   Despite the arrival of the first batch of heavy tanks, the
Navy's sea-lift operation has had its share of snafus. Army
commanders, for example, have complained that some ships
haven't been waiting at ports to receive weapons and other
material headed for the Middle East. Other vessels have been
delayed by longer-than-anticipated repair work to get them
ready for the voyage to Saudi Arabia, and at least one ship
has been beset by major mechanical problems along the way.
   Under rules imposed on the press, the size of units or
their locations can't be disclosed, but an Army division
contains between 15,000 and 20,000 men. "Suffice it to say we
have already tripled the amount of armor in the country with
our first two ships," the general says.
   The landing of the 24th, whose 32-knot sea-lift ships made
the voyage through the Atlantic, the Mediterranean, the Suez,
the Red Sea and the steamlike fog of the Persian Gulf in 16
days, isn't an isolated logistics triumph. It is the
beginning of a procession of hulking gray supply ships needed
to give the largely airlifted U.S. forces here bulk and
staying power.
   Lying on the concrete jetty behind the general, rows of
tired soldiers wait in the humid night for their vehicles to
emerge from the USNS Regulus. Some of their stories involve
hardship and sacrifice.
   Lt. David Gray, 26 years old, had a whirlwind, three-month
courtship of Stephanie Rouquie of Savannah, Ga. Starting with
a blind date, they were married Aug. 6. The alert call came
at 2 a.m. the following morning. He had one hour to get to
the base. "We weren't quite asleep yet," he recalls.
   Cpl. Kenneth Simon, 25, and his wife had just settled into
a new apartment in Hinesville, Ga. They had been married for
one year, but for most of that year, Cpl. Simon had been in
South Korea. Their furniture had just arrived when the call
came. Because Cpl. Simon was an M-1 tank driver, he was
needed to fill a vacancy in a departing unit. He wasn't
alone, he says. "When this happened they just started
grabbing people from everywhere. A lot of the folks here were
supposed to go to Germany."
   Every military story has someone like Michael Cook, 20, of
Columbia, Tenn. A fuzzy-cheeked private, he had just finished
five months of basic training when he was told he was going
to Saudi Arabia. "Myself, I didn't believe it. I thought I'd
get some more training."
   A few soldiers didn't make the trip. One of them was a
medic who diagnosed himself insane and threatened suicide.
This was a problem for Chief Warrant Officer Randy Jackson,
37, who heads the medic's unit. "He cracked up and we put him
out of the Army. Better we find out there than over here."
   The 24th is a far cry from the assemblage of National
Guard units and draftees the U.S. landed on the North African
coast in 1942 -- the nation's only previous experience with
desert warfare. They were untrained, poorly equipped and
unprepared to handle the Desert Fox, Germany's Field Marshall
Erwin Rommel.
   Gen. McCaffrey says he juggled emergency shipments from
nine ammunition factories to get the best for his men, who
have the latest high-technology weaponry.
   Until now, U.S. battle plans have relied largely on the
tank-killing capabilities of helicopters to blunt Iraqi
forces, should they move across the border. According to Maj.
Dan Grigson, public affairs officer for the 101st Airborne
Division, the helicopter and airborne units would then "pass
the battle" over to the more heavily armed Marine units
behind them.
   With the addition of the much heavier 24th, the U.S. would
be able to fight a new kind of desert warfare. Its armored
units are trained to fight a moving battle at night, using
communications and targeting systems that give each soldier
an average of 10 times the firepower of soldiers in the
1970s-style Iraqi army, according to Gen. McCaffrey.
   As for the human element, no story would be complete
without the Old Veteran. The soldiers were visited during the
weekend by two congressional delegations, including veterans
from World War II, Korea and Vietnam.
   Among them was Rep. Dante Fascell (D., Fla.), one of those
National Guardsmen mobilized to fight Rommel's Afrika Corps
in 1942. Rep. Fascell, 73, still has vivid memories of
driving a truck through smoking battlefields and seeing
Bedouins removing jewelry from the dead.
   Dining with the soldiers here on freeze-dried field
rations, he recalled evenings when the troops dined on camel
meat, which Rep. Fascell, chairman of the House Foreign
Affairs Committee, says he doesn't recommend.
   While there were some defeats, he said, the Americans and
the British finally drove Rommel from the desert. "Frankly,
the American soldier can adapt to almost anything," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law Brief -- Borland International Inc.:
   Court's Dismissal of Suit
   To Bring Venue Decision
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BORL LOTS
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Borland International Inc. said an action it filed in
federal court in San Francisco against Lotus Development
Corp. was dismissed, thereby allowing the federal court in
Boston to decide where the case should be heard.
   In late June and early July, Borland, based in Scotts
Valley, Calif., and Lotus, based in Cambridge, Mass., filed
lawsuits in San Francisco and Boston both seeking to
determine whether Borland's spreadsheet software would
infringe on any Lotus copyrights covering its 1-2-3
spreadsheets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One analyst, who asked not to be named, said the ruling
was a blow to Borland, because the federal judge in Boston is
presumed to take an expansive view of Lotus's rights in the
case. Earlier this year, Judge Robert Keeton sided with Lotus
in a copyright infringement case involving another software
maker.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Monday, September 3, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/16% - 7 15/16% one month; 8
1/16% - 7 15/16% two months; 8 1/16% - 7 15/16% three months;
8 1/16% - 7 15/16% four months; 8 1/16% 7 15/16% five months;
8 1/8% - 8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/16% one month;
8 1/16% three months; 8 1/8% six months; 8 1/4% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
Friday, August 31, 1990
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/8% high, 7 7/8% low, 7 7/8% near
closing bid, 8 % offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.90% 30 to 44 days; 7.85% 45 to 59 days;
7.80% 60 to 89 days; 7.75% 90 to 149 days; 7.70% 150 to 179
days; 7.60% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8% 30
days; 7.95% 60 days; 7.90% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.65% one month; 7.67% two
months; 7.69% three months; 7.78% six months; 7.92% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 7.95% one month; 7.95% three months;
7.98% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.83% 30 days; 7.76% 60 days; 7.70%
90 days; 7.72% 120 days; 7.66% 150 days; 7.60% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/16% - 7 15/16% one month; 8
1/16% - 7 15/16% two months; 8 1/16% 7 15/16% three months; 8
1/8% - 8% four months; 8 1/8% 8% five months; 8 1/8% - 8% six
months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/16% one month;
8 1/16% three months; 8 1/8% six months; 8 1/4% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14%-14.25%; Germany 10.50%;
Japan 7.13%; Switzerland 10.88; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, August 27, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.49% 13 weeks; 7.48% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.13%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.125%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.08%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.45%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.59%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada's GDP
   Declines, Raising
   Recession Fears
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada's gross domestic product in the second
quarter declined an inflation-adjusted 0.4% from the first
quarter, raising fears that the country has entered a
recession.
   The GDP decline, which was reported by the government
Friday, followed 7 1/2 years of economic growth.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Finance Minister Michael Wilson told reporters the economy
was "catching its breath," after a longer-than-usual period
of strong growth.
   The minister said that he wasn't ruling out a recession,
but that it is too early to predict one. A recession is
usually defined as involving at least two consecutive
quarters of GDP decline. GDP is the total value of a
country's output of goods and services. In the first quarter,
Canada's GDP rose 0.5%.
   Statistics Canada, the government agency that compiles the
GDP data, said all major components of domestic demand
declined in the second quarter. Corporate profits and
personal disposable income also fell.
   Business spending on plant and equipment declined an
inflation-adjusted 2.9% from the first quarter. Consumer
spending on goods and services shrank 0.4%, the first such
decline since 1982.
   Statistics Canada attributed the decline in consumer
spending to high interest rates, a drop in disposable income,
and recession fears. It said high interest rates also damped
business spending.
   The Canadian dollar declined Friday in Toronto to 86.43
U.S. cents from 87.18 cents Thursday, on speculation that the
second-quarter GDP decline would prompt the Bank of Canada to
relax its monetary restraints to prevent a recession.
   The central bank's monetary curbs have kept short-term
interest rates more than five percentage points above U.S.
rates in recent months, attracting a heavy flow of foreign
funds into Canada.
   Ted Carmichael, an economist at Burns Fry Ltd., a
Toronto-based securities company, said the Bank of Canada now
"has evidence that the economy is falling into a recession."
But he predicted the central bank will be cautious in
lowering interest rates, to avoid a flight of foreign capital
from Canada.
   Gerard MacDonell, a Royal Bank of Canada economist, said
he expects the central bank to respond cautiously to the
latest GDP data, because of concern about persisting
inflationary pressures in Canada. He said labor income has
continued to grow strongly, despite the economic downturn. He
said the central bank also is concerned about the
inflationary effect of a 7% consumption tax that the
government proposes to introduce Jan. 1.
   A Bank of Nova Scotia economist, Aron Gampel, said:
"Policymakers face a challenging outlook. Activity is
slumping, while inflation pressures are being aggravated by
higher taxes and escalating labor costs."
   Statistics Canada reported separately Friday that Canada's
deficit on the current account of its international balance
of payments narrowed to 4.49 billion Canadian dollars
(US$3.88 billion) in the second quarter from a C$5.02 billion
gap in the January-March period. The seasonally adjusted
current account is an accounting of trade in goods and
services. It also includes payments and receipts of interest
and dividends.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Lone Star Technologies Inc.:
   All Preferred Held by U.S.
   In Thrift Unit Is Redeemed
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LSST
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Lone Star Technologies Inc., Dallas, said its American
Federal Bank subsidiary redeemed all of its preferred stock
held by federal regulators, giving Lone Star 100% control of
the thrift.
   Lone Star, which also owns a troubled steelmaking company,
said American Federal redeemed the $48 million Class A
convertible preferred stock issue by canceling a $48 million
note that regulators owed the thrift and by paying regulators
$3.7 million. Cumulative accrued and unpaid dividends due
regulators were canceled, resulting in income to the thrift
of about $3.7 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. resolution
fund purchased the preferred in 1988 as part of a $1.3
billion bailout that combined 12 insolvent thrifts into
American Federal. Lone Star paid $48 million for all the
common stock of the resulting institution.
   A Lone Star spokeswoman said regulators also agreed to
give American Federal "more flexibility" to pay dividends.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gulf Resources' Moves to Acquire Assets
   In New Zealand Are Concern for EPA
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   GRE T.GOU FREST
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   Officials of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said
they are "concerned" about Gulf Resources &amp; Chemical Corp.'s
decision to invest much of its assets in New Zealand while it
potentially faces tens of millions of dollars in liabilities
for an environmental cleanup.
   Separately, New Zealand regulators have begun an
investigation of alleged insider-trading violations by Gulf
Resources officials in connection with the company's
investments there, according to the EPA. Lawrence Mehl, Gulf
Resources' general counsel, confirmed that New Zealand
authorities had "looked into" possible violations by the
company earlier this year. "I am unaware of" current
investigations by New Zealand regulators, he added. New
Zealand authorities couldn't be reached for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The EPA's worries about Gulf Resources, based in Boston,
stem from the company's acquisition earlier this year of a
62% stake in City Realties Ltd., New Zealand, in a
transaction valued at about $150 million. "To the extent
{Gulf Resources} no longer has assets in the U.S., it may be
difficult for the government to collect" payments from it for
cleanup of the now-defunct Bunker Hill smelter in northern
Idaho, said Allan Bakalian, an assistant regional counsel
with the EPA in Seattle.
   The 21-square-mile Bunker Hill site, contaminated with
lead, zinc and other metals, is one of the nation's largest
cleanup projects under the federal government's Superfund
program. Gulf Resources, which operated the smelter from 1968
to 1982, is negotiating with the government over its share of
the cleanup costs, which could be more than $100 million, the
EPA said. Gulf Resources also owes pension benefits
associated with the smelter that have been estimated to total
as much as $100 million.
   As reported, in an agreement last year with the EPA, Gulf
Resources amended a reorganization plan that would have made
it a unit of a Bermuda concern, potentially exempting it from
liability for the smelter cleanup. Among other things, Gulf
Resources agreed to give the U.S. government advance written
notice before issuing any dividends or common stock or making
any loans exceeding $50 million to the Bermuda holding
company that was to have acquired it.
   But while bargaining with government lawyers last October
about its planned transfer of assets to Bermuda, Gulf
Resources was quietly negotiating New Zealand transactions
that invested much of its assets overseas, said the EPA's Mr.
Bakalian. "They never told us they were doing that" until the
New Zealand transaction was closed in January, he added.
"We're concerned they weren't totally forthright."
   Currently, it isn't clear what actions the government may
take, if any, concerning Gulf Resources' overseas
investments. But if the company refuses to pay its cleanup
liabilities, "there are options the EPA has to collect" them
even if the concern's assets are invested outside the U.S.,
Mr. Bakalian said.
   In Boston, Gulf Resources' Mr. Mehl said, "I'm not sure I
understand the EPA's concern. At the time we signed contracts
to buy New Zealand properties last January, we made a very
full public announcement."
   In another development, San Francisco businessman Donald
S. Kennedy confirmed that his D.S. Kennedy &amp; Co. recently
raised its stake in Gulf Resources to 24.4% from about 22%.
The concern earlier said it may seek control of Gulf
Resources, which is now controlled by British corporate
raider and real estate investor David J. Rowland.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Toyota Motor Raises
   Lexus LS 400 Price
   By 8.8% to $38,000
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   C.HYU TOYOY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORRANCE, Calif. -- Toyota Motor Corp.'s U.S. sales arm is
raising the base price of its 1991-model Lexus LS 400 luxury
sedan to $38,000, up 8.8% from the introductory price last
fall.
   The increase is the second price rise for the LS 400 since
it was introduced. In May, Toyota raised the sedan's price by
$1,000 to $36,000. Toyota attributed the latest increase,
which takes effect in the middle of this month, in part to
new standard equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 1991 LS 400 will have a new feature that allows
drivers to operate the power windows with the ignition turned
off, new remote control door locks, and new equipment to
ensure that the car will pass emission testing anywhere in
the U.S., Toyota said.
   Despite the price increase, the LS 400 remains less
expensive than several of its European luxury car rivals,
such as the Mercedes-Benz 300 E model. Late last month,
Mercedes raised the 1991 300 E sedan's price to $47,200, up
2.7% from a year ago.
   Toyota also increased the 1991 base price of its smaller
and less-popular Lexus ES 250 model to $21,300, a 1.2%
increase from the year-ago starting price of $21,050.
   Separately, the U.S. sales arm of Hyundai Motor Corp.
raised prices of its 1991 model cars as much as 7%.
   The Korean auto maker boosted the price of its most
expensive model, the V-6 powered Sonata with four-speed
automatic transmission to $12,170, up 6.9% from a year ago.
The Sonata model equipped with a standard five-speed manual
transmission now starts at $10,700, up 7% from $9,999 a year
earlier.
   Hyundai increased the price of its cheapest subcompact
Excel hatchback to $6,275, up 6.4% from $5,899 a year ago.
The price of the four-door Excel model rose to $7,410, up
5.9% from $6,999 a year ago.
   Hyundai said the price increases reflect in part new
standard equipment such as power steering, seat-height
adjusters, side molding, and body-color bumpers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Adolph Coors Faces Criminal Charges
   On Water-Pollution Case in Colorado
   ----
   By Kevin Helliker
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ACCOB
</CO>
<IN>
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   The attorney general of Colorado is investigating charges
that Adolph Coors Co., leader of a national campaign to clean
up the nation's waters, knowingly hid the fact that it had
leaky pipes at a can plant, pipes that allegedly contaminated
nearby springs in the 1970s and early 1980s.
   The investigation means that Coors, which already faces
civil charges of water-law violation, could be slapped with
criminal charges as well. Both could result in financial
penalties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Already, though, the allegations represent a
public-relations disaster. Coors, based in Golden, Colo., has
long boasted in its advertisements about the pureness of its
beer because it contains Rocky Mountain spring water. And
these days Peter Coors, brewery division president, can be
seen on national television encouraging viewers to follow
Coors in its support of Pure Water 2000, an environmental
organization to which the company last year decided to donate
$1 million.
   The company's credibility as a clean-water crusader isn't
helped by the water-pollution charges, acknowledged Coors
spokesman Jon Goldman. "We're facing some embarrassment," he
said.
   The alleged contamination by Coors was first disclosed
early this year by a Colorado television station after
receiving a tip.
   In response, Coors hired an attorney to investigate, and
the resulting report confirmed that contamination had
occurred, but not to a degree that posed any health hazard.
   Coors presented its findings to the Colorado Department of
Health's Water Quality Control Division, which conducted its
own investigation and in June brought civil charges against
the company. The agency contended, among other things, that
groundwater contaminated with organic chemicals, including
one probable carcinogen, was released from a well under the
company's can plant into Clear Creek, a source of water for
five municipalities, from 1982 to 1985.
   The violations carry civil fines of up to $10,000 a day,
and Coors' illegal discharges continued for more than 4,000
days, the agency's report said. In contamination cases of
long duration, fines are usually negotiated, or else
determined by a judge.
   In June, Sandra Woods, Coors vice president for
environmental affairs, predicted that within 30 days a
penalty would be negotiated that she said would be "very fair
to Coors."
   But more than two months later, no agreement has been
reached, and though Coors officials say they still hope to
settle the matter out of court, an investigator for the water
agency, Patricia Nelson, said last week that she saw little
chance of that. "We are going forward with plans for a formal
hearing" before a judge, she said.
   Now, with the attorney general having instituted his own
investigation, Coors could find itself under attack in two
separate legal arenas.
   For their part, Coors officials said the attorney
general's investigation came as no surprise. "When we brought
this problem to the attention of the state we expected these
investigations, and we are fully cooperating," Mr. Goldman
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Autos:
   Ford Suffers Downturn in Market Share
   As Sales of New Escort Start Sluggishly
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DEARBORN, Mich. -- When the year began, Ford Motor Co. was
on a roll in the U.S. auto market.
   Company executives told reporters that Ford's situation so
differed from beleaguered General Motors Corp. and Chrysler
Corp. that they no longer considered Ford part of the U.S.
Big Three. Alexander Trotman, who runs Ford's huge North
American auto operations, declared that, despite tougher
competition, "we don't have it in our plans to lose market
share."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the best-laid plans sometimes go astray.
   Ford, including its Lincoln and Mercury lines, took just
20.4% of U.S. car sales in this year's first seven months,
down more than two full percentage points from 1989. Now it
appears nearly impossible for Ford to equal its car-market
share of last year. A decline would be the company's first
since 1986.
   The big problem is the Escort. Ford spent $1.9 billion to
develop a new version of the economy car, but Escort sales
are running 22% behind a year ago. Taurus and Mercury Sable
sales also have dropped, and sales of the venerable Mustang
have fallen off a cliff.
   Not that Ford is mired in gloom. Far from it. The new
Explorer sport-utility vehicle is a smash hit that has
Chrysler's Jeep Cherokee on the run and Ford's truck-market
share on the rise. Another big success is the new, rounded
Lincoln Town Car, which has moved Lincoln within striking
distance of GM's Cadillac division as the No. 1 seller of
luxury cars.
   Ford officials also expect sales of the Escort and its
sister model, the Mercury Tracer, to improve in the second
half. "Most of our bad news is behind us," says Thomas
Wagner, head of the Ford brand marketing division, the
company's largest. "I feel a great wind in our sails."
   Nonetheless, the company's first-half performance is
enough to make Ford watchers, and some company officials,
nervous. Just two years ago, Ford was making more money than
any car company in history, sitting atop a $9 billion cash
hoard and virtually free of debt. But this year, first-half
profits fell 58%. The cash kitty has melted away, because of
some big acquisitions and the fact that Ford's first-half
capital spending exceeded GM's for the first time in modern
history. The company borrowed $2.6 billion in the second
quarter alone.
   "They've lost momentum," says David Healy, an analyst with
Barclays de Zoete Wedd. "Most of their most recent model
introductions, with the exception of Explorer, haven't been
terribly successful. And some of their older, more successful
models like Taurus/Sable are getting a little long in the
tooth."
   When the new Escort was introduced in April, Ford
officials called it the most important launch in company
history. That's because strong sales of the fuel-efficient
Escort would allow Ford to keep selling its highly profitable
big cars -- such as the Town Car -- while complying with
federal fuel economy requirements. The profits from the big
cars, Mr. Wagner explained in April, would help "fund
new-product programs in the middle 1990s."
   Four months later, Mr. Wagner concedes that the Escort
launch hasn't gone smoothly. First, the new Escorts were
forced to compete with 60,000 old-model Escorts that looked
similar, cost less, and carried a $1,000 rebate to boot.
Customers promptly turned their back on the new Escort,
despite its peppier engine and improved suspension.
   "We kind of confused the public by advertising the new
Escort," says Mr. Wagner, "and when they came to the
dealership, they saw the old Escort."
   Ford got in this bind because it continued to manufacture
old 1990-model Escorts for a month after the first new
1991-model Escorts arrived in dealer showrooms in April. Ford
took this unusual step to be sure it didn't run out of
Escorts while production of the new model was gradually
increasing to full speed. Ford underestimated the
difficulties of selling two cars at the same time "with the
same name and different model years," says Mr. Wagner, and
now regrets the move.
   By now, most old Escorts have been sold, but other
problems remain. Production start-up difficulties caused Ford
to run short of the two models that have proved most popular
with customers: the Escort station wagon and the sporty
Escort GT. Ford says it doesn't expect to have the proper
"model mix" until Oct. 1.
   Moreover, the Escort's market segment, subcompacts, is
extremely competitive. Sales in this segment have plunged 17%
so far this year, far more than the 2.5% decline in overall
car and truck sales. Ford's competitors have attacked the
problem with sales incentives to consumers or dealers,
forcing the company to abandon its hope of selling the new
Escort without such price cuts.
   In early August, Ford started offering cut-rate 4.8%
financing on Escort and Tracer loans up to 48 months. The
daily selling rate of Escorts has almost doubled since then,
says Robert Rewey, Ford's vice president of sales. "We said,
`Now is the time to put {our} dealers nose to nose with the
Japanese,' and that's what we've done," Mr. Rewey says. "And
I think that's beginning to show in the market."
   Dealers and analysts expect the new Escort to do well in
the long run, especially if the subcompact market gets a
boost from rising gasoline prices. But they also note that
the Escort will face growing competition this fall. Nissan
Motor Co. is preparing to introduce a new Sentra subcompact,
and GM will launch its Saturn car in October. Honda Motor Co.
is expected to roll out a new Civic next year.
   The Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable already are being hurt
by new competition. Their sales have dropped 12% so far this
year, in contrast to a gain of more than 20% for the 1990
Honda Accord, which became larger to compete squarely against
the two Ford cars. GM also has introduced a stable of new
four-door sedans.
   "The Taurus is a hell of a car, but it hasn't changed in a
long time," says Wayne Harding, a Ford dealer in Santa
Monica, Calif. Indeed, while the Taurus certainly was the
most influential car design of the 1980s, it hasn't been
restyled since its introduction in December 1985. For a year,
Ford has been trying to address that issue with advertising
-- specifically, a campaign that says: "If you introduced it
today, the Ford Taurus would still be ahead of its time."
   But more substantive changes may be needed. Ford is making
one this fall by giving Taurus and Sable an electronically
controlled automatic transmission, which provides better fuel
economy and acceleration than the current transmission. The
Taurus will also get a more powerful, four-cylinder base
engine. But partly as a result, the price of the cheapest
Taurus will jump by $1,077, or 8.5%. The Taurus will get a
minor styling update next year, but not until the 1995 model
year will it get an all-new exterior and engine.
   Taurus, though, is just a young pup compared with today's
Mustang. Though it was "freshened up" four years ago, the
current version of the Mustang essentially dates from 1978.
"The Mustang is just old," says auto analyst Maryann Keller
of Furman Selz Inc.
   Ford executives, however, dispute the notion that the
Mustang is running out of gas. Last year's sales, notes Mr.
Wagner, were pumped up by 28,000 Mustangs sold early in the
year to rental companies in conjuction with the 25th
anniversary of the Mustang. Excluding that, he says, Mustang
sales this year have fallen only slightly from 1989.
   Whatever the reasons, Ford's market-share struggles in the
U.S. come at a difficult time for the company. Just last
fall, Ford shelled out $2.5 billion to buy Jaguar PLC, and it
may have to spend that much more again to turn around the
British car maker. Ford also -- to its credit -- is spending
heavily to bring out a badly needed line of engines and
transmissions for its own cars. And it will face additional
capital spending to redo the Mustang, Taurus and other aging
Ford products.
   Dealers are optimistic that the company's short-term pain
will pay off. In the 1980s, "Ford came out with a lot of new
products and really increased market share," says Mr.
Harding, the Ford dealer from Santa Monica. "We're in the
trough now, but we've got to wait for our new products and
we'll regain market share."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Domino's Craps Out
   As a Suburb Refuses
   To Gamble on Safety
   ---
   Big Pizza Chain Franchise
   Refused Business License;
   Auto Accidents Are Cited
   ----
   By Chip Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAFAYETTE, Calif. -- It's official. Domino's Pizza is just
too much of a potential safety hazard for downtown Lafayette,
in the opinion of its city council.
   The nation's biggest pizza chain has been under fire in
recent years because of traffic accidents, including a number
of fatal accidents, involving its pizza deliverers. Critics
charge that some of the accidents occurred because the
deliverers were rushing to fulfill the company's 30-minute
delivery guarantee. Domino's guarantees customers a $3 rebate
if delivery takes longer than 30 minutes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lafayette, an affluent suburb east of San Francisco, is
the first city to refuse to grant a business license to a
Domino's franchisee because of the safety issue, according to
Domino's. A Domino's franchisee was seeking a license for a
location downtown within 100 feet of two nursery schools, a
senior citizens complex and a church.
   "We have no prejudice against them whatsoever, but we
think the site they chose would cause a potential safety
hazard," said Richard Holmes, Lafayette's mayor.
   "There's a little twist in each community you go into, but
we've never dealt with anyone as unreasonable as this," said
Dan Gearing, co-owner of the Domino's franchise.
   Domino's headquarters, in Detroit, says the deliverers'
accidents are the result of driving about 450 million miles a
year, delivering an estimated 275 million pizza pies in wind,
snow, sleet and rain. Domino's denies any connection between
the accidents -- about 100 last year -- and the company's
30-minute delivery guarantee. A company spokesman said he
isn't aware of a franchisee ever being turned down because of
the perception of poor driving habits. Domino's says it
encourages franchisees to provide instruction programs that
teach safe-driving techniques to Domino's drivers.
   The city did give Domino's a choice: waive the 30-minute
guarantee or relocate the business to the outskirts of town.
   Dolly's Pizza, formerly a Domino's is on the city's
fringe, and Cybelle's Pizza operates downtown. Each store
offers delivery service but neither promises 30-minute
delivery.
   But even if the Domino's franchisee waived the guarantee,
the city wanted to subject the business to stiff fines for
traffic violations, starting at $250 for the first offense,
moving up to $1,000 for the fourth offense. The fourth
offense would also give Lafayette the right to revoke the
franchisee's business license.
   Mr. Gearing said he and his partner will confer with
Domino's regional office before taking any further action.
Mr. Gearing's attorney, Donn Black, thinks there could be a
hidden agenda here: the city council may feel Domino's isn't
upscale enough for downtown Lafayette.
   Aldine Koreneff, director of the nearby nursery, has made
her feelings known. Not only does she fear for the safety of
her charges, she adds, "I don't even like Domino's Pizza."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush to Bolster
   Alliance in Fight
   Against Iraqis
   ---
   U.S. May Forgive Egypt's
   Military Debt; Summit
   With Gorbachev Is Set
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib and Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MDEST FORGN EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush plans an intensive campaign
to shore up support in the Soviet Union, Western Europe, Asia
and America's own Congress for the international campaign
against Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
   The first step is likely to come today or tomorrow, when
the administration expects to announce a plan to forgive much
of Egypt's nearly $7 billion in military debts to the U.S.
Egypt has been America's most stalwart Arab ally in opposing
Iraq's invasion, and the debt relief is intended as a signal
that the U.S. is prepared to aid those in the Arab world who
endure economic pain by abiding by the trade ban against
Iraq.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The second step will come at the end of the week, when Mr.
Bush heads for Finland for a one-day summit meeting Sunday
with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. Though the meeting also
will deal with conventional-arms negotiations, the key
American objective will be to solidify Soviet participation
in the international campaign against Iraq.
   Such moves to strengthen the anti-Iraq alliance are
important because it seems increasingly likely that Mr. Bush
is headed for a lengthy test of wills with Iraqi leader
Saddam Hussein. And for the moment, that means the Persian
Gulf crisis is as much a test of America's diplomatic skills
as its military strength.
   Weekend talks between United Nations Secretary-General
Javier Perez de Cuellar and Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz
failed to make any progress toward dislodging Iraq from
Kuwait. The only sign of a waver in Iraqi resolve was its
decision to allow several hundred foreigners to leave in the
past few days.
   The State Department said this included 47 Americans, who
landed at Dulles International Airport outside Washington
this weekend. The department also said 59 Americans were
among another group that arrived in Frankfurt, West Germany,
early Sunday morning and remained there overnight before
beginning to make their way back to the U.S. In a statement
over the weekend, the department said: "We understand that
the departure of several individuals was facilitated by the
Rev. Jesse Jackson."
   Yesterday, Baghdad balked at allowing more airlifts of
foreigners, and told nations with citizens trapped in Iraq to
send them food, the Associated Press reported. Separately,
the official Iraqi News agency reported that Iraq had
suspended repaying its foreign debt, which is estimated at
$30 billion to $35 billion. Most of the money is owed to the
U.S., Britain, France, the Soviet Union, West Germany and
Japan.
   Mr. Perez de Cuellar, who acknowledged that he hadn't made
any progress in his talks, specifically pointed to the
Bush-Gorbachev meeting as the next event that could produce
progress toward a diplomatic settlement of the international
showdown with Iraq. But U.S. officials are playing down such
suggestions, and the meeting seems more likely to be an
occasion for coordinating superpower pressure on Baghdad than
one for discussing diplomatic solutions.
   Mr. Bush is making it clear that he won't seek for the
Soviets to act as mediators between the U.S. and Iraq. "I
don't see a mediating role at all, and I don't think the
Soviets see themselves having a mediating role," Mr. Bush
told reporters before returning to Washington from a long
Labor Day weekend at his Maine vacation home. "There are a
lot of mediators out there trying hard, Secretary-General de
Cuellar being in the forefront of this." Mr. Bush also said
that Yemen appears interested in trying to mediate the
dispute with Iraq, but the president again expressed little
optimism that diplomatic contact can change Iraqi behavior.
   The Soviet Union traditionally has been Iraq's most
important military ally, and the Kremlin's quick and
unequivocal condemnation of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait was
instrumental in allowing clear United Nations penalties
against Iraq.
   But in recent days, there have been hints that Soviet
enthusiasm is flagging. Perhaps most importantly, Soviet
military officials are beginning to question why the Kremlin
seems to be endorsing a big American military buildup in
Saudi Arabia, just a few hundred miles from the Soviet
border.
   So it may be important to hold a superpower summit now so
that Mr. Bush can directly tell Soviet leaders that, while
the U.S. would like to leave behind some kind of military
presence in Saudi Arabia when the Iraq crisis ends, the
current buildup of tens of thousands of soldiers is
temporary.
   It also will become increasingly important that the
Soviets continue the embargo on arms supplies to Iraq that
they imposed immediately after the invasion. The U.S. would
like to be sure that the Iraqis don't get the spare parts and
supplies necessary to keep more than 100,000 soldiers on duty
in a sustained occupation of Kuwait, where they must fight
sporadic battles against bands of Kuwaiti resistance
fighters.
   Mr. Bush also may want to get the Soviets to withdraw
their military advisers from Iraq. The Kremlin says those
advisers are staying only because they are under contract,
and Soviet officials imply that they are reluctant to call
the advisers home out of fear of reprisals against Soviet
citizens in Iraq and Kuwait.
   At the same time, the U.S. will be trying to illustrate
that financial compensation will flow from the international
community to nations that suffer from complying with the
trade embargo against Iraq. The U.S. is in a position to give
the most important possible economic relief to one hard-hit
country, Egypt, by forgiving that nation's increasingly
onerous burden of debts to the U.S.
   Egypt's military and civilian indebtedness to the U.S.
totals some $12 billion, and it is $1.2 billion to $1.5
billion behind in its repayments. The military portion of
that debt totals about $6.7 billion, administration officials
say, and the State Department already had scheduled meetings
to discuss debt relief even before the Iraqi invasion of
Kuwait.
   Mr. Bush can't forgive the debt himself, but he intends to
ask Congress to agree to do so. The president will have to
overcome longstanding congressional resistance to debt
forgiveness.
   For one thing, despite general gratitude for Egypt's role
in opposing Iraq, there will be worries about what the
effects of forgiving such a large chunk of debt will be on
the federal deficit. The Bush administration is contemplating
ways to finesse the deficit problem and still forgive the
debt. For instance, the U.S. might use an accounting gimmick
to reduce the budget impact of debt forgiveness, pegging the
value of the Egyptian loans at so-called current-market value
rather than their face value. Since economically strapped
Egypt doesn't appear to be in any shape to pay off its debt
now, the market value of the loans could be counted as
billions less than the face value.
   Beyond the budget impact, Congress has been leery of
forgiving debts because doing so might open the floodgates
for other countries, and domestic lobbies such as farmers, to
demand similar relief. In particular, Israel would demand
similar benefits from the U.S.
   Most of Egypt's military debts to the U.S. date from 1979
to 1983, the years immediately after the Camp David peace
treaties, when the U.S. carefully maintained symmetry in aid
to Egypt and Israel as part of an informal understanding.
After 1983, military aid was switched from loans to grants.
   Israel's supporters will argue that writing off Egypt's
debt and not Israel's debt would represent the first
asymmetry in dealing with the Camp David partners --
something pro-Israel forces will fight vigorously. "If
there's going to be debt relief for Egypt, you can be sure
that friends of Israel will make a top priority out of
getting forgiveness for Israel's debt, too," said one
pro-Israel activist. Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy will
be coming to Washington Wednesday for talks with Secretary of
State James Baker, and the debt issue is sure to be high on
the agenda.
   As the U.S. moves to help Egypt, a show of support from
American friends such as West Germany, Italy and Japan is
important if Mr. Bush is to continue persuading Americans
that the campaign against Iraq remains an international
rather than an American effort. In addition to Egypt,
administration officials want such allies to give economic
aid to Turkey and Jordan to repay them for the economic
hardships they will endure for abiding by the international
trade ban against Iraq. And the U.S. wants more material
support for the American, Arab and European military forces
massing around Iraq.
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady will leave early this
week for a trip to Asia to try to persuade Japan, South Korea
and Singapore to do more. And Mr. Baker leaves for a similar
mission to Western Europe and the oil-rich Gulf states later
in the week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Urges Boost
   From Industries
   To Aid Gulf Force
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The Japanese government called in the leaders of
six major manufacturing industries and urged their "utmost
cooperation" in supplying U.S. forces in Saudi Arabia.
   Cooperation would include adding production capacity to
meet the needs of U.S. and other forces challenging Iraq,
shipping the forces goods intended for other customers and
billing the goods at cost, government officials said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Japanese government would foot the bill for the goods
as part of the $1 billion in assistance to the multinational
forces it pledged a week ago, officials said.
   The Japanese government will purchase items in the name of
U.S. forces, from foreign suppliers as well as Japanese. But
the emphasis will be on Japanese suppliers, because the
government can more easily persuade Japanese companies to
bill at cost.
   The industry leaders called in by the Ministry of
International Trade and Industry were the heads of industry
associations for construction equipment, industrial
machinery, automobiles, iron and steel, electronics and
plastics.
   The government has been stung by international criticism
that its contribution in the Persian Gulf crisis was too
little, too late. While denying that there will be a second
package of measures beyond those announced Wednesday, the
officials tried to flesh out details of previously vague
promises and explain points that may have been misunderstood
overseas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Outboard Marine Corp.:
   Concern Plans $33 Million
   Charge in Its 4th Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OM
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Outboard Marine Corp., citing an "industrywide slump in
marine products sales," plans to take a $33 million
restructuring charge in the fourth quarter ending Sept. 30.
   That will bring the total of such charges in this fiscal
year to about $47.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The actions involve closure of facilities, including three
retail outlets. Outboard said it is also in the process of
closing three U.S. boat manufacturing plants and an office
facility, as well as an Australian outboard motor assembly
plant.
   The boat-manufacturing plants scheduled for closure will
have their production consolidated into other plants, the
company said, and Australian dealers will be provided with
outboard motors made in the U.S. and other countries.
   The Waukegan, Ill.-based company's nautical-fashion
apparel, formerly sold through its retail outlets, will now
be sold through boat dealerships and a catalog sales
operation.
   Included in the charges for the current quarter are $16
million in one-time charges and write-offs. Additional
charges are under consideration, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pinnacle West
   Bid Abandoned
   By PacifiCorp
   ---
   `Power Swap' Is Set Instead;
   Pinnacle Utility May Get
   As Much as $260 Million
   ----
   By Jill Bettner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   PNW PPW NVP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   PacifiCorp agreed to drop its pursuit of Pinnacle West
Capital Corp., ending a 10-month battle, in exchange for
seasonal "power swaps" with Pinnacle West's Arizona utility
unit in a pact potentially valued at $260 million.
   PacifiCorp would get about half the additional power
capacity it had sought in repeated attempts to acquire
Pinnacle West or its Arizona Public Service Co. under the
agreement. PacifiCorp had talked of a hostile bid after
Pinnacle West's board rejected its latest bid of $1.82
billion, or $21 a share, in May as financially inadequate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A.M. Gleason, PacifiCorp president and chief executive
officer, said he would rather have gained all of Arizona
Public, making PacifiCorp the country's biggest
investor-owned utility. "But we made a judgment based on
economics and concluded this was a satisfactory alternative."
   For Pinnacle West shareholders, "this is a real shocker,"
said Edward J. Tirello, a utility analyst at Smith Barney,
Harris Upham &amp; Co. "It leaves them with a basketful of
promises and no money. I wouldn't be surprised if the stock
drops to $12 a share."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Pinnacle West shares closed at $16.125, up 12.5 cents and
PacifiCorp closed at $19.375, up 50 cents. The power swap was
announced after the close of trading.
   During the weekend, Richard Snell, Pinnacle West
president, chairman and chief executive officer, said that
the pact doesn't include a formal standstill agreement with
PacifiCorp but that lawyers are drafting one.
   Mr. Snell added that further hostilities would be
"inconsistent" with the new rapport between the companies'
chief executives. They and aides crafted the power swap over
the past two weeks, working mostly at a Las Vegas hotel to
ensure secrecy.
   Pinnacle West, based in Phoenix, Ariz., is a holding
company whose Arizona Public is the state's largest utility.
PacifiCorp is a Portland, Ore., electric utility whose
service territories cover parts of seven states reaching east
from the Pacific Northwest to Utah, but which exclude Arizona
and Nevada.
   Analysts quickly theorized that Nevada Power could be
PacifiCorp's next takeover target. "I wouldn't speculate on
whether we would or wouldn't do anything beyond this
transaction," Mr. Gleason said.
   State and federal regulators must approve the 30-year
agreement, which could take several months. PacifiCorp would
gain a partial interest in two units of Arizona Public's
Cholla coal-fired power plant, giving it about 350 additional
megawatts of capacity during its peak winter season at
relatively low cost. Analysts said it is paying about $600 a
kilowatt hour to Pinnacle West for the Cholla capacity, far
less than the $2,000 a kilowatt hour cost of a new plant.
   PacifiCorp would initially sell back half of its Cholla
capacity to Arizona Public between May and October, when that
utility's power needs are greatest.
   After five years, the agreement would allow Arizona Public
to buy back all of that power during the hottest six months
of the year. The two companies also agreed to share some
transmission facilities.
   If regulators approve the pact, PacifiCorp would
immediately pay Arizona Public $220 million. It would pay
Arizona Public another $40 million over the next five years
if Arizona Public added more transmission lines.
   Although power-sharing is used by several Northeastern
utilities, "this is probably the first between regions this
far apart and with these kinds of climactic differences,"
said Mr. Gleason.
   Pinnacle West would get badly needed cash from the
arrangement for its plan to pay about $600 million of debt by
the end of 1993 and restore its common-stock dividend. The
company suspended its payout of 40 cents a share last October
in the face of mounting losses from its MeraBank thrift unit,
which was seized by federal regulators in January.
   The PacifiCorp pact "probably won't affect that
timetable," said Mr. Snell. But he added that Pinnacle West
will further reduce its requested rate increase. The company
revised its initial request for a 22% boost over the next
three years in June after unveiling a cost-squeezing plan.
The PacifiCorp agreement won't increase job reductions slated
in the plan for this year.
   Mr. Snell said Pinnacle West remains uninterested in a
$500 million offer by Salt River Project, a
quasi-municipality, for some of Arizona Public's transmission
facilities. A Salt River spokesman said that, as before, it
wouldn't pursue its offer aggressively, "but we need time to
analyze what effect this agreement will have on us. Other
utilities in the Southwest will be doing the same thing."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing Co. Receives $6 Billion Order
   From Up-and-Coming Korean Carrier
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   BA FREST U.GPA MD NWA F.ABI F.ASP G.MES U.BA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Boeing Co. received a $6 billion order from Asiana
Airlines, a new South Korean carrier.
   Asiana placed firm orders for 27 Boeing aircraft valued at
about $3 billion and took options for 24 other planes, also
valued at about $3 billion. The Asiana order, which was
expected, is for six 747-400 passenger jets, three 747-400
freighters, 10 767-300 jets and eight 737-400 jets. The
planes are scheduled for delivery between 1993 and 1999.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, GPA Group Ltd. of Ireland, one of the world's
largest airliner-leasing companies, said it ordered as many
as 25 McDonnell Douglas MD-11 long-range aircraft, valued at
about $2.5 billion.
   McDonnell Douglas couldn't be reached for comment, but GPA
said the order comprises 13 firm orders and options on 12
more MD-11s, due for delivery between 1995 and 1999. Graham
Boyd, GPA's managing director for new aircraft acquisitions,
told reporters at the biennial Farnborough air show near
London that the company has no customers yet for the new
planes.
   Also at the show, NWA Inc. announced it had converted
options on 75 Airbus Industrie A-320 commercial jets into
firm orders and had taken new options on 30 A-321 aircraft in
a transaction valued at $4.6 billion. NWA, the
Minneapolis-based parent of Northwest Airlines, said it would
be operating 100 A-320s by 1995. It already has eight of the
150-seat short-haul to medium-haul airliners in operation.
Northwest said the new options for the A-321 were convertible
into A-320s before 1994 and were for delivery after 1996.
   Airbus, a consortium comprising Aerospatiale of France,
Messerschmitt-Boelkow-Blohm G.m.b.H. of West Germany, British
Aerospace PLC and Construcciones Aeronauticas S.A. of Spain.,
also announced at the air show that it may be profitable this
year, which would be a first in the consortium's 20-year
history. Managing Director Jean Pierson said "we might be in
the black" for 1990, on revenue of about $5 billion. He
declined to elaborate on the sum. Airbus had said it would
become profitable in 1994 or 1995.
   He said the consortium probably will receive 300 to 350
firm orders this year, down from last year's record 421
orders but above the 270 orders forecast earlier this year
for 1990.
   Asiana, South Korea's No. 2 airline, is moving quickly to
set up an international carrier network in the fast-growing
Asian region. Formed in 1988 by South Korean industrial
conglomerate Khumo Group, Asiana began by flying charter
services with leased jetliners. Emboldened by the
government's policy on airline deregulation, the carrier has
since moved into scheduled flights and began expanding
overseas last January. The Seoul-based company plans to
expand service to the U.S. in the fall of 1991, with other
routes through Asia. The company has grown so fast that it
had to lure pilots away from its well-established rival,
Korean Air, until Korean Air asked the government to ban the
practice. Asiana has a leased fleet of 10 Boeing 737-400s and
two 737-500s.
   Also at the airshow, British Airways PLC confirmed that it
has deferred decision on ordering new aircraft, partly
because of the Persian Gulf crisis. A spokeswoman for the
company, Britain's largest airline operator, said it was
originally due to announce around this time a decision on
replacing aging aircraft, primarily its fleet of eight
DC-10s.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- General Dynamics Corp.:
   Unit Gets Job to Launch
   An Italian-Dutch Satellite
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GD EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Dynamics Commercial Launch Services Inc., a San
Diego-based unit of General Dynamics Corp., St. Louis, said
it signed a contract with an agency of the Italian government
to launch a scientific satellite.
   Terms weren't disclosed, but it is known that General
Dynamics usually charges between $50 million and $60 million
for its Atlas I launch service.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The satellite, a joint project of Italy and the
Netherlands, will study X-ray emissions in space, General
Dynamics said. The 2,868-pound satellite is to be launched
from the Air Force station at Cape Canaveral, Fla., in 1994.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Royal Trustco Ltd.:
   Credit Lyonnais Buys Some
   Asset-Management Segments
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.RYL F.CLC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Royal Trustco Ltd. said it sold the Hong Kong and
Singapore-based asset-management operations of its Royal
Trust Asset Management Asia Ltd. unit to Credit Lyonnais.
   Terms of the sale weren't disclosed. Royal Trust said it
expects to report a gain on the sale, but that it will have
"no material effect" on Royal Trustco's profits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Royal Trust said the operations being sold don't fit into
its strategic plans to concentrate internationally on areas
such as private banking or client portfolio management and
specialized corporate finance, areas in which the company
says it has competitive strength.
   Royal Trust is a Toronto-based trust company. Credit
Lyonnais is a major French financial services institution.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                      U.S TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $18.4 billion of three- and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                      One Day In The Week
                                                                                                       

   Hawaii Housing Finance and Development Corp. -- $50
million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds, via a Dean
Witter Reynolds Inc. group.
   Maine State Housing Authority -- $210 million of single
family mortgage revenue bonds, including $30 million bonds
(non-Alternative Minimum Tax); $80 million bonds (AMT); and
$100 million of tender option bonds, via a Goldman, Sachs &amp;
Co. group.
   New York State Medical Care Facilities Finance Agency --
$115 million of FHA-insured hospital mortgage revenue bonds
for Presbyterian Hospital, 1990 Series A, via a Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets group.
   New York City Industrial Development Authority -- $85
million of special facilities revenue bonds for American
Airlines, (AMT), via Bear Stearns &amp; Co. Inc. group.
   Southern California Home Finance Authority -- $80 million
of single family mortgage revenue bonds, via a Bear Stearns &amp;
Co. Inc. group.
   Virginia Housing Development Authority -- $133 million of
commonwealth mortgage revenue bonds, 1990 Series A (AMT),
Subseries A-STEM, and 1990 Series B, Subseries B-STEM-II, via
a First Boston Corp. group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Times Publishing Co.:
   Poynter Institute Reassures
   State on Bass-Pact Terms
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Poynter Institute, the St. Petersburg, Fla., nonprofit
foundation that owns a majority stake of Times Publishing
Co., reassured Florida Attorney General Robert A. Butterworth
that its finances can withstand Times Publishing's secret
stock agreement with an investor group including Texas
billionaire Robert M. Bass.
   Mr. Butterworth, in a letter to the institute last week,
threatened to take the foundation to court to learn more
about the Times-Bass agreement, which was ostensibly struck
to ensure the publishing company's independence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Butterworth, whom the Poynter Institute had previously
asked for help in fending off Mr. Bass, wrote that he was
concerned "that the fiscal integrity of a charitable
educational institute is now in jeopardy."
   In responding to Mr. Butterworth's query, Robert J.
Haiman, the institute's president and managing director, said
that as part of the stock agreement, Poynter is exchanging
300 shares of Times Publishing preferred stock for a $30
million subordinated debenture. The 13% debenture, due 2002,
will yield more income than Poynter received from the
preferred shares, he wrote.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Rockwell Completes
   Group's Realignment
   And Names Officials
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   ROK WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -- Rockwell International Corp. said it
completed the realignment of its defense-electronics group by
combining several businesses and naming new executives to
head two reorganized divisions.
   The realignment, which began in March, is designed to
allow Rockwell to bid more effectively on Pentagon contracts
and overseas work, the company has said. The latest moves
affect about half of the defense-electronic's group's 16,000
employees. Some of them may move, but there aren't any job
reductions planned at this time, a Rockwell spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   John D. Cosgrove, 55 years old, was named president of the
newly created Collins Avionics and Communications division
with about 5,000 employees in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. He was
formerly president of a business that is part of the new
division. Robert P. Marovich, 47, formerly vice president and
general manager of another business in the division, was
named its executive vice president.
   Ronald A. Kodimer, 55, was named vice president and
general manager of the newly created Command and Control
Systems division in Richardson, Texas, a suburb near Dallas.
The division employs about 2,400 people, including 600 in San
Bernardino, Calif. Mr. Kodimer was executive vice president
of another division as well as vice president and director of
a business that is part of the new division. Edward J.
Stephens, 62, was named executive vice president of the
division. He had been a director of another division.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Nestor Inc.:
   Sligos of France Acquires
   5% Stake, Signs Agreement
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NEST
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nestor Inc. said in Providence, R.I., that Sligos S.A., a
French financial services concern, bought "just under" a 5%
stake in Nestor and signed a letter of intent to finance the
development and licensing of certain Nestor financial
products and services in Europe.
   Nestor makes software based on neural networks, computer
systems that roughly mimic operation of the brain's neurons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sligos purchased 352,064 shares of Nestor's Series A
preferred, convertible into an equal number of shares of the
company's common, for $704,128, Nestor said.
   If Sligos doesn't reach a "satisfactory" agreement to fund
development and licensing of the Nestor products in Europe,
it may require Nestor to buy back the preferred stock, at
cost, Nestor said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   For U.S. Banks, New Regulations
   Breed Doubt, Cut Profits in Korea
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CCI
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- Last year, foreign-bank managers in
Korea worried about militant workers holding them hostage for
higher wages. This year they worry about militant regulators
throwing them out of the country.
   Korean banking authorities have spent the summer
tightening restrictions on the way foreign banks can operate
in South Korea. The result for foreign banks is plenty of
confusion, lower profits and doubts about their future in the
growing Korean market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Much attention has been focused on threats by the Bank of
Korea, the central bank, to discipline expatriate bank
managers who they conclude are engaging in off-limits
business and playing fast and loose with the rules. A study
submitted to Korea's National Assembly found that the Office
of Bank Supervision and Examination had disciplined foreign
banks 34 times in the past 18 months.
   "We have repeatedly found many {instances of} irregular
business," said Shin Bok Young, assistant superintendent of
banks for the Bank of Korea. "We made simple warnings, but
these kinds of violations haven't been stopped."
   So officials want to extend Korea's "personal rebuke"
system to foreign banks. It would let regulators force a
foreign manager from his post -- and, for an unemployed
expatriate manager, that means out of Korea. The personal
rebuke system has been used to remove Korean bank managers,
most notably the head of Hanil Bank, one of Korea's largest.
   It isn't clear if the Bank of Korea will go that far with
the foreign banks, though authorities haven't ruled out such
a move. Regulators leaked to Korean reporters the name of a
U.S. bank that, according to the reports, may be the target.
Concerned U.S. officials have met with the Bank of Korea.
   When Korea was developing its export-led economy, it
desperately needed foreign banks to bring in capital to
jumpstart industrial growth. Foreign banks made a lot of
money in those days and enjoyed favored treatment. But now
that Korean industry is no longer totally dependent on
foreign banks, Korean banks, whose profits were down 28% in
the first half, see the outsiders as competitors.
   Many foreign bankers and diplomats are beginning to wonder
if the crackdown on sources of profit for foreign banks is an
attempt to force foreign banks out of Korea. Foreign bankers
complain they can't bring in capital to fund operations or
make loans. To raise capital locally they try to make money
on services, such as foreign-exchange transactions -- a
special target of the regulators. Citicorp's Citibank says it
is going the retail route to raise money from deposits, but
contends the government has been slow to allow it the
branches and automatic teller machines that Korean consumers
demand.
   Part of the problem is cultural. The Westerners assume
that if a service isn't specifically outlawed, it is legal.
But Koreans say that if it isn't specifically outlawed, then
it may or may not be legal.
   The Bank of Korea recently circulated a list of 16 areas
in which it said foreign banks were violating rules, among
them charging interest in advance and accepting blank checks
as collateral. But the focus was foreign exchange, one of the
few areas where foreign banks made money.
   Bank of Korea doesn't want foreign-exchange transactions
used for speculation. For instance, every forward purchase
contract must have an underlying foreign commercial contract.
But bankers complain that Korean conglomerates won't provide
the documents. World-wide, foreign-exchange volume is about
40 times larger than foreign commercial transactions, but
Korea wants a 1-to-1 ratio.
   The Bank of Korea also no longer wants banks to use
historical-rate rollovers on forward contracts of foreign
exchange purchases. This vehicle lets a client company hedge
its currency bets and extend a contract if it thinks the rate
will be more favorable later. Several Korean companies have
lost large sums of money on forward purchases recently. In
addition, revenue is down and costs are up substantially,
particularly wages and office rents.
   The upshot: Foreign banks' profit growth is slowing.
Earnings grew only 3.8% in 1989, compared with 24% in 1988
and about 30% in 1987. Bankers expect a sharp decline this
year.
   No banks have pulled out of Korea because of worsening
business conditions. And the Bank of Korea says it doesn't
want foreign banks to leave. "Foreign banks can be useful for
the introduction of new financial technologies," says Mr.
Shin of the Bank of Korea.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- MedChem Products Inc.:
   Talks With Pharmacia AB
   Could Lead to `Agreement'
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MCH PHABY
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   MedChem Products Inc., Woburn, Mass., said a federal
appeals court hearing scheduled for Friday in its patent
battle with Pharmacia AB was postponed because the companies
"are close to an agreement in principle" to settle the
litigation.
   Pharmacia, a Swedish concern, won an injunction in
December in federal district court in Boston. The injunction
limits MedChem's production of hyaluronic acid-based products
used in eye surgery. The court earlier ruled that MedChem's
Amvisc product line infringes on a product to which Pharmacia
owns the license. MedChem has appealed the injunction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MedChem, a maker of biomedical products, said, "There are
still certain details to be worked out" before its dispute
with Pharmacia can be settled. "Discussions are expected to
continue in order to resolve these differences," the company
added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- AB Skandia:
   Swedish Firm's Pretax Profit
   Plunged 87% in First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   S.SKH
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
INSURANCE (INS)
FULL LINE INSURANCE (INF)
</IN>
<LP>
   AB Skandia said first-half pretax profit plummeted 87% as
financial costs ballooned in the wake of a recent acquisition
spree and as a string of natural disasters in Sweden and
abroad caused heavy losses in underwriting operations.
   Scandinavia's biggest insurer didn't issue a full-year
profit forecast. But the Stockholm company's chief executive,
Bjoern Wolrath, was skeptical about chances of a rapid
turnaround. "It's going to take a while before big
investments we've been making in international expansion
begin to produce the profits we expect," he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Skandia said pretax profit in the first half plunged to
344 million Swedish kronor ($59.7 million) from 2.56 billion
kronor a year earlier. Operating profit tumbled 99% to 12
million kronor from 1.02 billion kronor the previous year.
   The year-to-year comparisons were distorted somewhat by
the fact that 1989 was generally considered one of the best
ever for Swedish insurers.
   Skandia said premium revenue in the first half surged 34%
to 12.36 billion kronor from 9.25 billion kronor in the 1989
half. But insurance operations posted a loss of 88 million
kronor, down from a profit of 221 million kronor a year
earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- First Ameri-Cable Corp.:
   Most Assets Sold to TCI;
   Holders to Receive Proceeds
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FATV
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   First Ameri-Cable Corp., a cable television company based
in Columbus, Ohio, said that it sold substantially all of its
assets to TCI Holdings Inc., a Denver-based cable TV concern,
for about $40 million, and that it will distribute net
proceeds to shareholders.
   The company said it intends to distribute on about Sept.
17 at least 15 cents a share to stock of record Sept. 11.
First Ameri-Cable has about 54 million shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An additional distribution of as much as three cents a
share will be made in March 1992, the company said. That
payment will be made from an escrow fund of $1.6 million that
the company established to provide for certain post-closing
obligations and any breaches of contractual representations
or warranties.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Holder Group Blames
   Society for Savings
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   SOCS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   HARTFORD, Conn. -- A group including Heine Securities
Corp. of Short Hills, N.J., and Michael F. Price said it is
dissatisfied with what it described as the failure of Society
for Savings Bancorp's management to enhance shareholder
value.
   In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Heine said
the management should actively seek to maximize shareholder
value, including the possible sale or spinoff of Society's
consumer finance business. William Kosturko, Society's
executive vice president, declined to comment on the group's
filing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The group holds 645,339 Society shares, or a 5.4% stake,
which was previously reported in an SEC filing as being held
for investment reasons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Lease's
   Purchase by American
   International Closed
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   AIG ILFC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American International Group Inc., a
multinational insurer, said it completed its acquisition of
International Lease Finance Corp. on Friday, shortly after
shareholders of the Beverly Hills, Calif.-based jet-leasing
company approved the transaction, valued at $1.3 billion.
   International Lease holders accepted American
International's cash-and-stock offer, even though American
International shares had traded for several days below
$66.40, a level in the acquisition agreement that would have
allowed either company to walk away from the deal. Officials
at both companies had said they were eager to complete the
transaction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   American International shares moved above the $66.40 mark
last week and closed Friday at $67.50, up 50 cents, in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Standard Products Co.:
   Plastic/Magnetic Products
   Unit of Pantasote Acquired
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   SPD PNT
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Standard Products Co., Cleveland, said it bought the
Plastic/Magnetic Products division of Pantasote Inc.,
Greenwich, Conn. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The unit makes extruded and molded plastic and magnetic
parts for home appliances and other uses. Sales last year
were $24 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Standard Products, which is mainly a producer of rubber
and plastic parts for cars and trucks, in 1989 bought Holm
Industries, a maker of plastic and magnetic door seals for
home appliances and residential doors. The newly acquired
unit will complement the Holm operations, Standard Products
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pan Am Corp.:
   Carrier Will Cut Flights,
   Lease Planes to Lufthansa
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   PN G.LHA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pan American World Airways said it agreed to phase out
some of its Berlin flights and provide planes for Lufthansa
German Airlines' planned Berlin operations.
   Lufthansa has applied for permission to serve Berlin
beginning in October. Under its "agreement in principle" with
Pan Am, a unit of Pan Am Corp., Lufthansa will pay Pan Am
$150 million to lease at least nine Pan Am Boeing Co. 727
aircraft, with pilots.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pan Am, which currently operates 74 daily flights between
Berlin and the German cities of Hamburg, Nuremburg,
Frankfurt, Stuttgart, Dusseldorf and Munich, will terminate
those services in late October. The agreement does not affect
Pan Am's non-stop service to Berlin from New York or the
operations of Pan Am Express, its regional airline
subsidiary, which operates 34 daily flights to 10 European
cities and Berlin.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS expects to receive $150 million
from Lufthansa German Airlines for certain services and
facilities, including the transfer of gate space. Tuesday's
edition incorrectly described what Pan American was selling.
   (WSJ Sept. 6, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- N.V. Philips:
   Firm Said to End SRAM
   Chip Project to Cut Losses
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PHG EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   N.V. Philips is expected to abandon one of its most
cherished semiconductor projects in a bid to reduce losses.
   A senior executive familiar with the company confirmed
Dutch news reports that Philips will stop making static
random access memory chips, or SRAMs, after spending more
than $200 million in the 1980s to develop the technology.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dutch electronics company also is expected to reduce
its participation in the Joint European Submicron Silicon
project, known as JESSI, under which major European companies
are jointly developing semiconductor technology with
subsidies from national governments and the European
Community.
   A Philips spokesman declined to comment.
   The moves by Philips, one of the major pillars of
technology research in Europe, would be a blow to European
efforts to catch up with Japan and the U.S. in semiconductor
technology and sales said Bill Coleman, an analyst at the
London stockbrokerage James Capel &amp; Co.
   At the same time, the cost-cutting measures would
demonstrate that Philips's new chairman, Jan Timmer, is
willing to sacrifice some of the company's highest
technological ambitions in an effort to improve financial
results.
   SRAMs, which retain their information even when the power
is turned off, are memory chips used in telecommunications
equipment, defense electronics and portable computers, among
other products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Meadowdale Foods Inc.:
   Kroger Co. Buys 25 Stores,
   Plus 4 Under Construction
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kroger Co., Cincinnati, said it bought 25 Detroit area
supermarkets, plus four others under construction, from
Meadowdale Foods Inc., Detroit.
   Kroger said Foodland Distributors, Livonia, Mich., which
currently supplies Kroger's Michigan supermarkets, purchased
Meadowdale's Abner Wolf Distributors wholesale operations,
and will supply the newly acquired Kroger stores. Those
stores, previously operated under the Great Scott] name, will
adopt the Kroger name.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sources close to the transaction said Meadowdale received
$74 million for the operations. Kroger didn't disclose how
much of that was for the stores it purchased.
   The purchase will double the number of Kroger stores in
the Detroit area. The supermarket and drugstore chain
previously operated 54 stores in Michigan, 29 of them in the
Detroit area.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Tokyu Department Store Co.:
   First Half Profit Up 14.7%;
   Firm Expects Competition
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   J.TDP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyu Department Store Co. reported that net income in the
first half, ended July 31, climbed 14.7% to 3.473 billion
yen, or 12.65 yen a share, from 3.029 billion yen, or 12.01
yen a share.
   Reflecting Japan's strong consumer spending in the latest
reporting term, overall sales registered 190.336 billion yen,
showing a 21.4% increase from 156.816 billion yen a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the Tokyo-based company also is predicting some trying
circumstances ahead, such as fierce competition to result
from easing of the large-scale retail store regulation, which
enables foreign department stores to make inroads to Japan.
   For the full year, Tokyu forecasts that sales will reach
387 billion yen from 346.523 billion yen the previous year.
Net income is estimated at around 5.7 billion, up from 5.189
billion yen in the prior fiscal year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WAR FEARS and new recession talk don't affect hiring
plans.
   Most employers say their already weak employment outlooks
aren't further weakened so far by the Mideast crisis, the
latest recession worries or the stock market decline. Scott
Paper is "staffing for attrition only," but no layoffs are
planned -- for now. Higher oil prices just confirm Dow
Chemical's earlier decision to hire fewer professionals amid
slumping chemical business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The war threat reaffirms the wisdom of recent job cuts at
Armco Inc., a New Jersey steel-products firm, and hiring
caution by Reynolds &amp; Reynolds, an Ohio business forms and
computer systems supplier, those firms say. Storage
Technology hires more engineers, but fewer unskilled workers.
National Gypsum may use attrition to pare its force, with
housing starts declining.
   But Merry-Go-Round Enterprises, a fast-growing apparel
retailer, may add more than 2,000 people by early 1992.
                                                                                                       

   VACATIONS MAY BE more stressful than restful.
   Many signs of strain in a study of 29 Tel Aviv University
computer center workers during Passover vacation were as
great as or greater than during hectic computer shutdowns or
startups or routine work. The workers perceived vacation time
as relaxing, but anxiety, depression or elevated blood
pressure often didn't subside on vacation, said Dov Eden, the
management professor who did the study.
   "For many workers, being at home is no picnic," Mr. Eden
said. "Work addicts" see vacations as a form of "imposed
disengagement from work," and, he added, "It is likely that
job stress carries over to vacation time much more than
vacation joy spills over" to post-vacation work. A brief
pre-vacation slowdown might make the leave more restful, Mr.
Eden suggested.
                                                                                                       

   RELAXING OR NOT, vacations are often followed by the
blues.
   Post-leave letdowns are more prevalent as the summer
vacation season winds down, says Paul Kazmierski, Rochester
Institute of Technology psychology professor. Manager purges
and workers' stressful lives add to post-vacation blues, he
says. Frequent short leaves are less therapeutic, agrees Mary
Kuconis, of Stride Rite. Vicki Coke, a Hecla Mining
spokeswoman, took three weeks to rebound from a one-week
vacation.
   Most employees return to find a heavy work load, a Unisys
official says. One remedy: "Hang out in the copier room a
little longer," says SunBank lender Ronald Harris. Rosa
Egusquiza, a customer rep at the bank, advises: "Think about
your next vacation."
   But vacations "revitalize" BankAmerica PR woman Bernice
Riordan; so, too, for workers at Alcon Laboratories in Texas
and Omni Hotels in New Hampshire, officials say.
                                                                                                       

   SALARY INCREASES in 1991 may trail inflation for the first
time since 1980, says consultant William M. Mercer. Its
survey of over 3,000 employers shows an average 5.4% pay
rise, easing from 5.5% in 1990. A similar poll by Wyatt Co.,
another consultant, forecasts an average 5.6% salary rise in
1991, down from 5.7% this year.
                                                                                                       

   SOME WORKER BENEFITS beyond legal requirements will be
provided to reservists called to military duty by 62% of 114
employers surveyed by the International Foundation of
Employee Benefit Plans. Life insurance will continue for 49%;
disability coverage, 28%; medical-dental coverage, 53%; and
all these, 26%. Mutual Benefit Life will waive life insurance
premiums for up to two years.
                                                                                                       

   MORE ORGANIZING GAINS are registered by labor unions. They
won 49.8% of NLRB-supervised representation elections last
year, up from 48.6% in 1988 and a recent low of 45.9% in
1985, the Bureau of National Affairs, a reporting service,
says.
                                                                                                       

   DEEP DISPARITIES: It costs a young new worker $890 a month
to rent a one-bedroom apartment in Honolulu, but only $280 in
Oklahoma City, says living-cost consultant Runzheimer
International. Or $733 in the New York area, $700 in San Jose
and $670 in Washington, D.C., vs. $285 in Austin, Texas, and
$290 in Colorado Springs.
                                                                                                       

   PAID PARENTAL LEAVE gains a foothold, and may spread.
   Family leaves have mostly been unpaid, but over a third of
68 firms with leave policies offer some form of continued
salary, a Buck Consultants survey shows. Often, the payment
is for maternity medical leave. The trend is growing, says
Buck's Barbara Adolph, though managerial and professional
employees will benefit most. Some employers see a competitive
edge, but many shun the idea as costly and as inducing
workers to stay at home longer.
   A few states ponder paid-leave laws. A New York state
panel proposed requiring partial pay to workers taking leave
to care for new babies or ill family members, financed by
increased worker and employee disability insurance. A couple
could get half of weekly wages, up to $170 a week -- one
parent for a maximum of 16 weeks, or a combined total of 20
weeks.
   A Massachusetts legislative committee hopes to approve a
similar partial-pay family-leave bill by this fall.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: State and local government workers won an
average 5.1% annual wage raise in contracts signed the first
half of this year, up from 4.6% in their previous pacts. . .
. The National Academy Foundation, a business-backed group,
creates a government-service curriculum for Washington, D.C.,
high-school students.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, August 31, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                                Stock  N.A.   Stock    %
   Fund Name                    Exch.  Value  Price   Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express                NYSE   17.36  15 5/8  - 9.99
   Baker Fentress               NYSE   21.18  17 3/4  -16.19
   Blue Chip Value              NYSE    6.77   6      -11.37
   Clemente Global Gro          NYSE  b11.01   8 3/4  -20.53
   Gemini II Capital            NYSE   12.94  11      -14.99
   Gemini II Income             NYSE    9.72  12 3/8  +27.31
   General Amer Invest          NYSE   21.87  18      -17.70
   Growth Stock Outlook         NYSE   10.28  10      - 2.72
   Liberty All-Star Eqty        NYSE    8.91   7 3/8  -17.23
   Niagara Share Corp.          NYSE   16.56  13 1/2  -18.48
   Nicholas-Applegate           NYSE   10.43  10 1/8  - 2.92
   Quest For Value Cap          NYSE   16.66  11 5/8  -30.22
   Quest For Value Inco         NYSE   11.67  12 5/8  + 8.18
   Royce Value Trust            NYSE    9.34   8 1/4  -11.67
   Salomon Fd                   NYSE   13.69  11 1/4  -17.82
   Source Capital               NYSE   36.61  37 3/8  + 2.09
   Tri-Continental Corp.        NYSE   26.23  22 7/8  -12.79
   Worldwide Value              NYSE   17.28  14 3/8  -16.81
   Zweig Fund                   NYSE   10.53  10 5/8  + 0.90
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs          AMEX    6.64   5 1/8  -22.82
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr         NYSE   b7.59   7 3/8  - 2.83
   Franklin Universal Tr        NYSE   b7.02   6 1/2  - 7.41
   Municipal High Inco          NYSE    9.31   9 1/4  - 0.64
   Zenix Income Fund            NYSE    6.03   5 1/4  -12.94
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds

   America's All Seasn          OTC     5.85   4 5/8  -20.94
   European Warrant Fd          NYSE   10.41   8 7/8  -14.75
   Franklin M-M Inco            NYSE   b8.07   7 3/4  - 3.97
   Zweig Total Return Fd        NYSE    9.01   8 7/8  - 1.50
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance Global Env Fd       NYSE   13.14   9 7/8  -24.85
   Alliance New Europe Fd       NYSE   10.81   9 7/8  - 8.65
   American Capital Conv        NYSE   20.71  17 3/8  -16.10
   ASA Ltd                      NYSE bc62.93  49 5/8  -21.14
   Asia Pacific                 NYSE   14.32  11 7/8  -17.07
   Austria Fund                 NYSE   14.54  11 1/4  -22.63
   Bancroft Convertible         AMEX  a19.37  16 1/2  -14.82
   Bergstrom Capital            AMEX   60.22  60      - 0.37
   BGR Precious Metals          TOR  be10.84   9 1/4  -14.67
   Brazil                       NYSE   10.70   9 1/8  -14.72
   CNV Holdings Capital         NYSE    8.71   4 5/8  -46.90
   CNV Holdings Income          NYSE    9.54  10 5/8  +11.37
   Castle Convertible           AMEX   20.24  17 1/8  -15.39
   Central Fund Canada          AMEX   b5.01   4 7/8  - 2.69
   Central Securities           AMEX   10.28   8 3/8  -18.53
   Chile Fund                   NYSE   16.09  14 3/8  -10.66
   Couns Tandem Secs            NYSE   11.78   9 5/8  -18.29
   Cypress Fund                 AMEX    8.77   8 3/8  - 4.50
   Duff &amp; Phelps Sel Utils      NYSE    7.69   7 7/8  + 2.41
   Ellsw Conv Gr &amp; Inc          AMEX    7.80   6 5/8  -15.06
   Emerging Ger Fd              NYSE   10.34   8 1/4  -20.21
   Engex                        AMEX    9.99   7 9/16 -24.30
   Europe Fund                  NYSE   13.96  11 5/8  -16.73
   1st Australia                AMEX   10.23   8 3/8  -18.13
   First Financial Fund         NYSE    5.63   5 1/8  - 8.97
   First Iberian                AMEX   10.45   9 1/8  -12.68
   First Philippine Fund        NYSE   10.25   7 1/2  -26.83
   France Growth Fund           NYSE   10.90   9 1/4  -15.14
   Future Germany Fund          NYSE   15.63  13 1/2  -13.63
   Gabelli Equity Trust         NYSE   10.62  10 1/4  - 3.48
   Germany Fund                 NYSE   12.22  13 1/8  + 7.41
   Global Utilities Fund        NYSE   10.61   8 3/4  -17.53
   Growth Fund Spain            NYSE   11.49   9      -21.67
   GT Greater Europe Fd         NYSE   13.00  11 3/4  - 9.62
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv           NYSE   11.88   9 7/8  -16.88
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap         AMEX  b10.31   9 3/8  - 9.07
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref        AMEX  b49.49  48 1/2  - 2.00
   India Growth Fund            NYSE  f17.62  15 1/2  -12.03
   Indonesia Fund               NYSE   13.72  12 3/4  - 7.07
   Inefficient Market Fund      AMEX    9.76   8 3/4  -10.35
   Irish Investment Fd          NYSE    9.71   7 1/2  -22.76
   Italy Fund                   NYSE  b14.30  10 3/4  -24.83
   Jakarta Growth Fd            NYSE   10.53   9 1/8  -13.34
   Japan OTC Equity Fund        NYSE   11.83   9 3/4  -17.58
   Korea Fund                   NYSE   11.11  16 5/8  +49.64
   Latin America Inv Fd         NYSE   12.98  10 1/2  -19.11
   Malaysia Fund                NYSE   13.64  14 1/4  + 4.47
   Mexico Fund                  NYSE  b14.53  13 5/8  - 6.23
   Morgan Grenf Sm Cap          NYSE    9.51   9      - 5.36

   Pacific Eur Growth Fd        NYSE   10.32   9 1/2  - 7.95
   Patriot Prem Div Fd          NYSE    8.01   9 1/4  +15.48
   Patriot Prem Div Fd II       NYSE    9.16  10      + 9.17
   Patriot Select Div Trust     NYSE   13.81  14 7/8  + 7.71
   Petrol &amp; Resources           NYSE   31.54  29 7/8  - 5.28
   Pilgrim Regional             NYSE    7.90   7 3/8  - 6.65
   Putnam Dividend Inco         NYSE    9.50   9 3/8  - 1.32
   Portugal Fund                NYSE   12.97  10 7/8  -16.15
   Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd        AMEX    5.97   5      -16.25
   ROC Taiwan Fund              NYSE    8.20   8 1/8  - 0.91
   Scudder New Asia             NYSE   17.92  15      -16.29
   Scudder New Europe           NYSE   11.63   9 7/8  -15.09
   SE Savings Inst Fd           OTC    b6.87   6      -12.66
   Singapore Fd                 NYSE  b11.01   9      -18.26
   Spain Fund                   NYSE   14.00  13 1/8  - 6.25
   Swiss Helvetia Fd            NYSE   13.88  12 5/8  - 9.04
   Taiwan Fund                  NYSE  b16.07  22 1/2  +40.01
   TCW Convertible Secs         NYSE   b7.53   7 3/4  + 2.92
   Templeton Em Mkts            AMEX  b15.26  14 3/8  - 5.80
   Templeton Global Util        AMEX   10.60  10 1/2  - 0.94
   Templeton Value Fund         NYSE   b8.94   8 3/8  - 6.32
   Thai Capital Fund            NYSE   10.38   8 1/2  -18.11
   Thai Fund                    NYSE   19.59  18 3/8  - 6.20
   Turkish Inv Fund             NYSE   15.08  11 1/4  -25.40
   United Kingdom Fund          NYSE   11.30   9 3/4  -13.72
   Z-Seven                      OTC    12.40  13 1/4  + 6.85
                                                                                                       

   a-Ex-dividend. b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at
Commercial Rand exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of
Wednesday's close.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Bank Building &amp; Equipment Corp.:
   Most Assets Will Be Sold
   To First Financial Building
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   BB WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bank Building &amp; Equipment Corp. of America, St. Louis,
which filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code in May, said it would sell most of its assets
to a new closely held company.
   Former Bank Building president and chief executive John T.
Golitz has resigned to head the new company, First Financial
Building Corp. in Arlington Heights, Ill.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bank Building will sell the consulting, architectural
design and construction contracts of its Financial Facilities
and Financial Research Associates divisions and its Modular
Buildings, Inc. subsidiary. The purchase price wasn't
disclosed.
   Various other Bank Building executives also will be
joining the new company.
   "The management, consulting, design, construction and
marketing teams will remain intact at the new company," Mr.
Golitz said, adding that the company would start with a staff
of 88 people at four regional offices in St. Louis; Hartford,
Conn.; Atlanta; and Clearwater, Fla. The company also expects
to open a western divisional office in California.
   Mr. Golitz was unavailable for further comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   As the World Turns,
   Seat Prices Are Set
   For a Realignment
   ---
   Place on Oil-Trading Nymex
   Gains Value as Big Board,
   Amex Memberships Slide
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Seat prices on the nation's two main stock
exchanges continue to erode, but soaring oil prices have
bumped up the price of a seat on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, where oil futures are traded.
   A seat on the American Stock Exchange sold Thursday for
$100,000, a 10-year low, one week after seat prices on the
New York Stock Exchange reached their lowest level since the
end of 1984.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest sale on the Amex was down $7,500 from the
previous sale Aug. 20. Amex seats, currently quoted at
$95,000 bid and $120,000 asked, reached a peak of $420,000 on
Oct. 9 and Oct. 16, 1987. The latter sale came on the last
trading day before the stock market crashed 22.6% on Monday,
Oct. 19.
   Big Board seat prices lately have bounced around at low
levels. One sold Aug. 23 for $301,000, a 5 1/2-year low. Last
Tuesday, one sold for $309,000; then on Friday, another sold
for $305,000. New York Stock Exchange seats now are quoted at
$301,000 bid and $350,000 asked; they peaked at $1,150,000 on
Sept. 21, 1987.
   Normally on both stock exchanges, "seat prices reflect
expectations of the level of trading volume" over the next 18
to 24 months, says Perrin Long of Lipper Analytical
Securities Inc. Lower trading volume means less revenue for
brokerage firms, reducing the value of a membership on the
exchange.
   As for the current outlook, the analyst says, "Seat prices
will continue to decline as long as we're stuck on the Saudi
peninsula," referring to U.S. military forces sent to Saudi
Arabia in response to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait a month ago.
   A fundamental reason stock-exchange seat prices are down
is that with the advent of electronic order execution, the
exchanges have "less need for as many people on the floor,"
says Dudley Eppel, managing director of equity trading at
Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp.
   On the New York Merc, however, seat prices have risen
since the crisis in the Middle East broke out Aug. 2. The
current bid for a seat is $250,000 and the offer price
$350,000; the past three sales were July 25 at $260,000, Aug.
14 at $270,000 and Aug. 21 at $290,000. If the trend
continues, Nymex seat prices could pass those of the Big
Board for the first time.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Swire Pacific Ltd.:
   Hong Kong Firm's Profit
   For First Half Fell 17%
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   H.SWP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Swire Pacific Ltd., a Hong Kong-based conglomerate, posted
a 17% decline in first-half profit to 1.09 billion Hong Kong
dollars (US$141.3 million) from HK$1.32 billion a year
earlier, citing an expected drop in property section earnings
in that operation's transition to a property investment
concern from a developer.
   Declines of 17% also were posted in pershare earnings for
Series A stock to 69.1 cents from 82.9 cents, and for Series
B to 13.8 cents from 16.6 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue increased 5% to HK$14.03 billion from HK$13.4
billion.
   Directors proposed an interim dividend of 23 cents a
Series A share and 4.6 cents a Series B share, both
unchanged.
   Swire's shipping and industries division did well in the
first half, but its aviation units, Cathay Pacific Airways
and Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering, were hurt by rising
operational costs. Cathay had a lower-than-expected 4%
growth, and the engineering unit's profit fell 8%. A downturn
in retail demand, especially in Taiwan, pared results of
trading operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hedged-Investment,
   Founder Both Make
   Bankruptcy Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ENGLEWOOD, Colo. -- Hedged-Investments Associates Inc. and
its founder, James D. Donahue, filed for protection from
creditors under the federal Bankruptcy Code late Thursday.
   Hedged-Investments is managing general partner of Hedged
Securities Associates Inc., a limited partnership. On Aug.
23, Mr. Donahue told 500 Hedged Securities investors, via
videotape, that he had lost more than $100 million of their
money through stock-option trading, primarily involving
shares of UAL Corp. Attorneys for the firm say Hedged
Securities has only about $2 million in assets remaining.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hedged-Investments filed under Chapter 11 of the
Bankruptcy Code, which gives businesses protection from
creditors while they formulate a reorganization plan. Mr.
Donahue filed under Chapter 13, which grants similar
protection to individuals. Aeroturbine Energy Corp., another
Hedged Investments subsidiary, also filed for Chapter 11
protection.
   The Hedged-Investment filing listed more than 1,000
creditors but provided few details about the company's assets
and liabilities. Lawyers for the firm said such information
would be provided in future filings.
   In a federal lawsuit filed last week, Weyerhaeuser Co.
said its pension fund lost an estimated $35 million by
investing in Hedged Securities. In separate suits filed in
state district court here, Paradigm Partners Inc., Chicago
said a pension fund it controls lost more than $15 million
through similar investments. Union Texas Petroleum Holdings
Inc., Houston, said its pension fund lost about $8 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   High-Yielding
   Foreign Bonds
   Show Strength
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Money managers often caution investors against
reaching too far for high yields, but lately that has been
the only way to get ahead in the international bond market.
   So far this year, international bonds that pay high yields
are producing double-digit returns for investors even though
bond prices have fallen sharply.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When Iraq's early August invasion of Kuwait resulted in
soaring oil prices, global bond prices tumbled, and
international investors braced for what they assumed would be
a period of negative total returns. While returns for the
month of August were fairly lousy, the year-to-date figures
are pretty good and analysts say the returns should improve
dramatically in the weeks and months ahead as the dollar
resumes its downward move in foreign-exchange markets.
   The Mideast turmoil "produced one of the biggest sell-offs
in the global financial markets on record," said Nicholas
Sargen, director of international research at Salomon
Brothers Inc., in the firm's weekly bond market comments.
"Yields in all the principal international markets soared
during August, with those in Japan, West Germany and the U.S.
testing or setting 1990 highs."
   When the dust settled, "things weren't all that bad," said
Victor Filatov, an analyst at J.P. Morgan &amp; Co.
   Measured by the J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. global bond index, which
tracks the performance of 454 government bonds issued by 11
countries, non-U.S. bonds posted a negative total return of
0.37% for August and a positive 4.90% return so far this year
-- in dollars. The Salomon Brothers World Government bond
index posted a total dollar return of 0.19% for the month and
4.87% for the year.
   The best-performing bonds for U.S. investors were those
issued by countries that offer high yields, such as Spain,
Britain and Australia. The worst performers, with the only
negative return for the year to date, were bonds issued by
Japan, down 6.28%.
   Thomas Prapas, a portfolio manager at Clemente Capital
Corp., said that many investors moved into global bonds in
early spring, attracted by the relatively high yields. Bond
yields are about 12% in Britain, 13% in Australia and 15% in
New Zealand and Spain, compared with between 8% and 9% in the
U.S.
   Mr. Prapas manages a $200 million global bond mutual fund
for Freedom Capital Management Corp.
   There are three components of the total return on
fixed-income securities denominated in foreign currencies:
income from interest payments, local bond-price changes and
currency changes.
   Consider the total return for a U.S. investor who may have
purchased an Australian government bond. Although the price
of the bond was flat, the total return for the bond was 3.47%
in the month of August and 11.72% so far this year.
   In early January, when one U.S. dollar bought 1.27
Australian dollars, a 10,000 Australian dollar bond was worth
about $7,874. By August, when one dollar was trading at 1.23
Australian dollars, the value of that same bond rose to about
$8,130, based purely on changes in the currency. The high 13%
yield boosted the total return even further.
   Although the dollar was sharply lower against most major
currencies during most of last month, it surged last Thursday
and Friday. However, analysts expect the dollar to start to
tumble again. If that happens, U.S. investors in
international bond funds should benefit.
   "The returns this year have been very good," said Adam
Greshin, a vice president at Scudder, Stevens &amp; Clark and
assistant portfolio manager of the Scudder International Bond
Fund. "After two dry years, we are finally seeing some
significant returns."
   That may explain the renewed popularity of international
bond funds for U.S. investors. Scudder said assets in its
international bond fund rose from about $31.5 million at the
start of the year to about $105 million last month. Many
other global bond funds also grew, but at a smaller pace.
   The J.P. Morgan index includes bonds of varying
maturities, with an average maturity of 6.6 years for
non-U.S. bonds and 7.5 years when U.S. bonds are included.
Portfolios with a longer average maturity than the Morgan
index would have experienced smaller returns. Portfolios with
shorter maturities would have posted higher total returns
than the Morgan index. That's because long-term foreign
government bonds, like those in the U.S., have taken far
greater hits than short-term securities.
   Mr. Filatov at J.P. Morgan estimates that total returns of
short-term securities exceeded the returns on long-term
securities by between two and 4.5 percentage points in the
month of August alone.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity

   The bond market ended the week modestly lower in quiet
trading, with prices fluctuating with the price of oil.
   The benchmark 30-year bond ended Friday's pre-holiday
shortened trading session at a price of 97 16/32, down 1/8
point on the day for a loss of about $1.25 for a bond with a
$1,000 face amount. The issue's yield ended unchanged from
Thursday at 8.98%. For the entire week, the long-term bond
rose nearly 1 3/4 points.
   Major dealers closed their trading desks at 2 p.m. EDT on
Friday and financial markets were closed yesterday in
observance of Labor Day.
   Short-term securities were also higher Friday, due mostly
to perceptions that the Federal Reserve is poised to ease
monetary policy.
   In the corporate market, junk bonds edged lower. Traders
said that prices, on average, were quoted about 1/4 point
lower but only a handful of issues traded.
   For the entire month of August, junk bond prices fell
sharply and resulted in a negative total return of 4.62%,
according to First Boston Corp.'s high-yield index. The index
tracks 349 issues representing nearly $100 billion of
securities. First Boston said the index posted a total return
of 1.4% so far this year.
   Sam DeRosa-Farag, a First Boston high-yield analyst, said
it was the top-tier, so-called "go-go" junk bonds that
experienced the largest price declines. "Even bonds issued by
companies considered recession resistant were hit hard," he
said.
   That's partly because go-go bonds are easier to sell than
some other junk bonds, so investors who want to get out of
the market in a hurry tend to sell these securities first.
But also, higher-quality junk bonds were slow to react to
talk of recession during the month of July.
   These bonds "did not reflect enough bad news before, but
now they reflect the bad news a little bit too much," said
Mr. DeRosa-Farag.
   ---
                      Global Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Bond market total returns measured in U.S. dollars.
(Ranked by August total return)
                                                                                                       

                                              YEAR-TO-
   MARKET                     AUGUST            DATE
                                                                                                       

   Australia                   3.47%            11.72%
   United Kingdom              1.70             18.69
   Spain                       0.65             22.49
   Canada                      0.18              2.01
   The Netherlands            -0.24              8.06
   Belgium                    -0.51             15.43
   Germany                    -0.52              5.50
   Japan                      -0.76             -6.28
   United States              -1.12              2.34
   Italy                      -1.18             18.38
   France                     -1.83             12.37

                                                                                                       

   Source: J.P. Morgan &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   CHRYSLER PLANS TO EXTEND its cost-cutting efforts and
raise the goal to $2.5 billion, $1 billion more than
previously disclosed, Iacocca said in an interview. The auto
maker needs the savings to cope with a surge in
buyer-incentive expenses. The chairman also said the company
is committed to maintaining its current common dividend and
is looking for a European partner to cooperate on vehicle
development and distribution.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   PacifiCorp agreed to drop its pursuit of Pinnacle West
Capital in exchange for a power swap with Pinnacle's Arizona
utility unit in a pact potentially worth $260 million.
   ---
   Boeing received $6 billion of firm orders and options from
Asiana, a new South Korean airline. Separately, McDonnell
Douglas got $2.5 billion in orders and options from
airliner-leasing firm GPA Group.
   ---
   World oil supplies will remain adequate until October, but
tighter reserves are anticipated as winter approaches, a
21-nation group said.
                                                                                                       

   Alaskan oil output will increase more than first predicted
to help offset the losses of Mideast crude, the Energy
Department said.
   ---
   Stocks rose Friday in the slowest trading session of the
year. The Dow Jones industrials gained 21.04 points to close
at 2614.36. The bond market closed mostly lower in light
activity.
   ---
   Japanese regulators punished four firms, including a
Citicorp unit, for alleged roles in a stock-rigging scheme.
The move signals a tougher stance by Tokyo against trading
abuses. Each firm will have to close an office briefly and
pay a fine.
                                                                                                       

   Tokyo stock prices declined sharply Monday on rumors of a
new stock-manipulation investigation.
   ---
   First Fidelity contracted with GM's EDS unit to
consolidate the bank's software and data operations. The
10-year pact is valued at about $450 million and may set a
pattern for other major banking companies.
   ---
   Advanced Micro Devices is preparing to clone Intel's 80386
microprocessor. The move would break Intel's monopoly on the
chip of choice for new personal computers.
   ---
   Brazil and the IMF agreed to a new pact, although the
exact amount of money the agency will lend the country hasn't
been determined.
   ---
   Shell Canada won the right to develop the Caroline gas
field. The company's $719.2 million plan beat out a rival
proposal by Husky Oil.
   ---
   Business failures are up 11.7% this year, adding to
worries that the U.S. is moving toward a recession.
   ---
   Bristol-Myers agreed to buy a one-third stake in French
nonprescription drug maker UPSA Group.
   ---
   Average farm prices fell 1.3% in August from July, as a
slump in grain prices more than offset record levels for beef
cattle and milk.
   ---
   The Tisch family disclosed it acquired stakes in BayBanks,
Continental Bank and Equimark. Shares of the banking firms
rose on the news.
   ---
   Canada's gross domestic product fell 0.4% in the second
quarter, reversing 7 1/2 years of growth and raising fears
that a recession is at hand.
   ---
   The purchasing managers' index due out today is expected
to indicate again a weak economy. Friday's August
unemployment report is anticipated to be unchanged from July.
   ---
   Friday's Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 96,480,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2614.36, up 21.04; transportation 901.44, up 0.18; utilities
195.93, up 2.21.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Brothers Treasury index 3343.02, up
6.04.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.46, off 0.77;
spot index 130.12, off 0.67.
   Dollar: 143.79 yen, off 0.56; 1.5755 marks, up 0.0115.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Ethanol, in Wake of Oil-Price Rise, May Help
   Fuel the Fortunes of Archer-Daniels-Midland
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   ADM TX CPC
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Archer-Daniels-Midland shares have wavered
along with the rest of the stock market since the Persian
Gulf crisis raised the specter of an oil-shock recession.
   But if oil prices stay up, Archer-Daniels might have a
silver lining: ethanol.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Decatur, Ill., processor of agricultural commodities
controls about 60% of U.S. ethanol capacity, according to
securities analysts. Made primarily from corn, ethanol is the
fuel additive that was trumpeted after the 1970s oil shocks
as a way to extend gasoline supplies.
   The public's interest waned in the 1980s as petroleum
prices eased. But the ethanol industry was nursed by a
partial exemption from the federal tax on gas.
   Now Wall Street expects the ethanol industry's fortunes to
rise again.
   Even before the Persian Gulf crisis rejuvenated interest
in alternative fuels, Congress was mulling whether to require
several big cities to use cleaner-burning fuels, such as
ethanol blends, as a way to reduce harmful auto emissions.
   Passage of clean-air legislation might double the demand
for ethanol, figures James G. Joyce, an analyst at Prescott
Ball &amp; Turben in New York.
   The recent jump in oil prices increases the chance that
Washington will extend past 1993 the controversial tax
exemption on ethanol-blended gasoline. The exemption amounts
to an effective subsidy of 60 cents on a gallon of ethanol.
   Without the tax exemption, ethanol isn't cost competitive
with gasoline until crude oil prices are at least $40 a
barrel, according to an Agriculture Department study.
   "This could be the watershed event that could lead to
Americans realizing the importance of ethanol," said Clinton
O. Mayer III, an analyst at Bear Stearns in New York.
   In the short term, ethanol producers are already reaping
some gains. Ethanol emulates changes in the price of
gasoline. Since Iraq invaded Kuwait a month ago, the
wholesale price of ethanol has climbed by roughly 15%, or 20
cents a gallon, in some markets.
   Another windfall for ethanol producers is that the price
of corn, which is one of the biggest expenses of making
ethanol, slipped 6% in August amid forecasts for a good-sized
harvest this autumn.
   "The people in the ethanol industry are printing money,"
said Richard T. Gadomski, chief executive of Memphis,
Tenn.-based PSI Group of Cos., which builds ethanol plants.
   Archer-Daniels probably stands to benefit the most from a
boost in the ethanol industry because it is widely seen as
the lowest cost producer. It has state-of-the-art facilities
and, unlike some competitors, it can switch three mills
between ethanol and high fructose corn syrup, a sugar
substitute used by the soft drink industry. That flexibility
allows it to run its mills at full capacity.
   After Archer-Daniels, the ethanol industry gets small
fast. According to analysts, the second-largest producer is
Pekin Energy, a venture between Texaco and CPC International.
Pekin markets about 80 million gallons annually;
Archer-Daniels's annual ethanol capacity is 700 million
gallons.
   It is difficult for analysts to calculate ethanol's effect
on Archer-Daniels' bottom line. Ethanol generates less than
10% of its revenue and the company is tight-lipped about its
numbers.
   According to George S. Dahlman, an analyst at Piper
Jaffray &amp; Hopwood, Minneapolis, some investors use the rough
rule of thumb that, on an annual basis, the after-tax
per-share profit of Archer-Daniels increases by 1.5 cents for
every penny-a-gallon increase in the price of ethanol.
   An Archer-Daniels official scoffs at the formula, noting
that investors can't know the price of the corn the company
buys nor of the byproducts it sells.
   But analysts are intrigued by the possibilities.
Archer-Daniels's annual ethanol capacity works out to about
2.36 gallons for each Archer-Daniels share outstanding.
   To be sure, there is reason to be wary about any ethanol
play. Any jump in corn prices could eliminate profits, and
the Midwest crop is unusually vulnerable to a yield-damaging
frost this month because the wet summer slowed its maturity.
   Several analysts said oil prices would have to remain high
for several months before they consider revising their
earnings estimates for the company.
   Until then, analysts are recommending purchase of
Archer-Daniels for other reasons, such as the prospects for
increased exports to Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, and
strong domestic demand for the company's vegetable oil.
   Mr. Mayer of Bear Stearns said he is continuing to predict
that the company will earn $1.85 a share for the fiscal year
through June 1991, up 13.5% from fiscal 1990.
   ---
   Archer-Daniels-Midland
   (NYSE; Symbol: ADM)

   Business: Agricultural commodity processor
                                                                                                       

   Year ended June 30, 1990:
   Sales: $7.75 billion
   Net income: $483.5 million; $1.63 a share*
                                                                                                       

   Fourth quarter, June 30, 1990:
   Per-share earnings: 40 cents vs. 40 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   668,482 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 269.9 million
                                                                                                       

   *Adjusted to reflect 5% stock dividend to be paid on Sept.
17.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- ABN-Amro Holding N.V.:
   Newly Merged Banks Post
   Rise in Joint Net for Half
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   N.ABN N.AMR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The two largest Dutch banks, Algemene Bank Nederland N.V.,
or ABN, and Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank N.V., or Amro, which
merged Aug. 24 to form ABN-Amro Holding N.V., reported that
their joint net income for the first half rose 1.9% to 703
million guilders ($398.3 million) from 690 million guilders a
year earlier.
   The profit was in line with analysts' expectations.
Earnings per share fell 5.5% to 2.77 guilders from 2.93
guilders. As part of the merger, shares in ABN and Amro were
exchanged for ABN-Amro Holding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two banks also declared an interim dividend of 1.40
guilders a share in ABN-Amro Holding. This compares with
interim payouts in 1989 of 1.40 guilders from ABN and 2.60
guilders from Amro. ABN-Amro Holding shares were priced on
par with ABN shares.
   Income, including categories such as interest income and
commissions, rose 4.7% to 4.93 billion guilders. Pre-tax
operating profit slipped less than 1% to 1.55 billion
guilders, but this was offset by a lower tax burden that was
reduced to 234 million guilders from 272 million guilders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   California High Court
   Bars Release of Tapes
   In Menendez Case
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LVE CRC
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- The California Supreme Court blocked
release of a psychologist's tape-recorded conversations with
the two sons of slain Live Entertainment Inc. Chairman Jose
Menendez and his wife, Kitty.
   The tapes, due to have been released to prosecutors today,
could be a key piece of evidence in the case against the
sons, Lyle and Erik Menendez, accused of murdering their
parents last year. They have denied the charges.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The court issued a stay pending its review of the
brothers' petition to overturn a recent lower court ruling
that ordered release of the tapes. The high court will act on
the petition before Oct. 26, a court clerk said.
   Earlier this month, Judge James Albracht accepted
prosecutors' arguments that the brothers allegedly threatened
psychologist Leon Jerome Oziel, thereby invalidating the
confidentiality of doctor-patient communications. The judge
indicated that none of the recorded sessions were privileged
because the psychologist had reason to believe that the
brothers were a threat to him that should be disclosed to
avoid danger.
   On Thursday, the ABC television show "Prime Time Live"
featured an interview with a woman identified as a former
girlfriend of Mr. Oziel's, who claimed the brothers confessed
to the murders in sessions with the psychologist last fall.
The woman said she overheard the sessions because the
psychologist had asked her to listen to them from outside his
office, allegedly because he was concerned for his safety.
The woman later told police about the sessions and the
existence of the tapes, according to the program.
   Jose Menendez and his wife were shot Aug. 20, 1989, in
their Beverly Hills, Calif. home. Their sons alerted police,
saying they had discovered the bodies on their return from
the movies. However, the sons were later charged with the
murders, and the tapes played a prominent role after Los
Angeles County district attorney Ira Reiner said they
contained "very important" evidence supporting allegations
that the brothers killed their parents to gain access to a
$14 million estate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Freight Futures Market in London Is Suggesting
   Significant Slowdown in Shipping Trade in 1991
   ----
   By Neil Behrmann
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MDEST FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- London's freight futures market is pointing to a
sharp slowdown in shipping trade in the coming year, dealers
say.
   As autumn nears, futures prices normally trade at a wide
premium to the index of freight rates, says Matthew Frank, a
trader at GNI Freight Futures Ltd. This year, however,
futures contracts over the next nine months are level with
the spot index of 1208 points, he says, while the contract
for next July is at a discount of 10%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The futures market reflects the consensus of the shipping
trade," an executive of an Oslo shipping company says.
"Demand for cargoes is waning, while the supply of ships is
rising at a rapid rate. As a result, the market expects
freight rates to decline."
   London's Baltic International Freight Futures Exchange
accounts for only a tiny proportion of the shipping market,
dealers say, but it is used by the trade as a guide to the
future. The market trades contracts based on an index of
important dry cargo shipping rates covering 14 shipping
routes. Grain accounts for about 60% of the index's
weighting, followed by iron ore and steel at 18%. The
remainder of the index is allocated to coal and phosphates.
   Gloomy forecasts by futures traders and shipping brokers
contrast with the smart 12% rally in the index of freight
rates since the beginning of July. The market became
depressed when expected grain orders from the Soviet Union
and China failed to materialize, Mr. Frank of GNI says.
   Having begun to appreciate from their July lows, freight
futures prices jumped when Iraq invaded Kuwait, he says.
Shipowners raised freight rates to compensate for the surge
in bunker fuel prices, Mr. Frank says, and international
grain traders, taking advantage of low corn, wheat and barley
prices, bought cargoes for shipment.
   Yet it is highly unlikely that shipowners will maintain
freight rates, ship brokers say.
   Despite the rally in the past two months, the Baltic
Freight index is down 31% from its all time high of 1750
points in May 1989. The decline almost matches freight rates
of a ship carrying 55,000 metric tons of grain from the Gulf
of Mexico to Ports of Antwerp, Amsterdam and Rotterdam, which
have fallen to $11 a metric ton from $15 a ton last year.
Meanwhile, ships ranging from 25,000 metric tons to more than
100,000 tons lowered their charges this year, says Peter
Kerr-Dineen, a director of Howe Robinson Shipbrokers.
   The freight index was buoyant in 1988 and 1989 because of
huge Soviet orders for grain, a growing world economy and
fewer new ships, Mr. Kerr-Dineen says.
   In the coming 12 months, however, the Soviet Union, China
and India are unlikely to import vast quantities of grain, he
says. And a slowdown in production of steel and other bulk
commodities will help reduce the flow of cargoes across the
oceans, he says.
   While demand is falling, supply has increased. The revival
in trade between 1987 to 1989 encouraged shipowners to build
more ships, and fewer of the older vessels are being
scrapped, brokers say.
   As a result, ships equivalent to 67 millions tons
deadweight were on order by the first quarter this year,
compared with 33 million tons deadweight at the end of 1987,
says Robert Garner, a joint managing director of Eggar
Forrester Ltd., London ship brokers.
   At the end of June there were orders for 398 ships,
including oil, bulk cargo and combination carriers, he says.
This quantity was much larger than in previous years.
   The crisis in the Persian Gulf will aggravate the
situation, Mr. Garner says. The Iraqi trade blockade and
mines in the Persian Gulf will force large "combination
ships," which can transport either oil or dry cargoes, to
compete for grain, iron ore or coal business, he says. As a
result other shipowners will lower freight rates, Mr. Garner
predicts.
   "Nevertheless," says Philip Rogers, head of research at
Simpson, Spence &amp; Young, London ship brokers, "I don't
foresee a collapse of the freight market. But shipping trade
is likely to be flat next year."
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Gold
                                                                                                       

   Gold turned quiet around midweek as tensions cooled a bit
in the Persian Gulf, and eased Friday -- a trend analysts say
may continue.
   One analyst says the Mideast crisis remains the major
factor in gold, but the dollar appears to be having a renewed
influence.
   "Historically, the dollar has had a greater impact on gold
when it is strong than when it weakens," the analyst says,
"so the easiness of gold may be forecasting a stronger
dollar."
   Significantly, he says, the lower trend in gold is taking
place when prices for crude oil and products are strong and
generating an inflationary climate.
   A negative for precious metals in general, he says, is
that there is very little investor demand for gold, even less
for platinum and practically none for silver.
   Another analyst, Dinsa Mehta, chief bullion trader for
Chase Manhattan Bank, says the market at the moment was
"anticipating peace" but that overall it "remains
event-driven."
   Craig Sloane, precious metals analyst for Smith Barney,
says the market at the weekend was "sort of haphazard and
giving no real signs of what is in store" this week.
                                                                                                       

   Grains and Soybeans
                                                                                                       

   This week traders will watch for any sign that wheat
prices can find strength after the value of some contracts
dropped about 8% last week.
   Wheat prices are sinking amid forecasts that large
harvests in the Soviet Union might trim its demand for U.S.
crops. At the same time, other countries, such as India, are
dealing with good-sized crops. According to traders, India
might export one million metric tons of wheat. It usually
isn't such a large supplier.
   "The world is awash in wheat," says Victor Lespinasse,
assistant vice president of Dean Witter Reynolds, Chicago.
   Traders will also continue to watch the military crisis in
the Persian Gulf. If oil prices climb sharply this week,
grain prices would tend to follow suit on speculation that
some oil-producing nations might use their higher revenues to
buy more U.S. grain.
                                                                                                       

   Sugar
                                                                                                       

   Futures prices plunged a half cent a pound Friday on a
reported world market sale of sugar by Brazil. Traders
departed for the long holiday weekend wondering if further
sales were in store this week.
   According to one analyst, Brazil was reported to have sold
as much as 170,000 tons of refined sugar to international
trade houses. "It caught the market by surprise because no
one expected export sales so soon in the new season that
began June 1," the analyst says.
   The sales raise questions as to how much more sugar Brazil
may have for sale, the analyst says. Due to high oil prices,
Brazil had been expected to divert more cane to alcohol and
withhold sugar stocks in case they were needed for internal
consumption, either as alcohol or sugar, she says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Rival Poised
   To Clone
   Intel Chip
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   INTC AMD
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SANTA CLARA, Calif. -- A chip maker, threatening one of
Silicon Valley's most lucrative monopolies, is preparing to
clone Intel Corp.'s cash cow, the 80386.
   Advanced Micro Devices Inc. is expected this fall to
unveil the clone of the 80386 microprocessor, the "brain" of
choice for the world's new personal computers. At least two
other semiconductor companies are expected to make chips next
year that could be used to replace the 80386.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, the outcomes of two legal disputes could make
it easier for AMD to compete with Intel's star chip. An
arbitrator is expected to issue a ruling in September that
may let AMD make exact copies -- not just reverse-engineered
clones -- of the Intel chip. And next year a U.S. district
court will decide whether AMD may use Intel copyrights in
chips it sells.
   The would-be cloners certainly have a juicy target: the
huge market Intel has cornered by refusing to let anyone make
its 80386 chip, which analysts expect to bring nearly $1
billion in revenue to Intel this year. And the cloners have
an eager potential clientele among computer makers, many of
whom are irate at Intel for not making enough 80386 chips.
   Intel expects to meet demand by the end of the year, but
supply is so far behind that an unofficial spot market has
developed in which a version called the 80386SX typically
sells for 2.5 times the list price of $65.
   "The marketplace today absolutely needs something that
looks like a 386, works like a 386 and, hopefully, plugs into
a 386 slot," says Vinod Mahendroo, marketing director at
Chips &amp; Technologies Inc., which analysts say plans to sell
an Intel clone next year. He declined comment about that, but
added, "Intel's monopoly is absolutely hurting the
marketplace right now."
   No one expects clones to deal a lethal blow to Intel,
which has a knack for staying ahead of competition
technologically and is sure to fight tooth and nail to defend
its intellectual property against AMD and others.
   Still, the specter of even a little competition has given
Wall Street the jitters about Intel. The company's stock
price dropped 3.3% one day in mid-August after Bear, Stearns
&amp; Co. analyst Andrew Neff lowered his rating on the stock,
partly because of possible competition from 80386 knock-offs.
   Analyst Michael Gumport of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.
suggests that investors hold a share of AMD for each Intel
share, in case Intel loses the arbitration or litigation
against AMD. "It doesn't make sense to own Intel without
owning AMD as a hedge," he says.
   On Friday, AMD stock rose 12.5 cents to $5.375 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, while Intel shares rose 25
cents to $33.375 in national over-the-counter trading.
   AMD has little to lose and much to gain from battling
Intel. A sure-fire winner such as an 80386 clone would
breathe life into AMD's moribund product line, which helped
plunge the company into a net loss in its latest quarter.
AMD's version of Intel's older 80286 chip, which AMD makes
under license, has been a big moneymaker. But computer makers
are switching to the faster 80386, which can handle a broader
range of applications.
   AMD's battle plan to break into Intel's turf will play out
over the next several months:
   -- In September, an arbitrator is expected to rule on
AMD's charges that Intel reneged on a 1982 deal that was to
give AMD the right to make exact copies of the 80386. Under
the agreement, which set rules by which the companies were to
barter chip designs, Intel was to trade the rights to its
microprocessors for the rights to certain AMD chips. AMD
claims that Intel unfairly refused to accept AMD's chip
designs; Intel says AMD didn't create acceptable chips.
   -- AMD launched a second attack last June when it unveiled
a chip that mimics an Intel chip called the 80287. AMD's
knockoff copies Intel's copyrighted "microcode," or internal
instructions, which AMD claims it has the right to use under
a 1976 agreement. Using a chip's microcode provides a
valuable short cut in cloning the chip. Intel sued, arguing
that AMD can only copy the code for internal use or publish
it in manuals.
   A U.S. district court is scheduled to hear the case in
February. If it rules in AMD's favor on the 80287, AMD also
would be free to use Intel's microcode for the 80386.
   -- Meanwhile, AMD is expected to unveil a clone of the
80386, probably in November, regardless of the arbitration
and litigation. AMD won't talk about the chip but doesn't
deny it has one in the pipeline. The clone would probably be
a reverse-engineered chip -- one built to mimic the Intel
chip without infringing on Intel-owned technology.
   AMD is likely to show its new chip within a month of the
arbitration's results, says analyst Daniel Klesken of
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. "It won't be a worldbeater,"
he says, "But it's going to be an important chip for AMD."
   The enormous profit margins of the 80386 would allow even
a late-coming AMD chip to provide AMD with healthy, though
thinner, profits, analysts say. Intel's 80386 provides gross
profit margins of as much as 80%, analysts estimate, compared
with the 35% typical of chips. Intel sold about five million
of the chips in 1989, analysts estimate, and will sell over
eight million this year. The chip helped push Intel's net
income up 72% in the latest quarter.
   And although AMD is the biggest combatant, other chip
makers are looking at the wealth, too. Besides the expected
Chips and Technologies product, tiny V.M. Technology Corp. of
Japan says it expects to unveil a 80386 clone by year end.
NexGen Microsystems Inc. of San Jose, Calif., plans to
complete a set of chips early next year that let companies
build personal computers that mimic 80386-based machines
without using the chip.
   Even Intel allies say they would consider buying a clone.
One test will be whether the clones can run unaltered
software from companies such as Microsoft Corp. and Lotus
Development Corp. "If those companies give it a clean bill of
health, the market will accept it and manufacturers like us
will take it as a second source," says Safi Qureshey,
president and chief executive officer of AST Research Inc., a
major personal computer maker and a loyal Intel customer.
   Chip experts caution that would-be cloners face a
monumental task in creating a truly compatible chip without
infringing on Intel's intellectual property rights. Still,
concedes Ronald Whittier, Intel's marketing vice president:
"The realities are that when you get to a critical component,
a customer would like to see a multiple source."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Shares Fall Sharply on Rumors of Probe
   Of Possible Stock Manipulation; London Gains
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA EUROP JAPAN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stock prices fell sharply in Monday's afternoon
session as speculative shares were sold on rumors that
financial authorities had begun investigating the possible
stock manipulation behind recent stock price surges of Honshu
Paper &amp; Pulp.
   Share prices closed higher in London, but were unable to
sustain the peak that came at the opening of trading as a
holiday on Wall Street damped trading volume.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was down 557.94
points at 25,420.43. The index gained 308.41 points Friday to
25,978.37 as stocks rose in moderately active trading Friday,
fueled by buying on speculative issues.
   At the end of morning trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the Nikkei
index was down 343.48 points to 25076.95.
   In Monday's trading, the indexes moved narrowly in the
morning session due to little buying and selling, then
dropped at a fast pace in the afternoon.
   In addition to declines on prices of speculative shares,
the market failed to support stock prices because of a lack
of buying, traders said.
   Sentiment was also damped, traders said, by the upturn of
oil prices as well as by a Japanese wire news report quoting
the London Sunday Times that the U.S. had unofficially
decided to use military force against Iraq.
   Volume on the first section was estimated at 360 million
shares, down from 592 million shares Friday.
   Declining issues outnumbered advancing issues 607 to 346,
while 149 issues remained unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index, or Topix, of all issues
listed in the first section, which gained 17.95 points
Friday, was down 28.05 points, or 1.42%, at 1,945.92.
   The second section index, which advanced 59.62 points
Friday, was down 8.62 points, or 0.23%, to close at 3,821.84.
   Volume in the second section was estimated at eight
million shares, down from 14.8 million shares Friday.
   Also pushing down stock prices Monday were rounds of heavy
arbitrage selling linked to the unwinding of September
futures contracts ahead of their expiration on Sept. 13,
traders said.
   Among sharp losers was Honshu Paper, which lost 500 yen
($3.46) to finish at 4,380 yen. The issue rose 1,020 yen in
the week of Aug. 23 as rumors on buying by a speculator group
prompted buying by dealers and individual investors. However,
as rumors on the investigation were spread on the market
Monday afternoon, losses extended to other shares that had
also been bought on rumors of speculative buying, traders
said.
   Kurabo, which surged nearly 600 yen in the past week,
ended the day at 1,829 yen, down 80 yen.
   The impact of losses made by speculative shares Monday was
strong as they were the major focus of buying activity in the
past week, said Yoshihiro Ito, general manager of stock
trading at Okasan Securities.
   Traders said investors were mostly calm about the report
on the possible U.S. military attack on Iraq. As reflected on
Monday's overall trade volume, there was a small amount of
selling, they said.
   "It (the report) was mostly perceived as speculation,"
said Shigeru Akiba, head of equity at UBS Phillips &amp; Drew
International.
   "But it certainly sent investors to the sidelines. They
can't buy with such news reported," he said.
   Material manufacturing sectors were lower Monday,
including steel, chemical and paper and pulp, whose earnings
are expected to be hurt most severely by higher oil prices.
   Particularly, steel companies were sold by institutions
who were discouraged by poor outlooks for earnings for the
current fiscal year, reported by a local newspaper during the
weekend. In addition to higher oil prices, higher interest
rates are likely to damage steel companies' profits, traders
said.
   NKK lost 15 yen to 465 yen, while Kobe Steel fell 12 yen
to 485 yen.
   Advancing issues included electricals and resource stocks.
Nippon Oil was up 10 yen to 1,100 yen, while Teikoku Oil
gained 60 yen to 1,420 yen.
   C. Itoh was bought on reports that the trading house will
begin importing crude oil from Indonesia in December. C. Itoh
ended at 700 yen, up 15 yen.
   London shares closed higher, but traders said volume was
kept at recent levels by the U.S. holiday and developments in
the Middle East, including the unsuccessful end to United
Nations-Iraqi talks.
   "Market makers are doing what they want with prices," one
trader said. "No one wants to deal with them."
   Initially, the softening in the pound helped equities to
rise modestly. But the rally began to fade late in the
morning, when higher-than-expected retail sales figures for
July were reported. The report showed a rise of 1.31% on the
month, up from the provisional report of a 1% rise, and
suggested hopes of an imminent cut in U.K. interest rates
were misplaced.
   At the close, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share
index was up 3.8 points at 2,166.6. The index gained 9.2
points on Friday to close at 2,162.8.
   The narrower FT 30-share index closed down 6.2 points at
1,687.4, slightly down from Friday's figure of 1,693.6.
   Volume Monday was 220.2 million shares. Friday's volume
was 357.5 million shares.
   In the futures markets, the December 100-index contract
was trading at 2,233.5, down from Friday's close of 2,244.5.
   Profit-taking in banking stocks, which have enjoyed a big
mark-up recently, led to an easing in share prices. Lloyds
Bank shares fell 5 pence (9.6 cents) to 269 pence. Shares in
Barclays Bank fell 3 pence to 356 pence, and Midland Bank
shares fell 5 pence to 258 pence.
   An initial upward momentum was shaved off
domestic-market-oriented stocks as July retail sales figures
indicated a drop in U.K. interest rates would not be likely.
Rank Hovis shares fell a penny to 294 pence. Thames Water
shares dropped 2 pence to 228 pence. Allied-Lyons shares
dropped 5 pence to 484 pence.
   Folowing a buy notice from two securities houses, shares
in British Aerospace rose 12 pence to 544 pence. British
Aerospace is part of the Airbus Industrie consortium, which
Sunday said it expects to be profitable for the first time
this year.
   Polly Peck shares fell 6 pence to 285 pence after being up
as much as 6 pence shortly after the report of a 72% rise in
pretax profit for the first six months of the year. Analysts,
however, said they remain wary of the company's standing
following a stock exchange investigation into the chairman's
aborted move to take the company private.
   Elsewhere, share prices closed lower in Brussels,
Frankfurt, Milan, Paris and Stockholm; mixed in Zurich, and
little changed in Amsterdam. South African gold stocks closed
mixed.
   Share prices closed lower in Sydney, Hong Kong, Singapore,
Taipei, Manila and Wellington, but surged higher in Seoul.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                    % This
                                Aug 31    Aug 30     Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .....................   298.4      295.1     - 8.2
   Britain ..................   641.5      639.2     -11.0
   Canada ...................   372.4      370.1     -13.9
   Japan ....................  1098.9     1091.8     -33.6
   France ...................   472.8      480.9     -16.6
   Germany ..................   261.1      265.4     - 8.5
   Hong Kong ................  2252.9     2239.5     + 7.4
   Switzerland ..............   188.9      189.0     -14.4
   Australia ................   307.3      307.1     - 7.2

   ---
                Weekly Percentage Leaders
                                                                                                       

   Last week's best and worst performing stocks   among those
issues that make up 80% of the world's   stock market
capitalization (in local currency)
                                                                                                       

   ISSUE (COUNTRY)                         CLOSE      %CHG
                                                                                                       

                      WINNING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

 Northern Star Holdings (Australia) ..     0.06       +50.0
 Ube Industries (Japan) ..............   762.0        +47.1
 Kurabo Industries (Japan) ...........  1900.0        +43.9
 Sanden (Japan) ......................  1240.0        +38.5
 Nippon Shokubai (Japan) .............  1520.0        +35.7
 Vard (Japan) ........................   115.0        +35.3
 Ryobi (Japan) .......................   916.0        +32.8
 Ashley (Laura) Holdings (England) ...     0.62       +31.9
 Showa Line (Japan) ..................  1020.0        +31.1
 Steyr-Daimler-Puch (Austria) ........   196.0        +30.7
                                                                                                       

                       LOSING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

 Metana Minerals (Australia) .........     0.35       -31.4
 Renouf (N.Zealand) ..................     0.06       -25.0
 Emperor Mines (Australia1) ..........      .2        -17.2
 Kern (Australia) ....................     0.4        -16.7
 McAlpine-Alfred (England) ...........     2.76       -16.1
 Instrumentarium B. Free (Finland) ...   160.0        -15.8
 Crusader (Australia) ................     0.85       -15.0
 Poseidon (Australia) ................     2.14       -14.4
 Bramalea (Canada) ...................     8.25       -14.3
 Bell Group (Australia) ..............     0.06       -14.3
                                                                                                       

   Source: Morgan Stanley Capital Intl. Perspective
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BAGHDAD TOLD nations with citizens trapped in Iraq to send
them food.
   Although Baghdad permitted the weekend departure of
several hundred foreigners, including Americans, it then
balked at allowing more airlifts, and solicited food
shipments for the hostages. The Iraqi government also
suspended payment of its foreign debt, conservatively
estimated at between $30 billion and $35 billion.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. is expected to announce a plan to forgive much of
the $7 billion in military debt owed by Egypt, a stalwart
American ally. And in another move to shore up support for
anti-Iraq action, Bush will confer Sunday with Gorbachev.
Meetings between the U.N.'s chief and Iraq's foreign minister
were fruitless.
   A U.S. Air Force F-16 fighter crashed in southern Saudi
Arabia during a training mission, but the solo pilot bailed
out safely, the Pentagon reported.
   ---
   New Zealand's Geoffrey Palmer resigned as prime minister
after opinion polls indicated his ruling Labor Party would be
defeated in next month's elections by the National Party.
Palmer said he would be succeeded by Foreign Minister Mike
Moore, who will be the country's third Labor prime minister
in little more than a year.
   ---
   Soviets lined up for bread at stores across Moscow for the
first time in years, with many blaming President Gorbachev's
policies for shortages of a growing list of products that
includes tobacco, paper, cheese and gasoline. The last time
Soviets could remember long bread lines was under Premier
Khrushchev, ousted in 1964.
                                                                                                       

   A radical economic plan was presented to Soviet leaders
Friday, as Gorbachev and Russian republic leader Yeltsin
seemed ready to scuttle most of a prior plan that was
prepared by Premier Ryzhkov. The new package calls for
earlier deregulation of most prices, along with large-scale
privatization.
   ---
   The Phnom Penh government said the Khmer Rouge guerrillas
want to sabotage a Cambodian peace settlement and are
preparing for prolonged civil war. All four factions involved
in Cambodia's 11-year conflict are to meet tomorrow in
Indonesia to discuss a five-nation plan that would give the
U.N. the power to oversee a cease-fire.
   ---
   East and West Germany signed a landmark unity treaty
Friday covering the merger of their legal and political
systems after the Oct. 3 unification of the two countries.
The treaty, which included a compromise on German abortion
laws, is expected to be approved by both parliaments
following debate over the next few weeks.
   ---
   NASA began its third countdown for space shuttle Columbia,
scheduled for liftoff Thursday. Last week, communications
problems with the shuttle's $150 million observatory prompted
space agency officials to call off a launch planned for
Saturday. A fuel leak halted the first countdown in May.
   ---
   The South African government freed 11 African National
Congress prisoners, the first of many due for release as a
precondition for talks between Pretoria and the
anti-apartheid group. As many as 3,500 political prisoners
are to be released by the government over the next five
months.
   ---
   A study found that exposure to polluted air can provoke
life-threatening irregular heartbeats in people suffering
from coronary artery disease. The report is further evidence
that carbon monoxide -- an urban pollutant emitted in auto
exhaust and by industrial smokestacks -- is harmful to the
heart.
   ---
   Rebel leader Charles Taylor declared war on a West African
peacekeeping force in Liberia, calling it a band of foreign
mercenaries. Taylor's insurgent group has been battling the
4,000 soldiers since they arrived in Monrovia 10 days ago.
The troops have been welcomed by rival guerrilla leader
Prince Johnson and by President Doe.
   ---
   Somalia's president dismissed the East African nation's
prime minister and his seven-month-old government as
diplomats reported that fighting between security forces and
rebels was intensifying in central regions of the country.
Siad Barre, who faces severe economic and social problems,
gave no reason for his action.
   ---
   About 135,000 public employees began a planned weeklong
strike in the Indian-ruled sector of Kashmir to protest
alleged brutalities by Indian police. At least nine people
were killed in two days of fighting between security forces
and Moslem activists.
   ---
   Canadian soldiers encircled a handful of defiant Mohawks
inside an alcohol treatment center at the Kanesatake
reservation in Oka, Quebec. Earlier, the army bulldozed
barricades that were erected seven weeks ago by Mohawks at
the reservation, and at a second Indian settlement, in a
dispute over a land claim involving a golf course.
   ---
   Ethnic Albanians staged a one-day strike to protest
Serbian rule in Yugoslavia's Kosovo province. Tensions have
risen since Serbia dissolved Kosovo's government and
Parliament in July after ethnic Albanian deputies issued a
declaration of independence from Serbia.
   ---
   Japan's Premier Kaifu prepared for Soviet Foreign Minister
Shevardnadze's visit to Tokyo today by declaring that Moscow
must give back four occupied northern islands before it can
hope for friendship and cooperation from the Japanese.
   ---
   Died: Robert Holmes a Court, 53, Australian businessman
known for takeover bids, Sunday, near Perth, Australia, of a
heart attack . . . Edwin O. Reischauer, 79, U.S. ambassador
to Japan from 1961 to 1966, Saturday, in La Jolla, Calif., of
hepatitis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   College Rules to Curb Bias Draw
   Challenge on Constitutional Basis
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus and Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   AMB AAL BN J.MMP
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
INSURANCE (INS)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   As an increasing number of colleges adopt regulations to
deal with incidents of ethnic, racial and homosexual
harassment, controversy is brewing over whether the new rules
violate students' First Amendment rights to free speech.
   Efforts to stem discriminatory behavior and speech on
campus are coming under fire by legal groups, students and
professors as violating free expression guaranteed by the
Constitution, says David S. Tatel of the Washington law firm
Hogan &amp; Hartson.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last year, a federal court struck down as unconstitutional
an anti-harassment rule adopted by the University of
Michigan. The university has since worked with the American
Civil Liberties Union affiliate that represented the
plaintiffs in drafting a new interim policy that is more
narrow, said Walter Harrison, executive director of
university relations at the University of Michigan.
   "We're really mapping out new ground in trying to protect
the free expression essential to higher education and at the
same time providing a hospitable environment for a student
body that's increasingly diverse," said Mr. Harrison.
   Since 1987, incidents of racial, ethnic and homosexual
harassment have occurred on more than 300 college campuses,
according to the National Institute Against Prejudice and
Violence, a Baltimore-based research organization. The
organization said that between 800,000 and one million
minority students are involved in such incidents every school
year.
   "The First Amendment issue has to be seen in the larger
framework of those figures," said Robert Purvis, legal
director of the National Institute. "Some of the First
Amendment values are operating at the expense of minorities."
   Exceptions to First Amendment protections are very limited
and include some defamatory speech and obscenity. Many
schools have based their anti-harassment policies on a 1942
U.S. Supreme Court decision that found that "fighting words"
that inflict injury or tend to incite immediate violence
aren't protected by the First Amendment.
   But Nadine Strossen, general counsel for the ACLU, said
that in order to be held constitutional the rules "would have
to be so narrow that they wouldn't apply to any of the
underlying incidents that gave rise to the desire for
regulations in the first place." And Ms. Strossen worries
that the rules will ultimately be used to silence the very
students they were designed to protect.
   Nonetheless, proponents say the regulations have made a
difference on campus. "We still have ugly things happen. But
because of the rule people are less inclined to do outrageous
things," said James Sulton, special assistant to the
president for minority affairs at the University of
Wisconsin, which adopted an anti-harassment policy last year.
   Mr. Sulton said the university worked with three law
professors in order to craft a policy that could withstand
court challenges. The results of those efforts are now being
tested. In March, a group of students, an instructor and a
student newspaper represented by the Wisconsin affiliate of
the ACLU filed suit against the school's board of regents,
alleging that the policy restricts free speech and violates
constitutional protections. The case is pending.
   ---
   SMOKING LIABILITY case is set to make its third appearance
in court.
   The closely watched case, Horton vs. American Tobacco Co.,
is scheduled to begin today in Lafayette County Circuit Court
in Oxford, Miss. The case originally went to trial in January
1988 in Lexington, Miss.
   Nathan H. Horton, a housing contractor, died of lung
cancer in 1987. His family charged American Tobacco with
"marketing a defective and unreasonably dangerous product."
   American Tobacco, a unit of American Brands Inc., denied
any responsibility for Mr. Horton's death, but the case has
raised hopes among anti-smoking forces. Mississippi state law
is more favorable to plaintiffs than most other states. Under
its so-called comparative-negligence law, the jury could have
awarded damages to the Horton family even if it had found the
tobacco company bore only 1% of the responsibility for Mr.
Horton's death.
   The first trial, however, ended in a hung jury amid
charges of jury tampering. A second trial began last April,
but complaints made by American Tobacco prompted Circuit
Court Judge Eugene Bogen to halt the proceedings. Before the
trial began, newspapers, broadcasters and local civic and
political leaders had received a packet of information from
the plaintiffs' attorneys that included statements that
tobacco companies were targeting blacks and other minorities
in their marketing efforts.
   Judge Bogen, in approving a motion by American Tobacco for
a delay in the case and a change of venue, characterized the
statements as a "blatant attempt to make an appeal on the
basis of race to the persons in Holmes County, and thus
indirectly on the jury pool."
   The judge also placed a gag order on all parties. "He may
not change his order until the jury comes back," said Mike
Davis, an attorney in the Austin, Texas, firm of Byrd, Davis
&amp; Eisenberg, which is helping to represent the Horton family.
"But we'll have a lot to say about this case then."
   An American Brands spokesman said the company doesn't
comment on litigation.
   ---
   A JUDGE CUT an award against Alexander &amp; Alexander
Services Inc.
   The punitive damage award was reduced from $40 million to
$12.5 million. It had been granted by a jury in Baltimore
City Circuit Court to a local broker who had accused the big
New York-based insurance brokerage firm of conspiring to
replace it as the insurance representative for a local
hospital. The award, granted in May, was believed to be one
of the largest ever in a dispute between insurance brokerage
firms over a client relationship.
   At a hearing early last week, Judge Meyer Cardin let the
verdict against Alexander &amp; Alexander Services stand, but
indicated that the award was too high, according to an
attorney who attended the hearing. Judge Cardin signed the
order Friday.
   B. Dixon Evander &amp; Associates, the Baltimore broker, also
alleged that Alexander had conspired to refuse to pay Dixon
Evander commissions due on a policy for the University of
Maryland Hospital that Dixon Evander had arranged. Alexander
and two other defendants in the case also were ordered to pay
compensatory damages totaling $644,016.
   The judge didn't grant Alexander's request for a new
trial. William W. Cahill, Alexander's trial attorney, said
the brokerage firm will appeal the judgment.
   ---
   $100.3 MILLION JUDGMENT in Texas prison overcrowding case
to be appealed.
   A state judge in Austin concluded that the state of Texas
owes the money to 12 counties that held prisoners who
couldn't be housed in already-jammed state facilities. The
total is based on Judge Joseph Hart's decision that the state
must pay $40 a day for the care of each prisoner the county
holds more than seven days. The ruling covers a period from
Sept. 28, 1987 through Feb. 28 of this year.
   Litigation involving cramped state prisons isn't uncommon,
but the size of the judgment in the Texas case is unusual,
says Ann Clarke Snell, an attorney with the Austin firm
Bickerstaff, Heath &amp; Smiley, counsel for 11 of the counties.
But Robert Ozer, an assistant attorney general in Texas,
argues there isn't any statutory authority for the judge's
ruling, and that it undermines legislation aimed at diverting
inmates from overcrowded state prisons.
   "Now counties will be able to crowd local jails and get
paid $40 a day for doing it," says Mr. Ozer.
   ---
   BORDEN ACCUSES Japanese dairy company of trademark
infringement.
   For seven years, Borden Inc. and Meiji Milk Products Co.
of Tokyo have been partners in a venture to make and sell
margarine products in Japan under Borden trademarks. Now, as
the licensing agreement is about to expire, Borden has filed
a lawsuit accusing Meiji of proposing its own products using
packaging confusingly similar to Borden's.
   In the suit, filed in federal court in Manhattan, Borden
said the Meiji packaging will mislead Japanese consumers. The
suit said the packaging is nearly identical to that of the
Borden-licensed product, except that the Borden logo is
replaced.
   "Meiji is proposing identical packaging and trade dress
for margarine products in direct competition with other
Borden margarine products," the suit said. "Meiji is
intending to substitute its margarine products for the Borden
margarine products on the shelves of the retail outlets
throughout Japan."
   The suit asks the court to prohibit Meiji from
distributing or marketing the products. It was filed in
Manhattan because the licensing agreement is governed by New
York and U.S. law.
   Meiji officials couldn't be reached for comment.
   ---
   Glenn Ruffenach and Wayne E. Green contributed to this
column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Breakdown Line
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   News reports are constant
   On all sorts of diseases;
   The steady flow of symptoms
   Never really eases.
   But among these is the question
   With which we can dispense:
   It's the article that asks
   Why are we all so tense.
   -- Joshua Adams.
   ---
   Straggler's Theory
                                                                                                       

   Self-starters have my deep respect --
   They've earned their lofty rank.
   We laggards follow, I suspect,
   Because we need a crank.
   -- Bert H. Kruse.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Buying Bonds in Tough Times Can Be Tricky Business
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   When economic storm clouds gather, investors often seek
cover by switching out of stocks and into bonds. But a look
at history shows that bonds don't always live up to their
reputation as sturdy shelters in tough economic times.
   Even money managers who strongly recommend bonds warn that
investors must be careful about which types of bonds they
buy, what maturities, and how they time their purchases
during periods of economic sluggishness.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Generally speaking, it's probably safe to predict that
bonds will do well in recessions," says Richard Berner, an
economist at Salomon Brothers Inc. "But remember, no two
recessions are identical."
   Long-term bonds were spectacular investments in the
1981-1982 recession. As inflation and interest rates fell,
investors in long-term Treasury bonds earned a total return
(income plus price change) for the recession period of 43.93%
and those holding long-term corporate bonds earned 43.74%,
statistics compiled by Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. show.
Stock-market investors, meanwhile, had to be content with a
total return of 9.9%, as measured by Standard &amp; Poor's
500-stock index.
   But in the brief 1980 recession, at a time when inflation
was very high, stocks proved better investments than
long-term government bonds. Shearson's index of long-term
government bonds showed a total return of about 6.05%,
compared with a return of 8.86% on the stocks in the S&amp;P 500.
   Looking back further, to the 1973-1975 recession, bonds
produced higher returns than stocks did. But short-term
Treasury bills did better than either stocks or long-term
bonds. Statistics compiled by BARRA, a Berkeley, Calif.,
investment research firm, show short-term Treasury bills
returned 10.35% over that period. That compared with 7.34% on
long-term Treasury bonds and 0.98% on long-term corporate
bonds, according to Shearson.
   The 1973-1975 slump is being re-examined with special
attention these days, since it came amid surging oil prices
and higher inflation.
   History also underscores the importance of paying close
attention to credit quality. For example, investors who
bought low-rated corporate bonds in the 1973-1975 recession
suffered sizable losses, says Virginia Henneberry, first vice
president at Shearson. Those who bought Treasury issues did
much better.
   Timing can be tricky, too. As the accompanying chart
shows, bond yields frequently rise and prices tumble in the
very early stages of recessions (see accompanying
illustration -- WSJ Sept. 4, 1990). Then, as the economic
downturn becomes more fully established, yields fall and
prices rise. Thus, investors who rush to bonds for safety
shortly before the onset of a recession can get burned. Bond
traders say it's frequently better to wait to buy bonds until
after the recession has started.
   Don't assume, though, that interest rates will always be
lower after a recession than beforehand. Although bond yields
fell sharply in 1981-1982, that didn't happen in 1973-1975;
yields actually ended the recession higher than they were
before the slump began.
   So where does all this leave jittery investors seeking a
haven from what appears at least to be a weakening economy?
   Those who are unsure where the economy is headed, but fear
that inflation is about to soar, may prefer short-term
Treasury bills and bank certificates of deposit. Either could
be a better bet in coming months than long-term bonds or
stocks if inflation should rise.
   For investors who suspect the recession will be more
severe and prolonged than generally expected, history does
favor bonds. Even though bond prices frequently drop in the
very early stages of recessions, several analysts say a
severe economic slump would eventually quash inflation
pressures and make bonds sparkle once again, as they did in
1981-1982.
   Investors who do decide to buy bonds will probably come
out best with Treasury issues, many leading money managers
and economists agree. "Stick with Treasurys, Treasurys and
Treasurys -- nothing but Treasurys," advises William H.
Gross, a managing director of Pacific Investment Management
Co. in Newport Beach, Calif.
   An important reason for favoring Treasurys over corporate
bonds is corporate America's huge borrowing spree in the
1980s, several money managers say. They argue that so many
companies sank so deeply into debt that the next recession
will bring severe financial strains. When that happens, they
argue, Treasurys will offer better total returns than
corporates, especially lower-rated corporates.
   Several investment managers also recommend
intermediate-term and long-term, top-rated municipal bonds.
That's partly because they fear Congress will raise taxes to
close the budget gap, increasing the attractiveness of
tax-free bonds.
   Utility bonds may also have a place in the portfolios of
investors who want higher yields than those offered by
Treasurys. Statistics from Shearson and Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets show intermediate and long-term utility bonds
produced very high returns in the 1981-1982 recession,
topping both comparable Treasurys and industrial bonds.
Utility bonds also did well in the 1980 recession,
outperforming both Treasurys and industrials, although they
didn't fare as well in the 1973-1975 slump.
   Money managers disagree about whether intermediate-term
bonds (those maturing in five to 10 years) or long-term bonds
(with maturities of 10 to 30 years) will prove to be the most
rewarding. Several fear long-term bonds won't perform nearly
as well as the shorter-term issues for at least the next few
months.
   Intermediate-term bonds "have often been a better place to
be than long bonds" during the past three recessions, says
Thomas Sowanick, senior strategist at Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets. In each of the past two recessions, the yield curve
steepened, meaning that short-term and intermediate-term
rates fell more than longterm rates.
   Some individual investors use a diversification strategy
known as "laddering." That approach involves buying bonds of
widely varying maturities, ranging from short-term to
long-term. Short-term bonds look best when interest rates
surge, while longer-term bonds are better when interest rates
tumble. These investors typically arrange their holdings so
that they have a certain amount of their bonds coming due
each year, providing new cash to reinvest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Why We're Over There
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   In regard to "The Stakes in the Gulf" (editorial, Aug.
15), I think the stupidity of President Bush's decision to
send troops to the Mideast is beyond description. Your
editorial conveniently fails to mention that the main reason
our troops have been sent is that Congress has persistently
and repeatedly refused to allow the Arab countries to arm
themselves adequately.
   D. Thomas Urban, M.D.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   San Jose, California
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Great American Management
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GAMI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Great American Management &amp; Investment Inc.
said a partnership that controls the company completed the
previously announced sale of an 18% Great American stake to
Hellman &amp; Friedman.
   The company said Equity Holdings Ltd. sold two million
shares of its Great American stock for $25 each. The sale
trims its stake to 74% from 92%. Great American has interests
in manufacturing, real estate, financial services,
agricultural chemicals and fertilizers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Scientific Software-Intercomp Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SSFT
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   SCIENTIFIC SOFTWARE-INTERCOMP Inc. (Denver) -- E.A.
Breitenbach, chairman and chief executive officer of this
software and consulting services concern, was named to the
added posts of president and chief operating officer,
succeeding R.C. McFarlane, who resigned. Mr. McFarlane will
remain a consultant to the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alberta Natural
   To Take Control
   Of Joint Venture
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   T.ANG PCG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
</IN>
<LP>
   CALGARY, Alberta -- Alberta Natural Gas Co. said it plans
to secure control of its troubled magnesium production joint
venture with Houston-based Magnesium International Corp.
   Norman Wagner, Alberta Natural's chairman and newly
appointed chief executive officer, said the company expects
to invest a further 50 million Canadian dollars (US$43.6
million) or so to win an unspecified majority interest in
Magnesium Co. of Canada, the joint venture that operates the
plant at High River, Alberta.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Wagner wouldn't say by how much Alberta Natural plans
to raise its stake. But he said its effort to secure control
of the venture, which has been hurt by construction and
engineering snags since modest output began in February,
shows "our confidence and our faith" in it. He predicted the
plant could be profitable within a year.
   The 12,500-metric-ton-a-year magnesium plant, originally
conceived as phase one of a three-phase, C$370 million
facility ultimately capable of producing 62,500 tons of
magnesium annually, is currently producing "exceptionally
high-quality product in an appropriate volume, but we are
working our way through some start-up problems," Mr. Wagner
said.
   Magnesium, a silver-white metallic element, is mainly used
as an alloy for producing aluminum.
   He didn't specify how much of the plant's capacity is
currently being used. It was previously expected to reach
commercial production levels by the current quarter. "We'll
let reality determine whether we have the capability here of
developing full-scale production," he said.
   Rumors have circulated that the resignation last month of
Alberta Natural's former president and chief executive,
Douglas Fenton, was tied to start-up problems at the
magnesium plant. Mr. Wagner wouldn't comment. Mr. Fenton
couldn't be reached.
   The plant was built as part of an ongoing diversification
strategy by Alberta Natural, whose current core businesses
include natural gas pipelines, gas processing and specialty
chemicals. The company is 49.2%-owned by Pacific Gas &amp;
Electric Co.'s gas pipeline unit, Pacific Gas Transmission
Co.
   Despite problems with its magnesium arm, Mr. Wagner said
Alberta Natural still has "a very good chance" of matching
last year's earnings, before special charges, of C$26.9
million, or C$1.26 a share. He didn't offer a specific
forecast. Final net last year was C$23.6 million, or C$1.11 a
share, on revenue of C$366.8 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Orange &amp; Rockland's
   Rate Increase Is Tied
   To Conservation Bid
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ORU
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   ALBANY, N.Y. -- The New York State Public Service
Commission approved a three-year rate increase for Orange &amp;
Rockland Utilities Inc. that requires the Pearl River,
N.Y.-based utility to offer energy-saving programs to its
180,000 customers.
   The utility, which had asked for a $22.5 million, or 5.8%,
increase, will receive an increase of about $10.5 million, or
2.7%, for the first year. But in an unusual arrangement, the
increases for the next two years will be tied to the
company's success at improving energy efficiency and
providing energy-saving programs for customers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Traditionally utilities have increased profits by selling
more power, but "this new agreement separates company profits
from sales," says Laurence DeWitt, head of the commission's
energy efficiency and environmental programs. Now "profits
will be tied to the utility's performance in helping its
customers be more energy efficient," he said.
   Under the agreement, Orange &amp; Rockland will install
energy-saving devices free of charge for many of its
residential and commercial customers beginning in January. It
also will provide rebates to customers who install various
energy-saving devices such as high-efficiency motors and
non-electrically driven cooling systems.
   "The purpose of the program is to reduce the total energy
costs of both residential and business consumers," Mr. DeWitt
said. Consumers who participate in these programs are
expected to see a reduction of 2% to 10% in their monthly
bills.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Bolivar as He Really Was
   ----
   By Lee Lescaze
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   He is a general, a poet, a legendary lover. Yet he has
become a grotesque, losing not only weight, but height, as
though he were already dead. Wracked by fever, occasionally
delirious, followed by an adoring entourage, he makes his
tormented way toward death at age 47.
   Gabriel Garcia Marquez has invented some of the magic
characters of our age. His general, however, is not only
magic, but real. Simon Bolivar fought for 20 years to wrench
an empire five times larger than Europe from Spain. He
dreamed of unity, but by 1830 as the wasted, dying Bolivar
traveled down the Magdalena River, the dream was dead. His
giant new nation had been built on sand. Or rather, on the
backs of people savagely divided among themselves. Colombia
alone had 49 civil wars in the 19th century.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Garcia Marquez's "The General in His Labyrinth"
(Knopf, 285 pages, $19.95) is a novel imagining the
little-documented final days of Bolivar. It is a horror story
like "Heart of Darkness," but with a hero at the center of
its blackness.
   By the final eight months of his life, liberator Bolivar
had become part monster as well. He had tried to pretend away
his disease for years, saying, "You can't win two races at
the same time." But it did him in just as his people finally
rejected him, and his race to build a nation was lost.
   The book is a narrower novel than Mr. Garcia Marquez's
"One Hundred Years of Solitude" or "Love in a Time of
Cholera" because it covers a relatively short period of time
and concentrates so intensely on Bolivar that the many other
characters are only figures in the general's mind. It also is
a darker work, foreshadowing death from its first sentence.
Americans unfamiliar with or uncaring about Bolivar may find
parts of it slow, but many sections share the prose rhythms
and imaginative brilliance that are Mr. Garcia Marquez's
hallmark. It is all the more powerful for being based on
fact.
   When "The General" was published in Spanish, it sparked
controversy in South America. Mr. Garcia Marquez, the maker
of modern myths, had turned myth-destroyer. This is not the
schoolbook Bolivar.
   It is troubling for South American nations to confront
these last days of the liberator Bolivar. Their statues are
of the hero erect, usually mounted, always gallant. No town
square bronze portrays an 88-pound shrinking Bolivar, at
times too weak to walk, coughing, sweating, sometimes raving.
   His power is made manifest, but so is his cruelty, his
imperiousness, his lust for women and the ugliness of his
end. Imagine the difference in the psyche of the U.S. if
George Washington had been accused of tyranny, attacked
several times by assassins, rejected by a vote of Congress
and driven in sickness to ride down the Mississippi and take
refuge on the Gulf Coast seeking passage to Europe.
   "Now we are the widows. We are the orphans, the wounded,
the pariahs of independence," Mr. Garcia Marquez's Bolivar
says. With a ferocious pride, he fights to maintain his
dignity before everyone but his devoted slave Jose Palacios.
Sometimes he cannot. "He could not master his soul," Mr.
Garcia Marquez writes of one low point. "The color of his
skin had gone from pale green to mortal yellow. He was
feverish, and the pain in his head had become eternal."
   The Magdalena, river of Mr. Garcia Marquez's boyhood
travels and of the journeys in "Love in a Time of Cholera,"
is a wonderful and mysterious territory once again. Passage
after passage shines with the brilliance of Mr. Garcia
Marquez writing about this riverine landscape.
   On his last journey, Bolivar's memory is his final
dwelling place. His mind floats back over a life of triumphs,
of battles and of women. There were 35 loves, not counting
one-night stands, he and Jose Palacios reckon. "More than
anyone else in the world," is his ritual reply when women ask
if he loves them. It is always a lie. This Bolivar loves only
his dream and himself:
   "For of all the women who passed through his life, many of
them for a few brief hours, there was none to whom he had
even suggested the idea of staying. In his urgencies of love
he was capable of changing the world in order to go to them.
Once satisfied, he was content with the illusion that he
would keep them in his memory, give himself to them from a
distance in passionate letters, send them extravagant gifts
to protect himself from oblivion, but, with an emotion that
resembled vanity more than love, he would not commit the
least part of his life to them."
   "The General in His Labyrinth" is translated by Edith
Grossman, who also translated "Love in a Time of Cholera."
The language is almost always elegant, never more so than
when Bolivar finally succumbs to the pulmonary lesion or
malaria or both (the doctors weren't sure) that has been
working so hard for so long to overcome his great will to
live.
   "He examined the room with the clairvoyance of his last
days, and for the first time he saw the truth: the final
borrowed bed, the pitiful dressing table whose clouded,
patient mirror would not reflect his image again, the chipped
porcelain washbasin with the water and towel and soap meant
for other hands, the heartless speed of the octagonal clock
racing toward the ineluctable appointment at seven minutes
past one on his final afternoon of December 17."
   ---
   Mr. Lescaze is the Journal's foreign editor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   May Department Stores Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MA WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   MAY DEPARTMENT STORES Co. (St. Louis) -- Joseph M. Melvin,
formerly senior vice president, finance, for the retailer's
May Co., California, department store division, was named
chairman of its Filene's department store division,
succeeding Carl Tooker, who took a post with another company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NovaCare Inc. Stock Offering
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   NVCR
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   VALLEY FORGE, Pa. -- NovaCare Inc. said it intends to
offer 4.5 million shares at a currently undetermined price.
   Of the shares to be sold, 2 million will be offered by the
company, and 2.5 million will be offered by holders of
certain securities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Robertson, Stephens &amp; Co. is lead manager of the offering.
   Proceeds will be used to repay debt and fund acquisitions,
the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Correction
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   In Friday's Americas column it was incorrectly stated that
AT&amp;T was negotiating with a Spanish company to buy
Argentina's phone system. The U.S. company that has been
involved in those negotiations is Bell Atlantic.
   (See: "The Americas: Argentina Tries Cosmetic Surgery on a
Sagging Economy" -- WSJ Aug. 31, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Weatherford International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WII WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
</IN>
<LP>
   WEATHERFORD INTERNATIONAL Inc. (Houston) -- Robert E.
Hendrix was named chief operating officer and executive vice
president of this energy services concern. The 44-year-old
Mr. Hendrix succeeds Eugene L. Butler, who retains the titles
of president and chief executive officer. The post of
executive vice president had been vacant. Additionally,
Charles J. Hooper, an investor and former president of
Dresser Industries Inc.'s Dresser Minerals division, was
elected a director, expanding the board to 10 from nine.
Dresser Industries, Dallas, is an energy services concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Digging In:
   Embargo's Noose Still
   Isn't Strangling Life
   In Teeming Baghdad
   ---
   Despite Rationing and Lines,
   Some Produce is Plentiful;
   Iraq Vows Self-Sufficiency
   ---
   Dr. Ali Says `Hi' to Detroit
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BAGHDAD -- If the economic noose is tightening around
Iraq, this city of four million seems determined to revel on
the gallows.
   On a sultry Saturday night, the only rumblings of war are
on the screen of the Sinbad Cinema, where an Indian battle
film is playing. Kebab sellers on the street outside the
theatre are skewering fat chunks of lamb while fruitmongers
slash open fresh watermelons. Along the Tigris River, men
promenade hand in hand, in the Arab fashion, past fish
restaurants and neon-lit nightclubs. A raucous group of
wedding revelers sweeps through the Sheraton Hotel lobby,
seemingly oblivious to nearby Western hostages.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There are bread lines, and rationing of staples such as
rice, but the shops and street souks are flush with other
goods, even some luxuries. Heaps of Chilean oranges, Canada
Dry sodas, processed cheese -- all seized from Kuwait's rich
storehouses -- tempt shoppers.
   Nor is the prospect of belt-tightening causing much alarm.
Tea-sellers still fill their tiny glasses half-full with
sugar, a product in short supply.
   "America cannot scare us with its guns and sanctions,"
says an engineer named Abdullah, playing dominoes at a
riverside teahouse. He rolls up his pant leg to reveal an
ugly cross-stitch running down his leg -- the result of a
shrapnel wound during Iraq's long war with Iran. "My friend,"
he says, returning to his game, "we know about war, we are
ready. Is America?"
   Such attitudes reflect in part Iraq's unique perception of
the current crisis. Nightly newscasts have an Iraqi bias so
profound that one is left thinking that the U.S. -- not Iraq
-- is under siege. Newspaper cartoons show camels urinating
on U.S. soldiers in the desert. Only a small elite listening
to the BBC or Voice of America appears to have any grasp of
the gravity of Iraq's situation.
   "From the ministries to the street, Iraqis are in various
dreamstates," says one Western diplomat, "they think Kuwait
is theirs forever and convincing the world of this is simply
a mop-up operation."
   At heart, Iraqi leaders seem to believe the whole crisis
will blow over. But if it doesn't, they appear braced for
mass destruction. "We're talking twilight of the gods," says
one diplomat of his conversations with Iraqi officials. "If
Iraq is attacked, the whole world burns."
   Short of such an Armageddon, diplomats here say that
severe food shortages may be the only way to turn Iraq's
muted populace against the regime of Saddam Hussein. Yet they
doubt the embargo will bite hard enough and quickly enough to
destabilize the Iraqi regime. Iraq trumpets its
self-sufficiency in newspaper reports and interviews with the
Western press. "Even if we must eat mud, we will not kneel
down to any power," says Naji al-Hadithi, Iraq's director
general of information.
   While Iraq imports three-quarters of its food, it is
enjoying a bumper crop of fruit, vegetables and grain. The
Iraqi diet already is deteriorating, but "the notion that
people here will be starved into submission is wishful
Western thinking," says a veteran diplomat.
   Over the short term, Iraq's ability to weather the crisis
depends largely on how it nurses its current stocks. It has
distinct advantages in a highly disciplined and authoritarian
society and a population inured to shortages during its long
war with Iran. The regime already has closed ice-cream
parlors and pastry shops. Top restaurants are expected to
shut soon. Bread sales are limited to three small loaves per
person, per day, and bakeries can only make coarse wholemeal
breads. On Saturday, rationing of staples such as tea and
rice was introduced. To enforce its measures, the regime has
decreed that black marketeers will be put to death.
   If the embargo holds, Iraq can only survive by reviving
its badly neglected agriculture. Currently, yields are poor
and 20% of all crops are lost through bad storage. Iraq
relies heavily on imported seeds and machinery, as well as on
Egyptian labor, which is fleeing the country. According to
official figures publicized before the crisis, Iraq has
enough rice for 70 days and sugar for only 17.
   But in a land once known as the Fertile Crescent, there is
water, sun and land in abundance. The world's largest date
producer, Iraq could press dates to make a syrup substitute
for dwindling supplies of sugar. Iraq has a population that
was predominantly rural only a generation ago. Saddam Hussein
could decree that some workers return to the land to farm
collectively, or tell urban dwellers to raise chickens. "The
Iraqis could go Vietnamese on us and rediscover their rural
roots," says the Western ambassador.
   This theory finds some support in conversations with
Iraqis. At a bread line in downtown Baghdad, one woman says
she's growing vegetables in her yard for the first time in
years. "It is more fun than changing diapers," she observes.
The old man behind her says he has been living with his son
and daughter-in-law for four years and now, at least, can
contribute to the household larder by waiting in line for
bread. In the serpentine alleys of the souk, a young
pharmacist named Tariq points to his dwindling stock of
imported goods and says that his father used to wash his hair
with camel's urine, an old Bedouin custom. "We do not need
your Johnson &amp; Johnson baby shampoo," he says.
   If the embargo continues, Iraqis may have little choice
but to return to their roots. Iraq's small industrial base is
shutting down quickly for lack of spare parts. Major capital
projects, including dams and petrochemical plants that rely
heavily on Western machinery and experts, are being
mothballed. Oil fields are closing. And even this is
difficult to do properly without foreign advice and
equipment.
   Ironically, Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait may have
been partly motivated by the desire to improve Iraq's
standard of living. Diplomats believe that the Iraqi dictator
was eager to forestall any Romanian-style uprising against
his regime, which has often been compared to that of Nicolae
Ceausescu.
   Early this year, Baghdad flooded the market with consumer
products. Moves toward privatizing the economy were stepped
up. Saddam Hussein resumed an old habit of appearing in Iraqi
homes -- TV cameras in tow -- to bestow Toyotas,
refrigerators and fistfuls of dinars on surprised and
grateful citizens. The overpowering personality cult -- so
reminiscent of Mr. Ceausescu's -- seems to have been toned
down. Longstanding strictures on contact with the outside
world were eased.
   But now that the midnight raid on Kuwait has been so
widely condemned, all evidence of openness has vanished. The
capital is once again "Moscow-on-the-Tigris," as it was
dubbed during the Iran-Iraq war. Anti-aircraft guns, removed
or left unmanned after the cease-fire with Iran, are visible
along the river's bank. Overseas travel is banned, and telex
and telephone lines have been cut or carefully controlled.
   The Arabic service of the BBC is jammed, and the airwaves
and newspapers are filled with displays of martial might and
propaganda. Iraqis have been told that the Kuwaiti royal
family is riddled with syphilis; that Israeli rabbis are
ministering to U.S. troops in Mecca and Medina, the holy
Muslim sites on the opposite side of Saudi Arabia from where
the soldiers are actually deployed; and that demonstrators
from Amman to Berkeley, Calif., support Iraq in its struggle
against American-Zionist colonial oppression.
   Asked if Iraq under any circumstances would consider
withdrawing from Kuwait, the information ministry official,
Mr. al-Hadithi replies with an unwavering no. "It has come
back to the motherland," he says of Kuwait. The two
countries' currencies and courts have been merged, and Kuwait
has already been incorporated in Iraq in official maps.
   Returning to Baghdad from his first trip to Europe in 10
years, an Iraqi intellectual confesses, "I feel like I am
going back to prison after a brief, wonderful parole."
   Perhaps over time this isolation may arouse opposition
within Saddam Hussein's ruling clique or the population at
large, but there is little cause for optimism. Baghdad's
modern sprawl of dun-colored apartments and blue-domed
mosques is so thick with informers and secret police that no
conversation is without menace. A merchant's fluent English
will suddenly falter when talk turns to politics. A Westerner
inquiring about a bread line will be told that it is actually
a queue of volunteers signing up to fight America. Most
often, any questions of a sensitive nature are parried with a
polite smile followed by silence.
   Still, there is little of the obvious and genuine venom
toward America evident in Jordan and on the Israeli-occupied
West Bank. In contrast to Palestinians, who feel deeply stung
by U.S. support for Israel, Iraqis' enmity toward the U.S.
seems abstract. Iraqis seem more befuddled than embittered by
America's action over Kuwait.
   By Arab standards, Iraq is a secular society, comfortable
with Western habits that disgust Muslim fundamentalists:
drinking, materialism, women's liberation. "Ninety-nine
percent of Iraqis despise America," insists a psychiatrist
named Ali Harchan, marching Monday in a stage-managed rally
at the American Embassy, an almost daily ritual in Baghdad.
   But as the protesters stop shaking their fists and
shouting "Down, down Bush]" Dr. Harchan begins chatting about
his affection for the "Newhart" show (prime time on Iraqi TV)
and about the beautiful blond women he met while studying in
Europe. "Please write that Ali says Hi to all his friends in
Detroit," he says before melting away into the shimmering
midday heat.
   Dr. Harchan and other Iraqis tell of panic in the days
immediately following the invasion of Kuwait. Families loaded
up cars and headed for the countryside, or frantically
hoarded food. Diplomats say that grocers and maids who had
never expressed an opinion about anything suddenly began
sharing their fears of U.S. attack.
   While this initial terror has passed, there is still
grumbling about shortages. And well-dressed diners in a
downtown restaurant unashamedly wrap up leftover bread and
slip it into their pockets before paying their bill.
   "Here we are, just finished with one war and starting
another," says an Iraqi office worker, speaking softly under
cover of a loud, humming air-conditioner. Like many Iraqis,
he has sons just recently demobilized from the Iranian front
who now are being deployed in Kuwait. "If America kills
Saddam, many people here will think the Prophet Mohammed is
alive and well in Washington," he says. Asked whom he would
prefer in power, the man says, "Who cares? Let us have the
devil. Even he would be better than this madman, Saddam
Hussein."
   The man quickly adds that his views represent a tiny
minority of Iraqis with some exposure to the West. In the
drawer of his desk are smuggled copies of Time and Newsweek,
concealed in double brown bags, as though they were
pornography. "Without this," he says, "I would be a sheep
like everyone else."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   AB Volvo's Holtback
   Resigns to Take Post
   With Swedish Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VOLVY S.SEB WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Roger Holtback, president of AB Volvo's car
division since 1984, resigned abruptly to accept a senior
executive post at Sweden's biggest bank, Skandinaviska
Enskilda Banken.
   The move comes less than a week after Volvo reported
plunging pretax profit for the third consecutive quarter and
announced plans to slash roughly 15% of the jobs at its
Swedish car plants by the end of next year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said the departure of Mr. Holtback, 45 years old,
reflected a top managment reorganization last year. At that
time, Volvo tapped Stockholm banker Christer Zetterberg as
its new chief operating officer and heir apparent to longtime
chairman and chief executive officer Pehr Gyllenhammar.
   The choice of Mr. Zetterberg was a big surprise as Mr.
Gyllenhammar previously pledged his successor would be chosen
from inside the company. Mr. Holtback was considered a
leading contender for the post.
   Other industry analysts suggested that the prospects of
diminished autonomy for Volvo's car division under its
planned strategic alliance with France's Renault probably
hastened Mr. Holtback's exit. "It won't be exactly a junior
partnership. But freedom of maneuver for Volvo on the car
side will be much more constrained under the Renault
alliance," said John Lawson, a London-based auto analyst for
Nomura Securities Co.
   Volvo said Lennart Jeansson, an executive vice president
heading group financial operations, will succeed Mr.
Holtback. Mr. Jeansson, 49, is a 24-year Volvo veteran who
has spent much of his career at the car division. Most
recently, he was the division's vice president for purchasing
and materials from 1983 to 1986, before assuming control of
group financial operations.
   Mr. Jeansson also had strong backing within the company in
last year's contest for the chief operating officer post. He
has been a member of Volvo's executive committee since 1986.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- First Union Corp.:
   Banking Company to Sell
   100 Offices for $116 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FTU PBI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SOUTHERN U.S. BANKS (BAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   First Union Corp. said it will sell 100 of its bank
offices for about $116 million.
   The Charlotte, N.C., banking company said the offices --
in North Carolina, Georgia and Florida -- will be sold to an
affiliate of Pitney Bowes Credit Corp., a unit of Pitney
Bowes Inc. in Stamford, Conn. First Union said it will lease
back the branches under a 20-year agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   First Union, which operates 779 bank offices in the
Southeast, said the sale is expected to generate a gain of
about $40 million, which will be recognized over the 20-year
lease. In 1991, the company said, the sale will translate
into net income of about two cents a share. In 1989, First
Union earned $256.2 million, or $2.40 a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Purchase of Big Columbia S&amp;L Portfolio
   Might Be Scrapped if Economy Worsens
   ----
   By Robert Sherbin
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   CSV H.HUW H.CKH
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- The Canadian and Hong Kong parties that
agreed last month to buy Columbia Savings &amp; Loan
Association's $3 billion junk-bond portfolio may back out of
the deal if the U.S. economy deteriorates further.
   In an interview, a top official connected with the
purchase said the prospective buyers, three groups controlled
by Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing and Gordon Investment
Corp., a Toronto merchant bank, became concerned about the
transaction when the Persian Gulf crisis erupted.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We are monitoring the situation very closely," said
Richard Li, son of the tycoon and managing director of the
corporate fund management committee of Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.
"We are aware of our options and would exploit our options if
necessary."
   Mr. Li said his group and Gordon Investment have until
Oct. 2 to decide whether to go through with the purchase of
the portfolio from the Beverly Hills, Calif., thrift. If the
decision were made today, he said, they would go through with
the deal. But he said they would back out if it appeared the
U.S. economy would weaken to the point where the bond issuers
couldn't meet their obligations.
   The groups wouldn't face any penalty if they were to scrap
the agreement before the deadline, Mr. Li added.
   Late last month, the Li group said it would buy half of
Columbia's portfolio of junk bonds, believed to be largest
held by any U.S. savings and loan association, by taking a
50% stake in a partnership owned by Gordon Investment, which
had just agreed to acquire the portfolio. Hutchison, a major
local conglomerate, and sister company Cheung Kong (Holdings)
Ltd., a real estate group, each agreed to take 20% interests
in the venture, with a company controlled by the elder Li
taking the remaining 10%.
   Together with Gordon Investment, the Li group agreed to
pay $300 million to acquire the portfolio and finance the
remaining 90% on a non-recourse basis at 10.5% interest. That
means that the partnership can drop the portfolio if its
losses exceed the down payment and Columbia would have to
take the portfolio back.
   Mr. Li said the groups have retained a number of
U.S.-based investment and legal advisers to help determine
whether they should proceed with the transaction, but
declined to identify them. He also wouldn't say whether it
was possible to modify the agreement as an alternative to
pulling out altogether.
   The 23-year-old executive said the parties are chiefly
interested in determining whether the economic slowdown,
which has been aggravated by soaring oil prices, would
prevent the 176 issuers from meeting their debt payments,
which carry yields ranging between 14% and 18%.
   "It really depends on the general economic outlook and how
different industries would be affected," he said. "Based on
today's outlook, it would be a go, but a lot can happen in
the next 30 days."
   As well as pursuing the junk-bond portfolio for its
investment potential, Mr. Li said the Hong Kong partners are
interested in using it to gain expertise on the U.S. market
as part of their goal to diversify its investments beyond
Hong Kong.
   The possiblity that the deal could fall through didn't
greatly surprise several local securities analysts.
   John Mulcahy, research director at Peregrine Brokerage
Ltd., said the prospect of high inflation and slow growth in
the U.S. would make it difficult for companies with
high-yielding bonds to make good on them. He also said it
wouldn't be much of a loss for the Li companies if the deal
fell through.
   "I'd heave a sigh of relief, quite frankly," Mr. Mulcahy
said. "There (are) different ways to acquire an education
about the U.S. than this. There are high risks associated
with this investment, and junk bonds aren't something one
would invest in a Hong Kong conglomerate for."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Roche and Genentech
   To Divest Themselves
   Of Projects to Merge
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GNE Z.ROC Z.HR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, Calif. -- The Federal Trade
Commission ordered Roche Holding Ltd. and Genentech Inc. to
divest themselves of two tiny development projects. The
ruling paves the way for Roche, a Swiss-based pharmaceutical
concern, to gain control of Genentech, a biotechnology
company, on or about Sept. 7.
   A spokesman said the two companies were pleased with the
FTC ruling. "We think the restrictions required . . . are
well worth being able to complete the transaction in a timely
manner," he said, adding that neither of the two units to be
divested currently produces any revenue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the terms of the consent decree, San Francisco-based
Genentech must sell its half-stake in GLC Associates, a
Cleveland, Ohio, partnership, which has a unit based here
that produces vitamin C. Roche must sell its patents and
research involving a "releasing factor" for human growth
hormones.
   The sales aren't likely to have much impact on either
concern. Roche already is a major supplier of vitamin C, and
the company's growth hormone project apparently is some years
from reaping products, a spokesman said.
   In February, Roche stunned the U.S. biotechnology industry
by announcing a takeover of Genentech, the nation's biggest
biotechnology firm. Initially, the company will own 60% of
Genentech and will hold two of the 13 seats on the board. But
in the next five years, Roche has the right to buy the rest
of Genentech at $38 to $60 a share.
   While the FTC can't rescind its approval of Genentech's
merger with Roche, the agency will accept public comment on
its ruling for the next 60 days before deciding whether to
make the ruling final.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   Soft Purchasers' Index Is Expected Today
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Iraqi invaders begin making inroads into
the indicators in what's likely to be a slack August
purchasing managers' index due out today. But important jobs
data first face a different enemy: downward revisions.
   The National Association of Purchasing Management's index
is expected to hover around 47.4%, the same level as in July,
according to MMS International Inc., a unit of McGraw-Hill
Inc., New York. But the reading remains well below 50%,
indicating a sliding economy. A reading above 50% indicates
an expanding economy. In June, the index stood at 51.1%.
August's unemployment rate, due out Friday, is also expected
to be flat following the previous month's deepening to 5.5%.
Furthermore, benchmark revisions are expected to slice
further into the softening payroll head count. The week's
only other major indicator is construction spending, also due
out today and also likely to remain soft.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The numbers are going to be weak," said Donald H.
Straszheim, Merrill Lynch's chief economist, who thinks the
purchasers' index may slip a bit further. "All this invasion
does is create uncertainty and that causes a lot of
businessmen to freeze in their tracks."
   Ironically, the jump in oil prices may be a partly
positive influence on the August index by pushing up the
price component. And, the inventory segment may be plumped by
buyers trying to hedge against rising costs for fuel and
petrochemical-based supplies.
   Some mixed signals came Friday from two smaller, regional
pruchasing managers' indexes: Detroit and Chicago. The August
Chicago index rose nearly one percentage point to 49.2%. But
the Detroit index fell sharply to 44.1% from 52.8% in July --
the largest one-month drop since November 1987, right after
the October stock-market plummet. Economists said the
diversified Chicago economy probably helped the Windy City
index hold up better than the auto-dependent Detroit area.
The Detroit purchasers cited the Mideast conflict as a source
of pessimism but noted that weakness in the auto industry was
a key factor.
   "The purchasers' index tells the continuing story of the
end of the auto `miniboom,'" said Gary Ciminero, chief
economist at Fleet/Norstar Financial Group, Providence, R.I.
He and others believe that rising oil prices only add to the
mounting economic reasons why consumers aren't likely to rush
out to buy new cars, regardless of any incentives. He expects
auto makers to cut September and October production levels
because of the oil crisis.
   But Mr. Ciminero believes that the government's benchmark
revisions to important past employment data are potentially
far more negative than whatever the national purchasers'
index discloses. "We can throw out all these jigs and jags in
monthly employment numbers. They were far weaker than we
thought," he says.
   Downward adjustments in hourly wages may be particularly
significant, said Mr. Ciminero. Lower wage levels might ease
concerns over wage-push inflation and explain "why consumers
are so strapped."
   David Wyss, chief financial economist at DRI/McGraw Hill,
agrees that the jobs report will be negative. "We're looking
for a weak August following a massive drop in July," he said.
The consensus calls for an increase of only 75,000 non-farm
jobs in August -- excluding layoffs of temporary census
workers. Including the layoffs, nonfarm payrolls in August
fell by 33,000 jobs, according to the consensus view.
   Rising oil prices, coupled with the downturn in
construction, prompted economists at Morgan Guaranty Trust
Co. to predict an imminent recession. Morgan said in a
statement Friday that the U.S. economy appears likely to move
into recession over the next few months.
   ---
                     Closely Watched Reports
                                                                                                       

      Statistics Released in the Week Ended Aug. 31
                                                                                                       

                                                CHANGE
                                           (from prior
                               TOTAL       period)
                                                                                                       

 Money supply
                                                                                                       

   M1 -- Week ended
   Aug. 20 (in billions)        $817.6           +$2.7
                                                                                                       

   M2 -- Week ended
   Aug. 20 (in billions)      $3,306.4           +$6.5
                                                                                                       

   M3 -- Week ended
   Aug. 20 (in billions)      $4,091.0           +$5.1
                                                                                                       

 Manufacturers' orders
 July, (in billions)           $240.35           +1.6%
                                                                                                       

 New jobless claims
 week ended Aug. 18            382,000           +4.4%
                                                                                                       


 July, change in
 percentage points                4.9%          unchg.
                                                                                                       

 Personal consumption
 July, annual rate
 (in trillions)                 $3.667           +0.5%
                                                                                                       

 New homes sold
 July, annual rate             548,000           -2.3%
                                                                                                       

 Manufacturers' shipment
 July, (in billions)           $237.48           -0.8%
                                                                                                       

 Personal income
 July, annual rate
 (in trillions)                 $4.672           +0.6%
                                                                                                       

 Leading indicators
 July, index                     146.1           unchg.
                                                                                                       

 Farm prices
 August, index                     150           -1.3%
                                                                                                       

             Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

 Unemployment rate
 (Fri.) August
                                                                                                       

 Purchasing managers' index
 (Tues.) August
                                                                                                       

 New car sales
 (Wed.) Late August
                                                                                                       

 Money supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

 New jobless claims (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

 Consumer credit
 (Fri.) July
                                                                                                       

 Payroll, employment
 (Fri.) August
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Steel Ingot Output
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian steel production totaled 170,609 metric
tons in the week ended last Saturday, up 13% from 151,255
tons in the preceding week but down 40% from 286,110 tons a
year earlier, Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said. A
metric ton is equal to about 2,204.6 pounds.
   For this year through last Saturday, production fell 13%
to 8,944,308 metric tons from 10,316,195 tons a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Computer &amp; Communications
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CCTC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN DIEGO -- Computer &amp; Communications Technology Corp.
said shareholders overwhelmingly approved its merger with
closely held Sunward Technologies.
   Everett Bahre, chairman, president and chief executive
officer of Computer &amp; Communications, said 65% of the
company's shares were represented in the voting. Some 99% of
those shares were cast in favor of giving Sunward holders 55%
majority control of Computer &amp; Communications.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To accomplish that, Computer &amp; Communications will issue
14.5 million new shares to Sunward holders. However, the
merged company will adopt the Sunward name. Both companies
make magnetic recording heads for computer disk drives and
are based in San Diego.
   Greg Reyes was elected chairman and chief executive
officer of the new Sunward Technologies. Mr. Reyes said the
new firm had completed the private sale of preferred stock
and warrants to purchase about 3.8 million Sunward shares for
an aggregate purchase price of $5 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   So What Else is New?
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Michael Gartner (Viewpoint, op-ed page, Aug. 9) made two
points in his article on the cost of the S&amp;L bailout: (1)
There is injustice in the world, and (2) the S&amp;L bailout is
projected to cost a whole lot of money. I anxiously await his
sequel column where he outlines his just and inexpensive
solution.
   David Kreutzer
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Director
   International Business Program
   James Madison University
   Harrisonburg, Va.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- On Sports:
   Billie Jean and Jennifer: God Bless the Child
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- Since last year's World Series I have
refrained from making jocular references to earthquakes, but
I could have sworn the stadium wobbled a bit here Friday when
Linda Ferrando, the 82nd-ranked women's tennis player,
defeated No. 3 Monica Seles in a third-round match at the
U.S. Open. Women's tennis in recent years has been a decorous
affair, with the common folks giving their betters their due,
and then some.
   At the least, Ferrando beating Seles was comparable to
Kansas State beating Nebraska at football, and the upset
remained an exception here. Thirteen of the 16 seeded ladies
advanced in stately fashion to the fourth round, including
numbers 1,2,4,5,6,7,8 and 9.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To one observer, however, the match merely affirmed what
she has been saying for years. "We've got lots of girls who
can really play -- it's a misconception that a few dominate,"
declared Billie Jean King.
   Well, okay. I guess that shows one needn't be right about
everything to be worth listening to, and King certainly is.
If anyone can speak authoritatively about women's tennis, she
can.
   For starters, she was quite a player, the winner of 39
Grand Slam singles and doubles titles over a 21-year span
that ended in 1981. For seconds, she was an organizer while
still playing, and in a few weeks will mark the 20th
anniversary of the day that she and a few other hardy females
ceased being the caboose on the tennis train and launched
their own tour, beginning with a tournament in Houston.
   She continues as a honcho in the sport, serving as
commissioner of a professional team tennis league that
survives if not prospers, and a related, grassroots
organization that has brought the joy of the game to
thousands. She's a TV commentator, employed at the Open by
the USA cable network. She helped coach Martina Navratilova
to an unprecedented ninth Wimbledon singles title a couple
months back. When Life magazine recently took it upon itself
to choose the 100 "most influential" Americans of this
century, she was one of four athletes to make the list, along
with Muhammad Ali, Jackie Robinson and Babe Ruth.
   Most impressively, she was, perhaps, the only person ever
to singlehandedly launch a popular boom in her sport. That
happened on Sept. 20, 1973, when her nationally televised
trouncing of Bobby Riggs, a sixty-something male ex-champ,
loosed millions of new racquet wavers onto the courts of an
unprepared land.
   "Ah, the boom -- we really messed that up, didn't we?"
sighs King, now 46 years old, thinking back to tennis's
short-lived heyday. "We finally got the people out, and we
didn't know what to do with them. Instead of trying to teach
them the game, and find ways they could enjoy it at any
level, the clubs tried to sell them clothes.
   "I think if we'd had our team-tennis recreational leagues
then, it might have turned out differently. The team format
gets people involved in ways that regular tournaments don't,
and we use divisions so that people can compete against their
peers. We run events where the 20 best players can't play,
and you should see the fun everyone has] People don't care if
they're double-faulting as long as the other guy does it once
in awhile, too."
   King says she promotes tennis partly in the name of
physical fitness. "It's not boring, like jogging or aerobics,
so once people get involved in it, they stay," she asserts.
But the upper reaches of the game still beckon, and, thus,
she joined the skilled but emotionally fragile Navratilova,
33, a fourth-round victim to ninth-seeded Manuela
Maleeva-Fragniere here Sunday, as a sort of ego coach.
   "Martina and I used to play doubles together, and a couple
years ago she came to me when she was getting frustrated
about her game and not being able to beat Steffi {Graf, the
new No. 1}," King says. "I asked her why, with all she'd
accomplished, she was still playing at all, and she shrugged.
I told her that unless she had a reason, maybe she should
quit, and that she'd better confront herself about it.
   "I told her that once she set her own goals, her other
coach, Craig Kardon, and I could help her reach them, but
that we couldn't supply her with motivation. She thought
things out, and decided she wanted to win a ninth Wimbledon
and a Virginia Slims championship in November. Those have
been her goals this year."
   King smiles and adds: "Martina's taking things one at a
time now, and doing better -- as long as we take precautions
like clipping out any stories about her in the newspapers
before we let her read them."
   King keeps her hand in with her game's younger set, too;
when Jennifer Capriati, the 14-year-old marvel, made her pro
debut at a Florida tournament last spring, Billie Jean was
there to team with her in the doubles. She found in the
strapping youngster a kindred soul.
   "Jennifer didn't stop talking the whole time we played;
she's just like me when I was a kid," King chuckles. "She's
got a great game -- wonderful, strong ground strokes -- and a
marvelous attitude. This kid just loves tennis. Anybody who
thinks her parents are pushing her to play are crazy. She's
pulling harder than anybody could push."
   I noted that, during a telecast last week, King
consistently referred to Capriati as a "child." She nodded.
"I got some calls on that from people who thought I was
saying it disapprovingly, trying to make the point that
Jennifer shouldn't be playing as a pro so young. That
couldn't be further from the truth.
   "I guess, knowing Jennifer, I'm impressed with the
childlike enthusiasm she brings to tennis. She's like we all
should be when we play -- totally into it. We're never more
like children than when we're playing games, you know. Maybe
that's why some of us try to stay around them as long as we
can."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shearson Is Indicted
   In Ohio Case Alleging
   Broker Wrongdoing
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   COLUMBUS, Ohio -- In a case alleging stockbroker
wrongdoing before the 1987 stock-market crash, a state grand
jury issued 42 indictments each against Shearson Lehman
Brothers Inc., a former top Shearson broker in Cleveland and
the broker's former branch manager.
   The indictments charge the broker, Sheldon Strauss, with
fraud and false representation in the sale of securities. The
state said Mr. Strauss's clients suffered extensive losses in
the 1987 crash because of "heavily margined, speculative and
unauthorized investments" he made "with the full knowledge of
his supervisors at Shearson Lehman."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The former branch manager, Stephen Weinberg, and Shearson
were also named in the indictments for their alleged
complicity in Mr. Strauss's actions, the state said.
   Shearson, a New York-based brokerage concern, has already
settled more than $4.9 million of claims with Mr. Strauss's
former clients, the state said.
   A spokesman for Shearson, a unit of New York-based
American Express Co., said allegations that Shearson had
complicity are "totally without merit," even though the
alleged activity "didn't serve the best interest" of its
clients.
   The spokesman said the Messrs. Strauss and Weinberg no
longer work for Shearson -- Shearson dismissed Mr. Strauss in
late 1987 and Mr. Weinberg resigned in early 1988 -- and
noted that the alleged activity occured nearly three years
ago.
   In magazine and newspaper interviews over the past several
months, Mr. Strauss has acknowledged wiping out himself and
his clients in the 1987 stock crash, but he said Shearson is
as much to blame as him. He has said he wanted to "devote
whatever meager resources I have" to help investors sue their
brokerage firms in cases of improper sales techniques.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Apex Oil Emerges
   From Chapter 11
   As Leaner Concern
</HL>
<DATE>
09/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS, Mo. -- Apex Oil Co. emerged from Chapter 11
bankruptcy proceedings, significantly smaller than when it
filed for protection from creditors on Christmas Eve, 1987.
   The closely held concern grew from a tiny oil-trading and
transportation operation to become, partly through its highly
leveraged 1981 acquisition of Clark Oil &amp; Refining Co., a
petroleum conglomerate with annual revenue of about $13
billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But after the company had big losses in oil futures
trading, and the value of its oil inventory tumbled because
of the petroleum market's mid-decade slump, Apex's lenders
pulled the plug on vital loan agreements.
   Apex cleared its debts with secured lenders in full in
1988, by selling its Clark Oil unit to a partnership composed
of Horsham Corp., Toronto, and Apex owners Paul A. Novelly
and Samuel R. Goldstein.
   Under the court-approved reorganization, Messrs. Goldstein
and Novelly will together lend $15 million to Apex. Banque
Indosuez of Geneva and Banque Paribas of New York each loaned
Apex $15 million in the reorganization.
   Apex's unsecured holders will receive as much as $20
million in cash, $20 million in seven-year notes secured by
Apex assets to be sold over two years, and $20 million in
10-year notes secured by a portion of anticipated profits
from Clark Oil Trading Co. Clark Oil Trading, owned by
Messrs. Novelly &amp; Goldstein, isn't associated with the bigger
Clark Oil &amp; Refining unit that was sold, nor did it ever come
under Chapter 11 protection.
   The settlement with unsecured debtholders represents
payment of 64 cents to 86 cents on the dollar.
   Apex, which said it operated profitably throughout the
Chapter 11 period, now plans to focus on its oil trading, oil
terminal and shipping operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900904-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900904-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   OIL PRICES ROSE on renewed worry that the Mideast crisis
might not be resolved soon enough to prevent tight supplies.
The price of refined petroleum rose faster than that of
crude. Gasoline futures gained 4.35 cents a gallon, while
crude jumped 85 cents a barrel to $26.77.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stock and bond prices sank, driven down by oil's rebound.
The Dow Jones industrials fell 39.11 points in thin trading
to 2593.32, as program trading helped trigger a late
sell-off. Long-term Treasury's lost about half a point. The
dollar strengthened.
   ---
   Tokyo stocks rose sharply as investors took in stride an
increase in the Bank of Japan's discount rate. The Nikkei
jumped 775.17 points, or 3.1%, on Thursday and gained a
further 244.49 points early Friday.
                                                                                                       

   Japan's discount-rate boost could sour the world economy
by forcing higher rates elsewhere, analysts say.
   ---
   Stock fund sales collapsed in August, posting their worst
month since the 1987 crash, as many investors shifted into
money market funds.
   ---
   Airline reservation systems ground into gridlock Wednesday
as a flood of callers tried to book cheap fares before the
prices went up.
   ---
   Mideast investors moved as much as $8 billion in capital
to the West after Iraq invaded Kuwait. Big U.S. banks are the
main beneficiaries.
   ---
   The number of S&amp;Ls described by regulators as
well-capitalized and profitable fell 7% in the first quarter.
   ---
   Hanson PLC plans to cut its stake in Newmont Mining to as
low as 26% from 49% through a public offering of shares in
the U.S. gold-mining firm.
   ---
   Lockheed shareholder Harold Simmons continues to press for
an increased stake in the company despite losing a proxy
battle this year.
   ---
   Factory orders rose 1.6% in July, nearly making up for a
1.9% drop in June. Aircraft orders were particularly strong,
while autos were weak.
   ---
   The Canadian and Hong Kong groups who agreed last month to
buy Columbia S&amp;L's $3 billion junk-bond portfolio may back
out of the deal if the U.S. economy worsens further.
   ---
   Campeau's Federated unit is challenging $586.8 million in
IRS claims. Separately, National Bank of Canada is taking a
$70.1 million provision against loans to Robert Campeau.
   ---
   Four big California utilities will be able to profit from
savings generated by their conservation efforts under a plan
approved by state regulators.
   ---
   The Labor Department launched a program to reduce arm and
wrist injuries and other disorders that are common in
repeated-motion jobs.
   ---
   Korean officials proposed legislation aimed at reversing
the Seoul stock market's 16-month slide. But prices sank on
the announcement.
   ---
   Gannett named Gary L. Watson, formerly head of the
community newspapers division, to run the firm's newly
consolidated newspaper group.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 120,890,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2593.32, off 39.11; transportation 901.26, off 9.87;
utilities 193.72, off 1.89.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Brothers Treasury index 3336.98,
off 10.19.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.23, up 0.17; spot
index 130.79, up 0.09.
   Dollar: 144.35 yen, up 0.75; 1.5640 marks, up 0.0045.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
