<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Edley of United Negro College Fund
   To Retire After 17 Years in Top Posts
   ----
   By Leon E. Wynter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   Christopher F. Edley, a Harvard trained lawyer who led the
United Negro College Fund to become one of the nation's most
successful black charities, will retire after 17 years as
president and chief executive officer, the college fund said.
   Mr. Edley, 62 years old, cited a desire to rest and some
health concerns as the reasons for his move. The college fund
began a quiet national search for Mr. Edley's successor about
two months ago, according to college fund chairman Joe
Williams, who is chairman and chief executive officer of
Warner Lambert Corp. Mr. Williams said the college fund is
looking for a successor with "stature in the black community,
stature in the corporate community, someone who can interface
with the White House, someone who is dedicated to his race."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The New York-based college fund, which supports 41 private
black colleges and universities, raised about $9.5 million in
revenue annually when Mr. Edley took over in 1973. For the
year ended March 30, the fund took in $48.5 million. Mr.
Williams said Mr. Edley was also instrumental in securing a
recent $50 million donation from publisher and philanthropist
Walter H. Annenberg, the largest single donation in the
fund's history.
   Mr. Edley said the fund was "like a mom and pop kind of
store that was getting bigger," when he came. "People were so
busy waiting on customers that no strategic thoughts were
being given." The year before Mr. Edley's arrival, the fund
began its first national advertising campaign with the
slogan, "A Mind is a Terrible Thing to Waste." The campaign
and slogan, among the most successful in the history of
public service advertising, gave the fund a national
visibility previously unknown for a black charity.
   But, Mr. Edley said, "People do not give money just
because they see your ad on TV. Advertising helps soften
people up." Mr. Edley said he had to focus the fund on
creating a wide range of opportunities for people to actually
give money after seeing an ad. Among the most successful of
these efforts is an annual telethon and other special events
closely associated with sports and entertainment celebrities.
   The award-winning college fund ads have become the most
requested of all public service spots handled by the
Advertising Council, a nonprofit organization that produces
and distributes such advertising using member advertising
agencies. Cathy Mitchell, who handles the fund's campaign for
the Advertising Council, said the ads succeed in part because
they convey the basic appeal of the college fund's mission.
   "I think that Chris {Edley} is quite a leader. He's
directly involved with the advertising and he knows his
organization. He knows his market and what he wants to
convey," Ms. Mitchell said.
   Mr. Edley is a former Philadelphia prosecutor who also
served as counsel to what is now the federal Housing and
Urban Development Department. He joined the college fund
after a 10-year stint with the Ford Foundation. "Really, all
my professional life has been heavily laden with the things
that would advance the minority cause," Mr. Edley said. His
son, Christopher Edley Jr., is a professor of law at Harvard
and was a principal adviser to Massachusetts Gov. Michael
Dukakis in his presidential bid.
   The college fund, founded in 1944, has gained broad
recognition in the market of sympathetic middle-class givers,
which is about 60% white and 40% black, according to Ms.
Mitchell. And the fund can point to a 13% increase in
enrollment since 1986 at the four-year schools it supports.
The 1988 gift of $20 million to Spelman College in Atlanta by
entertainer Bill Cosby, the largest individual donation to a
black college in history, heralded the next major focus for
the college fund, Mr. Edley says: hitting up black
millionaires.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Blinder Robinson Has
   Assets That Exceed
   Liabilities, Filing Says
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ENTI
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   ENGLEWOOD, Colo. -- The brokerage that penny-stock king
Meyer Blinder once boasted would be bigger than Merrill
Lynch, Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc. listed $17.9 million in
assets and $13.4 million in debts in its Chapter 11
bankruptcy-law petition filed in Denver Monday.
   Although the brokerage claims more assets than debts, the
company couldn't raise enough cash to meet immediate needs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Blinder, Robinson &amp; Co., a unit of Intercontinental
Enterprises Inc., listed office-building leases and lawsuit
judgments as its principal unsecured debts. Even in its
demise, the Blinder Robinson was controversial. "It's evident
that the filing is a maneuver to default on a $5.8 million
judgment I have against the firm," said Denver attorney Steve
A. Miller. "I intend to pursue this."
   Mr. Miller's client, Donald L. Walford, won the judgment
in a malicious prosecution suit against the firm, which
disputes the claim.
   In filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Blinder Robinson said it held for customers $70 million in
securities and $4.8 million in cash, and had 250,000
accounts. Blinder Robinson said it ceased securities
transactions before it filed.
   Blinder also said it expected to transfer its accounts to
another brokerage. The company had not disclosed the identity
of the brokerage and did not return repeated telephone calls.
The Securities Investor Protection Corp. insures the accounts
to a maximum $100,000 in cash and $500,000 in cash and
securities. A SIPC attorney said the insurance firm was
"gathering information."
   Operating problems were the immediate threat to Blinder
Robinson. From its peak of 1,800 salesmen in offices around
the world, the brokerage had dwindled to 43 offices and
perhaps 300 salesmen. Its parent reported losses of $553,000
in the quarter ended April 27 on revenue of $9.5 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Senate Votes to Ban
   Forming of PACs
   By Foreign Firms
   ----
   By Jill Abramson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate approved an amendment to the
campaign-financing bill that would prohibit foreign-owned
companies in the U.S. from forming political action
committees.
   The amendment, sponsored by Sen. Lloyd Bentsen (D.,
Texas), a critic of increasing foreign investment and
influence in this country, would outlaw PACs operated by
companies that are more than 50% foreign-owned. It was
approved by a vote of 73-27 during the Senate's second full
day of debate on legislation to overhaul the financing of
federal elections.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Senate Democrats and Republicans have both embraced a
total ban on PACs, but are worried that such a stringent step
might not withstand constitutional challenge. The Bentsen
amendment would apply only if such an outright ban were ruled
unconstitutional.
   Federal law prohibits foreign nationals and corporations
from directly contributing money to U.S. political
candidates. Since 1978, through a series of advisory
opinions, the Federal Election Commission has said that as
long as a company is incorporated in the U.S, it isn't a
foreign entity and may sponsor a PAC if it follows certain
rules.
   In June, however, the commission reversed course and voted
to open a rule-making proceeding to prohibit PAC sponsorship
by U.S. corporations owned or controlled by foreign
interests. That could lead to regulations that would be
almost identical to the amendment passed by the Senate. A
similar amendment will probably be introduced when the House
takes up campaign-finance legislation later this week.
   Sen. Bentsen said his amendment would "limit what has been
a rapidly growing source of foreign influence on domestic
American politics." He cited a recent study done for his
office by the Congressional Research Service that showed PACs
of companies with significant foreign ownership gave $2.8
million to federal candidates in the 1987-88 election cycle,
representing 5% of the total given by all corporate PACs.
   Opponents of the amendment said it discriminated against
U.S. citizens who happen to work for companies that are
acquired by foreign conglomerates. "The effect will be to
create two classes of Americans," warned Sen. Mitch McConnell
(R. Ky).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Apparel Analysts Say the Troubled Industry
   Still Offers Very Few Ready-to-Wear Issues
   ----
   By Teri Agins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   WMT MA CBR LES FTL HMX VFC LIZC
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   When will apparel makers start to stitch up their frayed
stock prices?
   Wall Street isn't hovering around the sewing machines in
anticipation. A number of analysts say that all but a few of
the battered apparel and textile stocks face a
longer-than-expected turnaround in a tough retailing climate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It is not business as usual -- and bottom-fishing can be
dangerous, so our advice is to be very selective," warns
Deborah Bronston, an apparel-industry analyst at
Prudential-Bache Securities.
   Apparel companies have seen their inventories mount up, as
retail sales have only picked up modestly so this year.
"Overall, apparel sales have been slow, and I don't see any
sign of any immediate improvement," says Robert Buchanan, a
retail analyst at Alex. Brown &amp; Sons.
   But what's giving apparel makers major headaches these
days are the sweeping changes taking place at the big retail
chains.
   From Wal-Mart to May Department Stores, retailers have
been sharply cutting the numbers of suppliers they use. The
retailers' big objective: to keep on top of their inventories
by selecting powerful suppliers with whom they share
computerized sales information.
   Even the lucky suppliers that make the cut have a harder
time. Stores have stopped stocking up on "commodity" goods
that don't tend to be fashion-sensitive, such as towels,
basic jeans and cosmetics. Increasingly, they order them on
short notice, causing manufacturers to be stuck with bigger
inventory backlogs and less predictable earnings growth, says
Prudential's Ms. Bronston.
   This new order is taking its toll on the publicly traded
apparel and textile stocks. Apparel companies won't thrive
until they get into the swing of a new way of doing business,
which "requires the apparel maker -- instead of the retailer
-- to assume more of the cost of caring for the inventories,"
says Jeffrey Ubben, an investment analyst at Fidelity
Investments. At Fidelity, the giant mutual-fund company,
holdings include Crystal Brands, Leslie Fay and Fruit of the
Loom.
   Among the stocks likely to be the slow to rebound,
analysts say, are Hartmarx, which has been stymied by the
long slump in men's tailored clothing, and VF Corp., with
more than half of its production in the stagnant jeans-wear
business.
   The apparel companies will weigh in with a mixed
performance in 1990, analysts say. According to Ms.
Bronston's estimates, results will range from a 50% drop in
earnings at Hartmarx to a 45% increase at Fruit of the Loom,
with an average gain somewhere around 6%.
   The industry is sharply split between two camps. "Today
you will find a bigger disparity between those companies who
are doing well and those who aren't," says Elizabeth
Armstrong at Prescott, Ball and Turben.
   So what's an investor to do?
   Most analysts prefer to stick with apparel companies that
have popular brand names and that also offer extensive
product lines. That's because stores tend to group these
goods together, seeking to attract customer with large
boutique-style displays.
   Analysts continue to tout Liz Claiborne, which already
blankets the women's sportswear floor and has expanded into
menswear, cosmetics, shoes and jewelry.
   The stock is now trading at 29 1/2 or about 14 times
earnings, and "still has room for growth," says Josie
Esquivel of Shearson Lehman Hutton. Ms. Esquivel believes the
stock "has the potential to be a $38 stock" but has been hurt
by recent unloading of the company's stock by several of its
top executives.
   Fidelity's Mr. Ubben is among those who champion Leslie
Fay. The company, he says, has reinvigorated the typically
dowdy area of moderately priced women's wear and is "shipping
every three weeks, which is just what the stores want."
   He estimates that Leslie Fay occupies only one-fourth as
much department-store floor space as Liz Claiborne, and
trades at a lower multiple. "So the growth opportunity, in
terms of taking up more floor space, is much more than Liz,"
he says.
   Acquisition-minded Crystal Brands is another favorite of
Wall Street's bargain-hunters. The company has expanded its
stable of brands in recent years by acquiring well-known
jewelry and menswear firms. Crystal Brands also is gaining
momentum with its Evan Picone brand, as more stores add the
line to give women an alternative to the ubiquitous Liz
Claiborne.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Mutant Ninja Turtles May Be Overexposed
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   PEP U.GME WNEWS OMC
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles have spent most of this
year starring in Burger King's ad campaign. But don't be
surprised when they show up instead in ads for rival Pizza
Hut.
   The pizza chain is expected to announce today a massive
promotional tie-in with a 40-city Mutant Ninja Turtles rock
concert tour, kicking off next month at Radio City Music Hall
in New York. Even though Burger King has been promoting the
crime-fighting turtles all year with toy giveaways at its
restaurants, Pizza Hut insists it isn't settling for sloppy
seconds. It's betting a small fortune that kids won't think
so, either: It's pumping $20 million into the September
rock-concert launch alone.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The tie-in is just the latest of hundreds of products and
promotions spawned by the turtles, in a licensing blitz that
seems sure to end in burn-out, sending the turtles the way of
Batman and the Pet Rock. Turtle products are multiplying so
fast that some marketing experts believe the turtles are on
their way out already.
   "The minute you overexpose a character, you kill it. And
once you kill it, it will never come back," says Al Ries, a
marketing consultant with Trout &amp; Ries in Greenwich, Conn.
"The owners of the Ninja Turtles are killing their pets by
overexposing them," he says.
   Mr. Ries contends it's already too late for Pizza Hut and
others to jump on the turtle bandwagon. "I think very much
this is the downside of the Ninja Turtle fad. The younger the
audience, the faster the fads come and go," he says, adding
that "whether or not it pays off for Pizza Hut at this late
stage of the fad, I doubt it."
   Certainly, the signs of overkill are present and accounted
for. About 130 licensees have already flooded the country
with more than 500 different Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle
products. Aside from every imaginable souvenir and T-shirt,
the turtles are promoting food brands from Light 'n Lively
yogurt to Thomas's English Muffins. Then there are Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles vanilla-flavored pizza candy, pasta
dinners, peanut-butter graham cookies -- even Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles pork rinds. No kidding.
   "What's happening is the old philosophy of get as much as
you can as fast as you can while the property is hot," says
Martin Friedman, editor of Chicago-based Gorman's New Product
News, which tracks new product introductions. "They seem to
be selling the rights to just about anyone who asks." The
strategy may make sense. The fad might well die out as
quickly even if the turtles weren't everywhere.
   Mark Freedman, president of Surge Licensing in Jericho,
N.Y., the turtles' licensing agent, boasts that turtles
retail sales will reach $1 billion world-wide this year --
rivaling the record-breaking sales of Batman paraphernalia
last year. Yet he insists the turtles aren't overexposed at
all. He likens them somewhat improbably to Mickey Mouse
rather than to once-hot, now dead-as-a-doornail fads such as
Strawberry Shortcake and Donkey Kong.
   "The goal is to create the next set of classic characters.
I really believe this isn't a fad," he says. "Most licensers
run and take the money. We've said no to hundreds and
hundreds of products." Among the requests he's turned down:
fishing rods, vitamins, 900 numbers and condoms. "I think
that was a joke," he says of the latter.
   Pizza Hut, a PepsiCo unit, also insists that the turtles
will last -- or at least won't run out of steam during the
yearlong tour and an international leg that's scheduled to
follow. "Everything that's been done before has been with the
cartoon characters. These guys are going to be live rock
musicians. It's different enough to allow us to break
through," says David Novak, the pizza chain's senior vice
president of marketing. "It isn't overexposure; this is new
exposure. We think they'll be hot for years to come."
   Mr. Novak says Pizza Hut also will benefit because, as
anyone with kids knows, pizza is the turtles' favorite food.
Mr. Freedman says that, in fact, he approached Pizza Hut
about a promotion before going to Burger King, but that Pizza
Hut executives at the time didn't bite. Chastened now, Pizza
Hut is going all out: sponsoring the tour, using the singing
turtles in commercials and creating promotions around the
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie video release and sequel.
   In any case, says Steven Leber, co-producer of the rock
tour, overexposure won't be a problem, because the cartoon
turtles are the ones that have been touting all sorts of
products. "These {live} turtles don't endorse all those
products; the only product they talk about is Pizza Hut," he
says.
   Still, it's hard not to think overkill when overwhelmed by
Teenage Mutant Ninja giftware, partyware, outerwear and now,
fast food promotions. After Burger King spent seven months
hammering home the turtles, the Pizza Hut promotion will be
somewhat diluted, contends Marty Blackman of Blackman &amp;
Raber, a New York sports and celebrity promotion company.
   Because the two fast food chains' promotions are very
different, "there is some credibility" for Pizza Hut, Mr.
Blackman says. "But is there some loss of value? No question
about it. The value of the promotion is diminished because of
Burger King's first and heavy promotion."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   SHOAL CREEK: Spalding Sports Worldwide, Chicopee, Mass.,
joined a group of advertisers that have canceled plans to
advertise on broadcasts of a professional golf tournament to
be held at the Shoal Creek country club in Birmingham, Ala.,
where there are no black members. The Associated Press
reported that Shoal Creek said it's willing to admit a black
businessman as an "honorary member" and that the Southern
Christian Leadership Conference called off its protest of the
event as a result.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Steve Hayden, chief creative officer of BBDO
Los Angeles/San Francisco, was named chairman of the Omnicom
Group unit's West Coast operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Painful Aftereffects of S&amp;L Disaster and Bailout
   Are Beginning to Be Felt All Across the Nation
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas and Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Because of the savings-and-loan disaster, it rains in
Clarice Leunzman's living room.
   Three years ago, Ms. Leunzman retired and started a new
life in a condominium in Cotati, Calif. She reported the
condensation problem to the condo's developer, but he went
broke before he fixed it. His lender, Atlas Savings &amp; Loan,
foreclosed on the project, but then it, too, went belly up.
It was acquired by another S&amp;L, Empire of America. Ms.
Leunzman barely raised an eyebrow when Empire was taken over
by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. Before it
could make repairs, even the federal agency disappeared,
wiped out by last year's thrift-bailout law.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now the condo is in the hands of another government
agency, and the living room is still wet. "This really says a
lot about our nation," Ms. Leunzman says glumly. "I hope this
doesn't continue into the '90s."
   In fact, it will continue into the next century. The S&amp;L
bomb has exploded, and the fallout has begun raining from
coast to coast.
   Partly because of the stupefying cost of the bailout
(which even by conservative estimates exceeds $130 billion,
without interest), the new restrictions mandated by the
bailout law, and the regulatory crackdown that is following
it, real estate isn't selling, business loans are shrinking
and local taxes are rising.
   "There's a sense that, my God, that black hole is so much
deeper than we realized, and it could really have some
effects," says George Iden, an economist at the Congressional
Budget Office.
   Not all of the effects of the S&amp;L mess are yet visible.
But already it is clear that the disaster will reach into the
life of almost every American. Here is a survey of some the
major effects that are appearing now across the country:
                                                                                                       

   THE ECONOMY
                                                                                                       

   Just as the thrift buildup helped fuel the go-go '80s, the
S&amp;L collapse is helping usher in the go-slow '90s.
   It's generally recognized that Reagan-era deficit spending
helped fuel the expansion. It's less often realized that
freewheeling S&amp;L spending, using deposits guaranteed by the
government, also pumped billions of dollars into the economy.
   "It was an integral part of the boom that was occurring,"
says Martin Regalia, a former Federal Reserve economist now
with the National Council of Savings Institutions, a thrift
trade group. Every white-elephant office building put up by a
thrift in Dallas employed construction workers who in turn
bought new cars. "A lot of the expansion was artificial,
created partly by law and regulatory whim."
   Now, in an uncharacteristic fit of prudence, the
government wants to settle up the budget deficit and S&amp;L
losses all at once. That means Americans could pay higher
prices for beer, cigarettes and gasoline as the Bush
administration and Congress go after the easy revenue
targets. A tax on the sale of stock is possible, too.
   Cuts in spending also loom. Federal aid to cities and
states is likely to be one of the first programs to be
shaved.
   Local governments may compensate by boosting their own
taxes. With real-estate prices being hammered, the city of
Austin, Texas, already has seen its tax receipts fall to $101
million from $144 million, even after a steep property-tax
increase. "Over the next year," says Mayor Lee Cooke, "I
believe you will see a flood of concerns and anger by folks
like me."
   Moreover, some economists argue, the bailout is a transfer
of cash to the wealthy from the less-so. Not everyone in the
U.S. holds savings, so by bailing out S&amp;L depositors, the
general populace is footing the bill for a smaller group
that, by definition, is wealthier than average. Many of those
depositors were holders of big certificates of deposit who
chased the above-market rates offered by insolvent thrifts.
   "If one were honest, this probably works against the less
wealthy," says James Barth, a former thrift-agency economist
now at Auburn University.
                                                                                                       

   THE CREDIT CRUNCH
                                                                                                       

   Five years ago, S&amp;Ls doled out loans to just about anyone.
That's over. Now builders can't get loans, and housing starts
are down for the fifth straight month. A shortage of
low-income housing threatens to become a major issue in the
1990s. To be sure, a real-estate slump in parts of the
country and a weaker economy have also hurt the availability
of credit, prompting Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan
to ease interest rates.
   Shaken by the thrift debacle, regulators are forcing
thrifts and banks to suddenly ante up more equity, or
capital. But the regulators also are forcing them to set
aside more reserves from profit, even for on-time loans to
solvent parties. Second National Bank, Annapolis, Md.,
already has a hearty capital base, but its president, Henry
Berliner, still is doubling reserves for the "performing
nonperforming" loans. Satisfying the regulators' new appetite
for reserves, he estimates, will trim about $1 million from
Second National's earnings next year.
   Norman Flynn, president of the National Association of
Realtors, complains that "banks are under such regulatory
paranoia that they won't touch real estate or construction."
   In Owensboro, Ky., banker William Spurrier wants to lend
$22 million to Tommy Thompson of Thompson Homes Inc., a
reliable construction borrower for 42 years. The
thrift-bailout law says he can't: It places limits on the
amount he can lend to any single borrower. So Mr. Thompson's
160-house development is on hold.
   William Sinclair, president of Washington Federal Savings
made a big loan for the construction of 123 houses on the
Potomac River. Loan repayments are on schedule, and 114 of
the houses are finished. Nonetheless, unless he sells an
interest in the loan, he must foreclose on the builder: The
loan exceeds by $1.3 million what he is permitted to lend
under the new law.
   After he forecloses on the builder, Robert Mitchell, he
plans to hire him to complete construction. "Who better to
finish the project?" asks Mr. Sinclair.
                                                                                                       

   INSIDE THE BELTWAY
                                                                                                       

   For the longest time, the S&amp;L disaster hovered like a big,
black cloud on the Washington horizon. Now the storm has
broken. Partly because of the thrift troubles, George Bush
has reneged on his no-new-taxes promise, the central theme of
his 1988 campaign. If the economy sours, the S&amp;L problem will
loom even larger over his 1992 re-election effort. Meanwhile,
his son Neil has become a national symbol of the thrift mess
for his role in the $1 billion collapse of a Denver thrift,
where he was a director. And congressional Democrats, putting
aside their own role in creating the mess, now are trying to
lay the botched bailout at the president's feet.
   But the storm is still new. The most startling fact about
the S&amp;L crisis may be just how little effect it has had so
far in Washington. For all the fuss about the "Keating Five"
senators who intervened with regulators on behalf of an S&amp;L
executive who made big campaign contributions, life on
Capitol Hill has changed very little. No sweeping laws have
been passed to revamp campaign finance. And many in Congress
are still happy to accept donations from S&amp;L executives.
   GOP Sen. Phil Gramm should be in a position to judge the
effects of the S&amp;L mess. He's from Texas, the black hole of
S&amp;L money. And he is a member of the Senate Banking
Committee, home to some of the legislation that deregulated
the thrift industry, and to two of the Keating Five. But when
asked for evidence that Congress has been embarrassed by the
S&amp;L mess, he points only to an obscure amendment on a housing
bill to increase premiums on government-backed mortgages
that, despite opposition from the housing industry, passed.
   "We would never have been able to pass that before the S&amp;L
problem," says the Texas Republican.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- UnionFed Financial Corp.:
   Quarterly Loss is Posted;
   Loan-Loss Provision Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UFF
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   UnionFed Financial Corp. said a sharply higher, $9.4
million provision for loan losses resulted in a June 30
fiscal fourth-quarter loss of $1.7 million for the Los
Angeles-based thrift holding company.
   In the year-earlier quarter, UnionFed had an $800,000
provision for loan losses and a $5.6 million profit for the
period. The latest period's loss equaled 23 cents a share,
compared with net income of $1.10 a share a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   UnionFed said its sharply higher addition to reserves
resulted from deterioration in commerical real estate markets
and sounded a back-to-basics theme. "The bank and its
subsidiaries intend to concentrate new lending and
development activities primarily on residential properties
located in California," Roger L. Kringen, chairman and chief
executive officer, said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Fun Gets Serious at Lincoln Center...
   ----
   By Mark Swed
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- Lincoln Center rarely is a serious place
during the summer. This year, for instance, audiences can
smile away hot city nights with vast amounts of serene,
blissed-out Mozart, with flashy balletic spectacle courtesy
of companies from Moscow and Sydney, with pleasantly operatic
Sondheim, or with cheerful, nostalgic jazz. Afterward, there
is dancing to alfresco salsa in the plaza.
   But somehow a chubby "percussionist" whose singing
resembles the sounds made by a strangling chicken has found
his way into the midst of Lincoln Center's lite summer fare,
as has an unsettling new opera about Charles Manson and even
the dread Karen Finley, the controversial performance artist
who recently ran afoul of the National Endowment for the
Arts. Indeed, just walk into Alice Tully Hall, the most
intimate of Lincoln Center's four main stages. The
institutionally dull lobby has turned festive, thanks to a
visually raucous exhibit of flamboyant and whimsical artworks
by performance artists.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All of this is part of "Serious Fun]" -- an attempt to
reach out to the kind of young, curious, arty audiences that
regularly flock to the venturesome Brooklyn Academy of Music
but almost never to the nation's pre-eminent center for the
performing arts. It did so initially by inviting such
well-known trendy figures as Philip Glass and Laurie
Anderson, while also offering a sampling of some of the
better (or at least more professional) "downtown" dance,
performance art and music. But now in its fourth summer,
"Serious Fun]" has become more daring, more original and . .
. more serious.
   It still features big names to draw audiences. Ann
Magnuson, the former downtown performance artist and now
television personality, opened this year's installment with a
polished and entertaining one-woman show in the Lily Tomlin
mold. The showcase programs, such as the annual Megadance
event, which concludes this year's festival today and
tomorrow with new works it has commissioned from eight young
choreographers, are as useful as ever for offering an
overview of the avant-garde scene. And it has continued to
keep the door open for the untalented likes of the
caterwauling David Moss, the above-mentioned "percussionist,"
lest anyone accuse all downtown art of becoming smugly
commercial.
   But "Serious Fun]" also has increasingly undertaken to
produce new and potentially important work, but this year's
major undertaking, John Moran's "The Manson Family," was a
lot more serious than fun. Mr. Moran, who is 25 years old,
came to attention last year with his quirky hour-long chamber
opera, "Jack Benny]" in which skits from the comedian's
television show were turned into amusingly surrealist music
theater.
   With "The Manson Family," Mr. Moran further pursues his
mythologizing of popular culture, and particularly
television. He originally had titled the opera "Helter
Five-O," and had planned to meld the story of the notorious
cult murder with the once-popular detective show, "Hawaii
Five-O," until CBS lawyers got wind of it, and claimed
copyright protection of the show's title and characters. So
Mr. Moran changed some names, but he nevertheless replaced
Vincent Bugliosi, the Manson prosecutor, with a Hawaiian
detective.
   Ultimately "The Manson Family" failed in nearly every way
that "Jack Benny]" had succeeded. While "Jack Benny]"
replaced traditional singing with an electronically altered
version of the TV show's soundtrack, the Manson saga was
mostly just acted, with occasional, incompetent singing. At
its most powerful moments, Mr. Moran's score for piano, viola
and electronics had a dramatically compelling kineticism, but
mostly it was background. Mr. Moran's trick of having actors
repeating action and text over and over -- so striking in
"Jack Benny]" seemed stale and gimmicky here.
   But mainly Mr. Moran seemed out of his depth, as he
vacillated between treating Mr. Manson as an idealized
charismatic visionary or as the creep that he really is. His
musical ideas are interesting but not yet strong enough to
propel so charged a subject, and it was up to the finely
acted production by the Ridge Theater to carry him along
through most of the 75 minutes. But Mr. Moran is young, and
he is likely to outgrow some of his cheap theatrics, as Ms.
Finley surely has.
   Ms. Finley may have a reputation for once exploiting
shocking vulgarity on stage, but "We Keep Our Victims Ready"
proved a performance piece of surprising eloquence and power.
This is the work for which she has become notorious -- since
it involves smearing chocolate on her partially nude body. In
fact, Ms. Finley was topless for only a minute or two (more
nudity has been seen at the New York City Opera), and that
proved the least effective part of her piece anyway.
   Ms. Finley's real talent is in her ability to go from her
slightly awkward and silly normal stage self into a
trancelike state, intoning her text like a vibrant Southern
preacher as she enters inside the feelings of society's
woebegone -- battered women or homosexuals with AIDS. It is a
style of incantation that comes impressively close to music.
Many in the large audience had been drawn to Ms. Finley's
performance simply because of her newsworthiness. I was one
of those, having found her earlier work too overbearing for
my taste, but by the end of the performance the crowd stood
and cheered with fervor. It was an honestly won victory for
Ms. Finley. And it was a victory of sorts for "Serious Fun]"
as well.
   The festival presents its share of benign artists who fit
right in with Lincoln Center's summertime philosophy. This
year there have been the likes of Michael Moschen, a
pretentious new-age juggler who aspires to dance but doesn't
come close, and the conventional standup comedy and pitiable
singing of Harry Shearer. But the series producer, Jedidiah
Wheeler, must fight hard to convince an increasingly nervous
Lincoln Center to allow challenging artists on its
prestigious stage, especially given these touchy times for
public arts funding.
   Yet brave and undaunted, "Serious Fun]" risked even
grossing out its open-minded audience with the brilliant but
disturbing Italian clown, Leo Bassi, who juggled a piano with
his feet. Then, as a shocking impromptu encore, he pretended
to eat excrement -- even this he did with a weird kind of
flair. Whether most people would take this as Mr. Bassi
intended, as a representation of doing the ultimately
distasteful for freedom of expression, he certainly tested
ordinary notions of what is serious and what is fun.
   (See related story: "...But Is It Art -- or Trash?" -- WSJ
Aug. 1, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   W.R. Berkley Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BKLY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   W.R. BERKLEY Corp. (Greenwich, Conn.) -- Larry A. Hansen
was named vice president and controller. Mr. Hansen, 45 years
old, had been treasurer of the insurance holding company's
Continental Western Insurance unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   USX Earnings
   In 2nd Quarter
   Decline by 15%
   ---
   Big Steelmaker's Oil Gains
   Don't Offset Profit Drop
   In Steel, Losses in Gas
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   X
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
EARNINGS (ERN)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- USX Corp. posted a 15% earnings drop in the
second quarter as oil-related gains failed to offset lower
steel profits and losses associated with the company's
natural gas business.
   The nation's largest steelmaker earned $212 million, or 81
cents a share, compared with $250 million, or 91 cents a
share, in the year-ago second quarter. Sales slid 8% to $4.6
billion from $5 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest quarter includes pretax charges of $99 million
from, among other things, a loss from the anticipated third
quarter sale of certain Texas Oil &amp; Gas Corp. assets, and
costs associated with the company's successful proxy fight
against New York investor Carl Icahn. Mr. Icahn, who owns a
13.3% stake, failed to convince a majority of shareholders to
back his proposal to spin off the steel business. Those
charges were offset by a favorable pretax $112 million
tax-related adjustment. That didn't, however, match last
year's second quarter pretax gains of $140 million from asset
sales.
   The company noted that, excluding special items and the
profits from businesses sold, second quarter operating income
actually rose to $428 million from $405 million. Chairman
Charles A. Corry said the company is "building on a three
year trend of improving operations."
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, USX
closed at $34.50, up 12.5 cents.
   The strongest leg of USX remains Marathon Oil, where lower
crude oil prices helped boost profit margins in the refining,
marketing and transportation -- so called downstream
operations -- to a record $263 million, compared with $169
million a year ago.
   USX, like other steelmakers, has suffered from price
erosion which began in the second half of 1989 and has only
recently begun to reverse itself. Moreover, the industry
faces higher costs, at the same time when shipments, while
improving, fail to match last year's robust levels. At USX,
steel segment operating profits slid 53% to $80 million from
$171 million, also reflecting the absence of operating income
from its Lorain, Ohio plant, which was sold. Steel segment
sales fell to $1.4 billion from $1.6 billion.
   Independent steel analyst Charles Bradford noted that
USX's steel-related costs rose about 6%, while prices
improved only about 1%. As a result, he said profits per ton
of steel shipped, while higher than the first quarter,
slipped to $28 from $53 a year ago.
   John Tumazos, an analyst with Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette
Securities Corp. said USX should have higher steel profits
because, unlike many of its competitors, it has lower labor
costs and a fully funded pension plan. Moreover, he sees
major hurdles ahead, including the relining of a major blast
furnace at Gary, Ind., and upcoming contract talks with the
United Steelworkers of America.
   "The major challenge facing this company will be the Jan.
31 labor contract," he said. If USX agrees to a contract
similar to its competitors, including Bethlehem Steel Corp.,
the company's steel labor costs could rise $200 million a
year and nearly erase operating profits, he contends.
   Texas Oil &amp; Gas Corp. reported an operating loss of $30
million compared with a loss of $13 million in last year's
second quarter. USX, which had tried to sell all of the
unit's exploration and production properties, now expects to
sell three of six packages.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   D&amp;N Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DNFC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   D&amp;N FINANCIAL Corp. (Hancock, Mich.) -- Joseph C. Bromley
was appointed to the board of this thrift, filling a vacancy
created by the death of Richard E. Hinks. Mr. Bromley, 61
years old, has been a director of D&amp;N Savings Bank, the
company's principal subsidiary, since 1980. He previously
served as a director of D&amp;N Financial from 1988 through 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Newport News Savings Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   NNSL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEWPORT NEWS SAVINGS BANK (Newport News, Va.) -- Robert N.
Springer, 35 years old, was appointed president and chief
operating officer, subject to approval by the Office of
Thrift Supervision. He succeeds Theodore W. Potter, 53, who
resigned last month as executive vice president and chief
operating officer. Mr. Springer will retain his current
position as chief financial officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Copperweld Holders Clear Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   COS F.IME
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Copperweld Corp. said shareholders at a
special meeting here approved the previously announced
agreement for Copperweld to be acquired by Imetal, a Paris
building materials maker.
   The transaction is expected to be completed by the close
of business today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As previously reported, Imetal agreed to acquire the 34.8%
of Copperweld it didn't already own for $17 a share.
   Copperweld produces wire, cable, rods and tubing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Unisys Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   UIS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   UNISYS Corp. (Blue Bell, Pa.) -- This computer company
named four executives to the additional post of corporate
vice president: Edward A. Blechschmidt, president, Pacific
Asia Americas division; Frank G. Brandenberg, vice president,
consumer systems group; John W. Perry, vice president, Unisys
U.K.; and Harry B. Traylor, president, government Systems
division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Mitsubishi Bank Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MBK WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MITSUBISHI BANK Ltd. (Tokyo) -- Yutaka Hasegawa, 50 years
old, was named senior executive officer of this bank's North
American headquarters as well as director and general manager
of its New York branch. Mr. Hasegawa previously was general
manager of the North American administration division. He
succeeds Takeshi Tange, who has been named director and
general manager of the international planning division in the
Tokyo headquarters.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Aluminum Co. of America
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ALUMINUM CO. OF AMERICA (Pittsburgh) -- George E.
Bergeron, 48 years old, was named vice president and general
manager of Alcoa's Rigid Packaging division, the company's
largest unit. Mr. Bergeron succeeds Thomas J. Taylor, 59, who
will assume a newly created position for sales, trading and
recycling in Alcoa's metals and chemicals group. Mr. Bergeron
had been president of Alcoa's closure systems unit since
1982.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Cimflex Teknowledge Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMTK WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CIMFLEX TEKNOWLEDGE Corp. (Pittsburgh) -- Sushil K.
Trikha, president and chief executive officer of this
software products concern, resigned for personal reasons, the
company said. Daniel Robusto, formerly vice president of
finance and administration, was named president. The company
formed a committee to consider candidates, including Mr.
Robusto, for the chief executive position.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada's Domestic Output
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada's gross domestic product fell 0.2% in May
from April on a decline in construction, Statistics Canada, a
federal agency, said.
   The May drop followed a 0.1% decline in April and a 0.2%
rise in March. Gross domestic product is the total value of a
nation's output of goods and services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Production of goods fell 0.3% in May mainly because of a
1.6% drop in construction activity. Service-industry output
fell 0.2% in May.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.CM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE, Toronto, said it plans
to issue 150 million Canadian dollars ($130.2 million) of
debentures to mature in August, 2010. It said the debentures
would pay 11.85% interest for the first five years, with the
rate adjusted through an auction process for each subsequent
five-year period. The issue will be underwritten by a group
headed by Wood Gundy Inc. The bank said proceeds would be
added to its capital base.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Monarch Capital Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MON WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MONARCH CAPITAL Corp. (Springfield, Mass.) -- Ronald P.
Freres, formerly senior vice president, was named to the new
post of executive vice president. Mr. Freres retains his
title of chief financial officer of this financial services
concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CML Group's Sale of Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   CML H.SWP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ACTON, Mass. -- CML Group Inc. said it signed an agreement
to sell certain assets and liabilities of its Carroll Reed
subsidiary to affiliates of Swire Pacific Ltd. of Hong Kong.
Terms of the cash sale were not disclosed.
   CML, a marketer of consumer products under the trade names
NordicTrack, the Nature Company and Britches of Georgetowne,
said the transaction would be completed in 60 days. The sale
completes a corporate restructuring announced last year, the
company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stotler Funds Unit Is Charged by CFTC
   ----
   By Scott McMurray and Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SG
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Commodity Futures Trading Commission charged a
commodity pool operator linked to Chicago Board of Trade
Chairman Karsten "Cash" Mahlmann with misusing investor
funds.
   Mr. Mahlmann wasn't charged with wrongdoing by the CFTC.
But the commission charges are the latest in a series of
blows to his credibility during the past few weeks. His reign
as the most powerful officer of the world's largest futures
exchange is over, even if he remains in office until his
fourth one-year term expires at year end, exchange members
say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The CFTC charged in its complaint that the pool operator,
Stotler Funds Inc., violated anti-fraud laws by effectively
making $5.55 million in loans from two pools to its parent
firm, Stotler Group Inc. That money represented customer
funds that the investors in the pools were told via
disclosure documents would be invested in commodities, the
agency charged.
   Mr. Mahlmann is a director of Stotler Funds and chairman
of financially troubled Stotler Group, as well as its largest
shareholder. Neither Mr. Mahlmann nor other Stotler officers,
including Stotler Group's chief executive officer, Thomas
Egan, have returned repeated calls for comment.
   The CFTC is seeking a temporary restraining order from a
federal judge in Chicago, where Stotler is based, and is
asking for the appointement of a receiver "to protect the
customer funds in the pool," said CFTC enforcement director
Dennis Klejna.
   Mr. Mahlmann's effectiveness as an exchange leader has
been crippled by his Stotler ties. The collapse last month of
Stotler Group's Stotler &amp; Co. unit, which has been forced to
pull out of futures trading for lack of capital, has
tarnished the reputation of the Board of Trade and the
futures industry at a time of increased congressional concern
about lax futures industry oversight, CBOT members say.
   Mr. Mahlmann can't escape being tarred by Stotler &amp; Co.'s
failure. His defenders note that he has spent most of his
time on exchange activities while CBOT chairman, leaving the
day-to-day management of Stotler to other firm officials. But
a senior executive of one CBOT member firm said, "He is still
chairman of the company. He looks bad if he didn't know what
was going on, and he looks worse if he did."
   Mr. Mahlmann, 52 years old, will be consumed by regulatory
concerns surrounding Stotler for months to come. Futures and
securities regulators continue to pore over Stotler &amp; Co.
financial records and those of Stotler Group, which is on the
brink of insolvency. Regulators say it is almost certain that
disciplinary action will be taken against Stotler and
possibly some of its officers relating to events surrounding
Stotler &amp; Co.'s collapse.
   Stotler Group's borrowing from customer funds also may to
be referred to the U.S. attorney's office in Chicago for
possible criminal prosecution, said an officer of the
National Futures Association, a futures industry-financed
regulator. The disclosure of the borrowing from the funds has
already prompted calls from futures regulators for tougher
oversight of intercompany transactions to protect the rapidly
growing managed funds segment of the futures industry.
   The CFTC said Stotler Group received a loan of $1 million
from one of the pools, Advanced Portfolio Management, that
equaled about 10% of the fund's assets. And $4.55 million of
Stotler Group commercial paper was purchased by the other
pool, Compass Futures Fund Inc. The commercial paper
transaction was "in effect" a loan equal to about 80% of that
fund's assets, the CFTC said.
   Last week Stotler Funds halted redemptions to fund
investors, telling them that Stotler Group had defaulted on
$260,000 in commercial paper payments. Stotler Group
disclosed last week that it defaulted on a total of $750,000
in commercial paper payments and may not be able to make $7.6
million in debt payments due in 30 days.
   Late Monday the CBOT's board unanimously reaffirmed its
support for Mr. Mahlmann as its chairman, despite the events
surrounding Stotler. But Mr. Mahlmann's lack of detailed
knowledge about Stotler's activities, even though he has
spent the past three weeks trying to salvage its futures
operations, became apparent during the CBOT board meeting
Monday, say individuals familiar with the meeting. Mr.
Mahlmann told the directors that he had just learned of
Stotler Group's borrowings from certain customer funds hours
before the Monday meeting, the individuals said.
   Directors said they had to read Tuesday morning news
accounts to learn the amount of the borrowing and the names
of the funds involved.
   "You can bet there were some raised eyebrows around here
after we read the papers," said one CBOT officer.
   A letter distributed to exchange members yesterday from
the board pointed out that Stotler's funds aren't directly
regulated by the exchange.
   The letter also appeared to be intended to assure members
that the exchange had acted responsibly in handling Stotler's
cash crisis. Some members have asserted that the exchange
might have more aggressively monitored Stotler's activities
in recent years if Mr. Mahlmann hadn't been exchange
chairman.
   "This is being called a whitewash on the floor," grumbled
one member about the board's letter.
   Despite the generally reassuring tone of the letter, the
board disclosed that Stotler &amp; Co. had operated with
regulatory capital below a key industry benchmark since
September 1987. The letter said Stotler's capital was less
than 7% of segregated customer funds since that time, which
meant the company couldn't withdraw any equity capital.
Futures brokerage firms can be forced out of business if
their net capital falls below 4% of segregated customer
funds.
   After regulators disallowed an intercompany funds transfer
of about $13 million from Stotler &amp; Co. to Stotler Group
early last month, Stotler &amp; Co.'s net capital fell below the
4% level. After failing to line up an emergency cash infusion
of $10 million, Stotler &amp; Co. said it was transferring all
customer accounts to other firms and leaving the futures
brokerage business.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boat People Prove Their Worth
   ----
   By Nathan Caplan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   It's that time of year again. The boat people are heading
out of Vietnam and putting their lives at risk in hope of
finding a safe haven.
   But even if they escape the pirates and the perils of
ocean travel in unseaworthy vessels, there is no assurance
they will reach their goal. If picked up at sea by merchant
or naval vessels, they may not be allowed to disembark
because Indonesia, Macao and Singapore will not allow them
first asylum. If they reach Malaysia or Thailand, they are
likely to be turned away and pushed back to the open sea. If
they reach Hong Kong, they face the arbitrary distinction
between economic and political deprivation; 90% will be
"screened out" as people "merely seeking a better life," as
one British official put it. In consequence, they may be sent
back forcibly to Vietnam, a fate many view as worse than
death.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This pathetic human drama continues, along with the
attendant juridical and political nonsense that keeps
desperate people from finding safe harbor. About 194,000
Indochinese refugees are languishing in camps in Southeast
Asia because no one will give them a home. Some of them have
been interned for as long as 10 years.
   It is this situation that the U.N.-sponsored conference on
refugees -- a rite of summer as sure as waves of boats from
Vietnam -- is considering this week in Geneva. The favored
"solution" of many of the convention's participants is to
ship the boat people back, mostly to Vietnam and against
their will if necessary, and to pretend that they are not
"real" refugees.
   The irony is that just as it has become much more
difficult for boat people to resettle because countries
everywhere -- including the U.S. -- are cutting their refugee
quotas, the boat people who made it have proved their worth
as immigrants.
   From 1981 to 1986, my colleagues and I conducted a
large-scale study of the economic and social adaptation of
nearly 7,000 boat people, constituting nearly 1,400
households across the U.S. The refugees were predominately
Vietnamese and ethnic Chinese from Vietnam; the remainder
were Lao. All had been allowed into the U.S. during the late
1970s.
   Unlike those airlifted out of Vietnam after the fall of
Saigon in April 1975, this wave of refugees had limited
education and occupational skills, little or no prior contact
with the West, and endured greater hardship in their effort
to flee -- in short, they were much like today's boat people.
Only one in 10 knew enough English on arrival to be able to
count or to read street signs and, in terms of material
belongings, they arrived with nothing. In addition, they
entered the U.S. during its worst recession since the Great
Depression.
   Nonetheless, in a few years the adults had found
employment and climbed out of poverty, while their children
surprised even experts in refugee resettlement with their
remarkable academic progress. Indeed, little in their
backgrounds prepared us to expect the great leaps that gave
them parity or better with other Americans in such a brief
period.
   According to our studies, unemployment dropped sharply
from almost 90% during the first months of resettlement to
about 15% for those in the U.S. for 3 1/2 years or more. (The
nationwide unemployment rate at the time ran as high as 11%.)
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, today the
unemployment rate among all Indochinese -- including the
Hmong and Cambodians, who have not been as economically
successful as the Vietnamese -- is 8%, against a national
average of 5.3%.
   When the unit of analysis is the household instead of the
individual, an even more encouraging picture emerges. The
number of jobs per household increased the longer the
refugees were in the U.S. By the end of three years, there
were about as many -- 42% -- two-job households as one-job
homes. After three years, almost 85% of all households had at
least one person working, and half of those had two. This was
because with few exceptions, the first parent who could find
a job took it and the other spouse entered the labor force as
soon as the youngest child reached school age. The steady
increase in the percentage of multiple-job households is the
main reason for the boat people's consistent economic
improvement.
   The boat people in the U.S. for four months or less earned
only 46% of the poverty-level standard. By their 40th month,
however, the 1,400 households studied were earning an average
of 171% of the poverty standard, or about $1,400 per month
per household ($16,800 a year). That still falls short of
middle-class comfort, but it is adequate to meet basic needs
and to attain a reasonable standard of living.
   And remember, the boat people achieved this during the
late 1970s and early 1980s, when the U.S. was in a recession,
and unemployment and poverty levels were rising. During these
hard times, the boat people not only survived, but improved
their economic status.
   Equally remarkable is the scholastic achievement of the
refugee children. Although in the U.S. for an average of less
than three years at the time of our study, and with virtually
no English skills upon arrival, four out of five of the
children attained a very high (A or B) overall grade-point
average, compared with about 27% of American children as a
whole. In general, the school grades for the Indochinese
refugee children were highest in courses with no language
component. For example, almost half -- 47% -- earned an A in
math.
   School administrators across the country reported that the
refugee children excelled in their schoolwork not only in an
absolute sense, but also when compared to their non-refugee
cohorts. Said one superintendent of a city school system,
"These children are hard-striving and eager to learn.
Teachers feel rewarded to have them, even in overcrowded
classrooms."
   The administrators often referred to the boat children's
overrepresentation among valedictorians to underscore the
point. For example, in Garden Grove, Calif., in 1985 the
Indochinese refugee community made up less than 20% of the
school population, yet 12 of the 14 high school
valedictorians were of Indochinese refugee background.
Finally, conversations with administrators and examination of
transcripts revealed virtually no suspensions, drug use, or
serious misconduct among the children of the boat people.
   In view of the time the boat people spent in refugee
camps, the disruption of life, and their lack of English and
transferable job skills, their economic and educational
attainments are stunning. To a surprising degree the boat
people have achieved a high level of control over their
destiny -- something that cannot be said of their compatriots
in Vietnam.
   What is done about a problem depends on how it is defined.
In Hong Kong, which suffers both a labor shortage and a brain
drain, the boat people themselves -- not the country they
have fled -- have been fingered as the problem. That was the
principle behind the June 1988 decision by Hong Kong's
British authorities to institute a screening process that
could discern the supposed difference between "economic
migrants" and "political refugees."
   Screening has changed the way refugees are treated not
only in Southeast Asia, but world-wide. Refugees are becoming
regarded as a social malignancy, instead of as victims. In
regard to the boat people, it seems paradoxical that such
gross injustice should be applied at a time when many nations
could take them in. The U.S. and much of Western Europe, for
example, bemoan the shortage of labor and the failure of
their own citizenry to show the energy and dedication needed
for an achieving society -- the very attributes that the boat
people have demonstrated by their success in the U.S.
   The boat people have proved that they are solid,
productive citizens, even under difficult circumstances. The
Geneva conference should note that the way to solve the
"problem" of the boat people is to get them out of the camps
and into societies where they can get on with their lives.
   ---
   Mr. Caplan, a professor of psychology at the University of
Michigan, is co-author of "The Boat People and Achievement in
America" (University of Michigan Press, 1989).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   BRITISH FINANCIER Robert Maxwell owns a 27% stake in
Scitex Corp. A money manager interviewed in Monday's Heard on
the Street column mistakenly attributed the stake to Rupert
Murdoch.
   (See: "Heard on the Street: Top-Ranked Zweig Is Nervous
About Stocks" -- WSJ July 30, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   JONI HERSCH is on the faculty of the University of
Wyoming. The affiliation was misstated in yesterday's
edition.
   (See: "Labor Letter: A Special News Report on People and
Their Jobs in Offices, Fields and Factories" -- WSJ July 31,
1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Plans to Sell
   $18.4 Billion in Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $2.35 billion in
new cash with the sale Monday of about $18.4 billion in
short-term bills to redeem $16.06 billion in maturing bills.
   The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and
26-week bills maturing Nov. 8, 1990, and Feb. 7, 1991,
respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum $10,000
denominations, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Monday at the
Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Are Mixed; UAL Falls
   On Worries Over Buy-Out Plan
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- New troubles for the proposed UAL Corp.
buy-out failed to seriously shake the stock market.
   Despite indications that two more of the major banks
involved in the employee buy-out had withdrawn, the market
avoided the steep downturn that took place last October when
an earlier buy-out proposal fell through.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Share prices rebounded from a late bout of selling to
finish mixed. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 12.13
to 2905.20, but broader indexes managed to post modest gains.
Advancers outnumbered decliners by 817 to 731 on the New York
Stock Exchange.
   Oil and utility stocks, which set the pace Monday as the
industrial average climbed 18.82, once again were market
leaders. The Dow Jones index of energy stocks rose more than
1.5%, while the Dow Jones Utilities Average gained 2.96 to
210.01.
   Among other measures, Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index
rose 0.60 to 356.15, the New York Stock Exchange Composite
Index rose 0.42 to 194.60 and the Dow Jones Equity Market
Index gained 0.47 to 329.96. Big Board volume swelled to
173,810,000 shares from 146.5 million Monday.
   "From a trading standpoint, it still seems like it's
fairly quiet," said Ronald B. Doran, director of
institutional trading at C.L. King &amp; Associates, Albany, N.Y.
Concern about economic reports coming later this week is
keeping many investors out of the market, he said.
   The Dow Jones Transportation Average fell 31.57 to
1093.43, its first close below 1100 since late February. UAL,
which skidded 16 7/8 to 140, accounted for most of the
decline.
   The sell-off in UAL, the parent of United Airlines, came
amid indications that the group of five banks that had agreed
to lead the labor group's effort to arrange funding may be
falling apart. UAL plunged after two more banks, Citicorp and
Chase Manhattan, indicated they have withdrawn temporarily
from work on the proposed $4.38 billion, $201-a-share
buy-out.
   On Monday, this newspaper said Chemical Banking Corp. had
withdrawn.
   Andrew Geller, an airline analyst at Provident National
Bank of Philadelphia, said the odds that the union-led group
will be able to complete the deal are "too close to call" at
this point.
   "There's just a general lack of feeling that they will get
financing," Mr. Geller said, adding that his price target for
the stock if there isn't any prospect for an accord would be
$120 a share.
   Last Oct. 13, the industrial average plunged 190.58 points
amid a wave of heavy selling in the wake of news that the
unions hadn't been able to obtain the financing for an
earlier buy-out offer.
   This time around, the downturn wasn't nearly so severe.
The average hit bottom in late trading with a loss of about
28 points as sell programs related to stock-index arbitrage
pushed prices lower.
   "We have a market that is really basically trying to find
some direction here," said C.L. King's Ronald B. Doran, as
some investors pin their hopes for higher stock prices on the
possibility of lower interest rates.
   That prospect has drawn attention to this week's key
economic data, which include the July survey of corporate
purchasing managers, due today, and the July employment
report, set for Friday.
   Student Loan Marketing Association, the Big Board's most
active issue, sank 2 7/8 to 42 3/8 as 2.3 million shares were
traded. The company said it has agreed to lend as much as an
additional $200 million to Higher Education Assistance
Foundation, a financially strapped guarantor of student loans
that counts Sallie Mae among its major creditors.
   Nervousness about potential weakness in California's real
estate market fueled selling in issues of bank and thrift
holding companies based in the state. Wells Fargo fell 3 3/8
to 68 1/2, Security Pacific lost 1 1/4 to 31 5/8, First
Interstate Bancorp dropped 2 1/8 to 33, HomeFed dropped 1/4
to 11 1/8 and Glenfed fell 3/8 to 11.
   And CalFed, which fell 1 1/2 Monday, went down another 1
to 10 3/8 as recent heavy activity in the stock continued.
Selling by a large institutional shareholder appeared to be
fueling the stock's downturn, traders said. CalFed, which
recently reported a $53 million loss for the second quarter,
said there weren't any new corporate developments to explain
the decline.
   Chase Manhattan dropped 1/2 to 19 1/8 on 1.5 million
shares. Dividend-related trades by institutions swelled
activity in the bank holding stock, which now has a 13.4%
dividend yield. The record date for the next quarterly payout
is today.
   Lowe's tumbled 2 3/4 to 29 7/8. Salomon Brothers and
Merrill Lynch both downgraded the stock and reduced its
earnings projections for the fiscal second quarter and year
Monday, when the stock fell four points on the Big Board.
Salomon analyst Jack D. Seibald subsequently reiterated his
comments.
   Arkla fell 1 3/4 to 22 on 1.4 million shares following
news of its plans to acquire Diversified Energies in a stock
swap valued at about $630 million. Diversified Energies rose
5 7/8 to 35; Arkla agreed to exchange stock worth about $39 a
share for each common share of the company.
   Freeport-McMoRan Oil &amp; Gas rallied 2 to 10 on 1.2 million
shares. Freeport-McMoRan Inc., which already owns 81.5% of
its common shares, agreed to swap stock valued at $10.50 a
share for the rest. Freeport-McMoRan Inc. lost 1/4 to 35 1/8.
   Exxon rose 1 1/8 to 51 7/8 on 2.3 million shares, and
other oil stocks also posted solid gains. Chevron climbed 1
1/4 to 79 3/8, Texaco rose 1/4 to 63 1/4, Mobil went up 1/8
to 65 1/4 and Amoco rose 7/8 to 55 5/8; among oil-services
issues, Schlumberger climbed 2 1/4 to 65 3/8 and Halliburton
gained 1 5/8 to 54 7/8.
   Smith Corona advanced 1 to 5 3/4 on 1.3 million shares.
After falling sharply in the year since Britain's Hanson PLC
sold a 50% stake to the public at $21 a share, the stock may
now rank among the market's best buys, this newspaper
reported in its "Heard on the Street" column.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 0.05
to 353.60. Volume totaled 12,560,000 shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Allenisms Were a Hoot
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   I'm surprised that Frederick C. Klein, when writing about
baseball announcer Mel Allen (Leisure &amp; Arts, June 29), chose
to recall "Ballantine blast" from the immediate post-World
War II period instead of a more quintessential Allenism, such
as, "Foul, by the width of a White Owl cigar]"
   L. Brooks Hughes
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Marshall, Mich.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   FDA Panel Urges Alpha Interferon
   Be Cleared for Hepatitis Treatment
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   SGP IMNX
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   ROCKVILLE, Md. -- A Food and Drug Administration advisory
panel recommended approval of alpha interferon to treat a
form of chronic viral hepatitis, or liver inflammation.
   A formal approval by the FDA, which is expected to follow
the panel's advice, would make interferon the first
specifically approved treatment for any form of viral
hepatitis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It would also clear the way for Schering-Plough Corp. to
market the biotechnology product for a form of the disease
which is formally known as chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis.
About half a million Americans now suffer this form of liver
inflammation, which is spread by tainted blood transfusions,
unclean hypodermic needles and sexual contact. About 150,000
new cases are diagnosed each year, of which half progress to
a state of chronic infection. A virus responsible for about
85% of such cases was recently identified and dubbed
hepatitis C, making antibody testing possible.
   World-wide, the number of cases of the disease is
increasing and has assumed "epidemic" proportions in Japan,
according to Robert J. Spiegel, a Schering vice president of
clinical research.
   Chronic hepatitis sufferers, who are at increased risk of
death from cirrhosis of the liver or liver cancer, would be
candidates for alpha interferon treatment under the panel's
recommendation.
   Schering, based in Kenilworth, N.J., said it was
"immensely pleased" by yesterday's action, which virtually
ensures a much broader market for interferon. The drug
previously has been approved for only a few small niches,
mostly in cancer treatment. The action also marks a major
milestone in the evolution of biotechnology industry, where
interferon held the rank of a pioneer, previously consigned
to play a bit part, but now stepping up to fill what may
become a major role.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Schering
closed at $48.875, up 37.5 cents.
   To win the panel's approval, Schering scientists presented
data on more than 300 patients, showing that liver
inflammation subsided in 53% of the patients treated with
alpha interferon, as opposed to 7% of untreated patients.
Conversely, 16% of the untreated control group worsened
during the study, compared with 2% of the treated group.
   "These are impressive data," said Jordan Gutterman, a
panel member and a pioneer interferon researcher at the
University of Texas's M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. Side
effects consisted mostly of flu-like symptoms including
fatigue and nausea.
   To date, interferon has received approval for use in a
rare cancer known as hairy-cell leukemia, which affects about
2,500 people in the U.S., and in Kaposi's Sarcoma, an
AIDS-related malignancy with a roughly equal number of
patients, Schering said. The FDA has also approved its use in
treating genital warts.
   But analysts said FDA approval for chronic non-A, non-B
hepatitis would expand its potential market at least
five-fold. "We see this as adding another $100 million to
Schering's annual interferon sales," doubling last year's
level, said Michael Sorell, an analyst with Morgan Stanley in
New York. Looking ahead to continuing studies in other
cancers, not to mention in AIDS and hepatitis B, Dr. Sorell
predicted $300 million to $400 million in sales "looks
readily achievable" by 1993 to 1994. In the evolution of
biotechnology, Schering's Dr. Spielgel said, "Interferon is
an interesting story as the pioneering biotech product."
   It may also prove to be a classic case history of the new
biological agents which start small, and expand to fill
larger therapeutic roles as scientific knowledge about their
activity in the body and their potential use expands.
   Interferon was touted in the 1970s as a panacea, only to
prove disappointing and only narrowly useful at first. "A few
years ago, when interleukin-2 made the headlines, people
said: `Interferon -- so what?'" Dr. Spiegel said. "But it's
stood the test of time, and today's action puts us in a whole
new league."
   On Monday, an FDA panel withheld approval from
interleukin-2 as a treatment for kidney cancer, demanding
additional information from its maker, Cetus Corp. of
Emeryville, Calif.
   In a separate action, the FDA advisory panel recommended
that the agency grant Treatment IND (investigational new
drug) status to Immunex Corp.'s GM-CSF product. GHM-CSF is a
blood-cell growth factor that shows promise as a treatment
for bone marrow transplant failure in cancer patients and
those suffering certain kinds of anemia. However, the panel
asked Seattle-based Immunex for more study data before making
a formal recommendation to the FDA on market approval.
   Treatment IND status would make the drug more widely
available free of charge to patients during studies. About
5,000 patients receive bone marrow transplants each year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marriott Sale of Fairfield Inns
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MHS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Marriott Corp. said it completed the sale of
50 Fairfield Inns to the Fairfield Inn by Marriott Limited
Partnership for $235.5 million.
   Marriott, which will continue as manager of the inns and
will be the general partner, said the inns are aimed at the
"economy segment" of the lodging industry. The company said
it anticipates operating more than 300 Fairfield Inns by the
mid-1990s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It currently operates 59 Fairfield Inns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Are Any Cute Guys
   Interviewing for CEO?
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Your exceptional coverage of Donald Trump's financial
imbroglio has fascinated me.
   However, as a professional woman and newly minted Harvard
MBA, I found "Trump Girl: Donald's Latest Venture Is a
Brunette" by Joanne Kaufman (Leisure and Arts, June 26) about
women auditioning as Trump Girl hostesses on the forthcoming
"Trump Card" game show blatantly sexist. The portrayal of
women as blonde and brunette girls who seem to symbolize
sexual triumphs for Mr. Trump degrades all women. Moreover, I
wonder if Mr. Trump and The Wall Street Journal would dare
describe any man in the Trump organization as a boy?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Victoria E. Watkins
   Oakland, Calif.
   ---
   Ms. Kaufman's piece about auditions for the "Trump Girl"
is one of the cutest and slickest bits of writing I've seen
for quite a while. Let's have more from this talented writer.
   Kenneth E. Van Horn
   DeKalb, Ill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Triton Energy to Sell
   Assets, End Dividend
   In Plan to Boost Stock
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   OIL
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Triton Energy Corp., hoping to bolster its
sagging share price, said it will sell assets, reduce debt,
cut overhead and eliminate its current 10-cent quarterly
dividend.
   The company's restructuring is the latest in a series of
moves, which include earlier asset sales and a poison pill
plan adopted in June, to keep raiders at bay. New Zealand
investor Sir Ronald Brierly has accumulated 10.9% of the oil
and gas exploration company and has said he might seek
control.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Triton said it hopes to raise $150 million by selling
aviation operations at nine airports, some of its U.S. oil
and gas interests and its securities portfolio. Triton also
expects to spin off its seismic equipment subsidiary,
Input/Output Inc., in a public stock offering. "The primary
focus of the company will be redirected toward . . . oil and
gas exploration projects," said Chairman William I. Lee.
   The company said it will use the proceeds to reduce
long-term debt. One-time charges related to the sales will
deepen the losses that Triton expects for its fourth quarter
and fiscal year ending May 31.
   The company's losses have battered Triton stock over the
past year. In New York Stock Exchange composite trading
yesterday, Triton shares closed up 25 cents at $11.875.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   TRITON ENERGY Corp. eliminated a 10-cent annual dividend
as part of its restructuring. Yesterday's edition misstated
the amount.
   (WSJ Aug. 2, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Procter &amp; Gamble Co.
   Weighs Expanding
   Plant Near Cincinnati
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PG
</CO>
<IN>
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Procter &amp; Gamble Co. is considering a $200
million expansion of its century-old Ivorydale plant near
this city.
   P&amp;G officials say the soap and detergent plant is one of
several midwestern U.S. plants that could be expanded as part
of its restructuring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Local officials expect the expansion following the
Cincinnati consumer products company's request for a property
tax abatement on $200 million in plant improvements.
   P&amp;G yesterday won a 75% property tax abatement for new
buildings and machinery at the site. The abatement could save
P&amp;G up to $15 million in taxes over 10 years, said David
Main, executive director of Hamilton County Development Co.,
the county's economic development agency.
   A spokeswoman for P&amp;G said the abatement makes the
Ivorydale site competitive with other locations, but
expansion plans aren't official because "there are several
projects under consideration."
   Other P&amp;G sites that could be expanded include laundry and
cleaning products plants in Alexandria, La., and Augusta,
Ga., or a peanut-butter plant in Lexington, Ky. P&amp;G could
choose to build a plant at another site, according to a
company spokeswoman.
   It's unclear whether the Ivorydale expansion will include
new products or simply shift production from other plants
that P&amp;G plans to close.
   For instance, P&amp;G has announced plans to close its Port
Ivory plant in Staten Island, N.Y. That plant employs 425
people and makes soaps, detergents and cleaners.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Radium Water
   Worked Fine Until
   His Jaw Came Off
   ---
   Cancer Researcher Unearths
   A Bizarre Tale of Medicine
   And Roaring '20s Society
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   In 1927, a steel mogul and socialite named Eben MacBurney
Byers tumbled from the top berth of his private Pullman
compartment en route home to New York from the Harvard-Yale
football game. He was apparently engaged in some vigorous
post-game revelry at the time.
   What happened next led ultimately to his gruesome death 4
1/2 years later -- and to his place as a central character in
a bizarre episode in U.S. medicine.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The saga of Mr. Byers is the subject of a report in
today's Journal of the American Medical Association. While it
has timely implications for contemporary medicine, it also
provides an evocative look at a period in medicine before
regulators and lawyers spoiled the fun.
   "Byers was the personification of the Roaring '20s," says
Roger M. Macklis, principal author of the report and a
radiation oncologist at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute in
Boston and the Harvard Joint Center for Radiation Therapy.
"He was into everything."
   The chairman of A.M. Byers Steel Co. and a director of
Westinghouse Electric &amp; Manufacturing, Mr. Byers was also a
U.S. amateur golf champion, a horse racing enthusiast and, by
reputation, an ardent ladies' man.
   Dr. Macklis's interest in Mr. Byers was provoked in part
by the doctor's acquisition late in 1989 of four mostly empty
bottles of a patent medicine called Radithor. It was a status
drink: At $1 a bottle, only the well-to-do could easily
afford it. And it was a health drink -- marketed by an
entrepreneur named William J.A. Bailey, it promised to cure
more than 150 maladies.
   Mostly, Mr. Bailey sold it as an aphrodisiac. "Improved
blood supply sent to the pelvic organs and tonic effects upon
the nervous system generally result in a great improvement in
the sex organs," touted a pamphlet entitled "Radithor, the
New Weapon of Medical Science," which was mailed to doctors
in the mid-1920s.
   Radithor's magic ingredient was radium. The concoction
rode the crest of the Mild Radium Therapy movement, a
phenomenon in U.S. social circles shortly after the Curies
discovered radium at the turn of the century. It was based on
the premise that radiation, taken in minute doses, provided a
metabolic kick to the body's endocrine system and infused
depleted organs with energy.
   Dr. Macklis says Mr. Bailey "was a born con man" who had
been peddling various miracle cures, especially for
impotence, for years. But none achieved the success of
Radithor, an over-the-counter tonic he asserted was the
result of years of laboratory research, but which was really
just distilled water laced with one microcurie each of two
isotopes of radium.
   He sold more than 400,000 bottles for $1 each -- a 400%
profit, says Dr. Macklis, adding: "He was the chief
impresario in the radioactive patent medicine field."
   Mr. Byers was 47 when he fell out of the berth and injured
his arm. Over the next several weeks, he complained of
muscular aches and a run-down feeling that undermined his
performance both athletic and, it was rumored, sexual, Dr.
Macklis reports. A Pittsburgh physiotherapist recommended
Radithor.
   For the next two years, Mr. Byers gulped two or three
bottles a day. His activities while under its influence
aren't well documented. But initially, he was apparently so
satisfied with the results that he sent cases of it to
business partners and girlfriends, and even fed it to his
race horses.
   The science of the day gave at least a measure of support
to Mr. Byers's faith in radium water. And U.S. regulatory
agencies at the time were more concerned about truth in
advertising than about potential harmful effects. The Federal
Trade Commission, for instance, took action against makers of
potions that lacked advertised levels of radioactivity.
   Over two years, Mr. Byers guzzled perhaps 1,400 half-ounce
bottles of the potion, Dr. Macklis says. He finally quit in
October 1930, complaining to his doctor then that he'd lost
"that toned-up feeling." He began to lose weight and
experience headaches; many of his teeth fell out.
   By 1930, the FTC had begun to raise questions about
another advertised claim of radium-water medicines: that they
were harmless. It asked Mr. Byers to testify at hearings in
1931, but by then he was too sick. An agency lawyer
dispatched to take his statement at his mansion on Long
Island was aghast.
   Mr. Byers's "whole upper jaw, excepting two front teeth,
and most of his lower jaw had been removed," the lawyer
reported. "All the remaining bone tissue of his body was
disintegrating, and holes were actually forming in his
skull."
   By the end of the year, the FTC ordered Mr. Bailey's
operations closed. And on March 31, 1932, Mr. Byers died in a
New York City hospital. He was 51. The next day, a front-page
headline in the New York Times proclaimed the medical
examiner's initial autopsy findings: Mr. Byers died of radium
poisoning.
   The news alarmed some members of the upper class, although
James J. Walker, then mayor of New York City and an avowed
user of radium water, at first resisted warnings to stop. In
Pittsburgh, there were whispers in the press that a lady
friend of Mr. Byers had also died of a mysterious ailment.
Health officials in some cities ordered store shelves cleared
of such potions. And some doctors stepped forward with
evidence of other cases. A doctor went on a New York radio
program and held radioactive bones of one victim in front of
a Geiger counter to demonstrate "the deadly sound of radium,"
Dr. Macklis says.
   Dr. Macklis bought his bottles of Radithor from a dealer
in medical antiques; he's not saying how much he paid. Then
he and two colleagues at the Harvard Joint Center, Marc R.
Bellerive and John L. Humm, conducted a radiochemical
analysis of the Radithor. It confirmed that Radithor was
laced with significant amounts of radium isotopes.
   Using a complex computer program, the scientists
reconstructed the radium's life cycle through dozens of
generations as it decayed to form new isotopes, and
calculated the level of Mr. Byers's exposure. "He took enough
radium to kill four people if he took it all at once," Dr.
Macklis says. "The mystery is how did Byers survive so long,
feeling so good, and have such a super-lethal burden in his
body?"
   He speculates that despite Mr. Byers's macabre demise, it
is possible that chronic, low-level doses of powerful "alpha"
radiation really do have at least a temporary stimulative
effect, probably by provoking a defensive response that
triggers production of fresh blood cells within the bone
marrow.
   Dr. Macklis and his colleagues also believe if alpha
radiation could be safely harnessed, it could become a
precise medical weapon that would attack cancerous cells
without damaging nearby healthy tissue. Two years ago, Dr.
Macklis succeeded in accomplishing that in mice.
   It was his search for information on the impact of alpha
radiation on people that led Dr. Macklis to the lost story of
Mr. Byers, which he pieced together from medical literature,
press accounts and historical documents.
   In the end, Mr. Byers's death caused the collapse of the
radioactive patent medicine industry. But all along, Mr.
Bailey insisted that his potion was safe. After all, he said,
he had probably drunk more Radithor than anyone else, and he
felt fine.
   Nearly 20 years after Mr. Bailey's death in 1949 of
bladder cancer, medical researchers exhumed his remains. They
had been ravaged by radiation. They were still "hot" when
pulled from the ground.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Xerox Profit
   Declined 27%
   In 2nd Quarter
   ----
   By Lawrence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   XRX XXC.B
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Xerox Corp. said profit dropped 27% in the second quarter,
but the company produced some encouraging results in both its
major business areas.
   Most of the profit lag came from two factors, Xerox said:
Austerity measures imposed by the government of Brazil, where
the company sells a lot of copiers, and lower capital gains
at its Crum &amp; Forster Inc. insurance subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts focused, however, on indicators they consider
more fundamental to the company's financial health, such as
gross margins, expense control and Crum &amp; Forster's "combined
ratio," a measure of the insurer's financial state -- all of
which moved in the right direction.
   Excluding the Brazilian results, Xerox's profit from
office equipment advanced a robust 19% from the year-ago
period. And Xerox signaled that the company's recent
disastrous performance in financial services -- the business
contributed only $2 million in profit during the quarter, a
96% drop -- may finally be bottoming out.
   "There are some things going on here that could make Xerox
look attractive," said Eugene Glazer of Dean Witter Reynolds
Inc. "I'm not yet convinced, but they seem to be doing a lot
of the right things."
   For the quarter, Xerox reported net income of $130
million, or $1.16 a share, compared with $179 million, or
$1.67 a share, in the year-ago period. Revenue rose 3%, to
$4.52 billion from $4.38 billion.
   Those results came in below analysts' predictions, which
averaged about $1.25 a share, but estimates were so
scattershot and unsure that the disappointment wasn't
meaningful. Xerox's much-battered stock took a 25-cent drop
at the start of trading, but recovered to close at $45.625,
up 50 cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   "I think this stock is as burned out as it's going to
get," said Alex Henderson of Prudential-Bache Securities
Inc., who raised his rating on Xerox to a "buy" yesterday.
"There were some very nice numbers this quarter, and I'm
optimistic about the second half."
   That optimism was shared by most Xerox watchers, but
tempered by Xerox's poor track record in recent years,
sluggish revenue growth and leeriness about a major
new-product push slated for this fall.
   Peter Enderlin of Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. said he
cut his estimate of Xerox's 1990 earnings to $4.90 from
$5.10, excluding write-offs, and is maintaining his "hold"
rating. Still, he has started advising clients to buy the
stock "on weakness."
   But Daniel Mandresh of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., who predicts
Xerox will earn between $4 and $4.50 this year, remains
unconvinced. "I'm absolutely impressed by how Xerox has
controlled its expenses, but I look at the top line first,"
he said. "I don't see any reason to adjust my thinking yet."
   For the first half, Xerox posted a loss of $124 million,
or $1.77 a share, compared with a profit of $337 million, or
$3.14 a share, in 1989. The 1990 results include a
first-quarter write-off of $375 million for bad real estate
investments. Revenue rose 3%, to $8.77 billion from $8.52
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Some Southwestern Real Estate
   Is, Unfortunately, a Liquid Asset
   ----
   By Junda Woo
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (INR)
</GV>
<LP>
   Along the Red River, people always knew where they stood;
north was Oklahoma, south was Texas.
   But soon, that may not be so.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The problem is that the river is a wanderer, shifting
course every time it floods -- which it often does.
   When the river overflowed in 1987, for instance, its
shifting course took 140 acres belonging to Thomas Henderson,
a Byers, Texas, farmer, and moved it to Oklahoma from Texas.
With the border relocated, the land no longer belonged to Mr.
Henderson. His Oklahoma neighbors filed a lawsuit to claim
it, but the courts, reviewing deeds and historical records,
handed it instead to the U.S. Bureau of Land Management,
which owned land nearby.
   The imbroglio didn't matter much to Mr. Henderson's bank,
which didn't see fit to excise the land from Mr. Henderson's
loan. He pays the bank $13,000 a year for those vanished
acres. "It's really kind of a joke," the beleaguered Mr.
Henderson says. "If you weren't financially involved, you'd
have to laugh at it, really."
   But now the Bureau of Land Management is pushing a plan to
set a fixed border that would ignore the shifting river.
Instead, the line would be determined by latitudes and
longitudes. The plan requires the support of both states and
approval by the U.S. Congress. Next week, a committee of
Oklahoma lawmakers is scheduled to begin discussing the
issue.
   Farmers seem pleased with the plan. "Wherever they put it
is fine with me, so long as it's set," says Charles
McCullough, a cattle rancher in Devol, Okla., who at various
times has owned as few as 450 acres and as many as 600 acres
on the north side of the river.
   Past efforts to set a permanent border have been easier
said than done. Since 1819, the two states have considered
the river's south bank the border. Unfortunately, both Texas
and Oklahoma have used sharply different surveying methods,
with nobody agreeing on the exact location of the south bank.
   In 1987, Texas thought it had a solution. It proudly
marked off the south bank with stakes to show officials from
both states. When unveiled the next day, however, the stakes
were about 100 feet off the mark -- and under water. During
the night, the fickle river had shifted again.
   "It was a pretty graphic demonstration," says Paul Tanner,
area manager for the Bureau of Land Management.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Banker-Yatchsman Steers Many Courses
   ---
   New Zealand's Fay Has
   Financial, Sailing Goals
   ----
   By Karene Witcher
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   AUCKLAND, New Zealand -- It was about 1 a.m. on an April
morning when a phone call from his lawyer woke Michael Fay
with bad news. A New York court had just dashed his dream of
possessing the America's Cup and bringing fame and fortune to
Auckland and New Zealand as host of the next regatta.
   The dream had driven the yachting upstart through nearly
three years of legal wrangling, and cost him and his
secretive investment bank, Fay, Richwhite Holdings Ltd., tens
of millions of dollars. A chunk of the money went to
constructing the New Zealand, the biggest racing yacht built
in 50 years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Come 1992, the dogged New Zealander, who confesses to
becoming queasy on sailboats, will be at it again with
another boat. Why? "Unfinished business," he says. This time
he'll be mounting the challenge as Sir Michael, having been
knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in June "for services to
merchant banking and yachting."
   The 41-year-old investment banker has challenges ahead on
land as well as at sea. He and his partner, David Richwhite,
are in the midst of a controversial plan to sell their
closely held banking interests to a publicly listed
subsidiary in New Zealand. The proposal set off a storm of
criticism over the amount the two entrepreneurs are demanding
for their holding.
   The plan to sell Fay Richwhite's investment-banking
operations to its 63%-owned finance subsidiary, Capital
Markets Ltd., is aimed at "positioning" the bank for the next
decade, Sir Michael says. Fay Richwhite has operated "very
successfully for 16 years, but there's a limit to what you
can do as a private company," he adds.
   The son of an insurance executive, Sir Michael founded
what later became Fay Richwhite in 1974 with less than 5,000
New Zealand dollars (US$2,955) and an overdraft. His career
path included stints as a sheepshearer and truck driver. In
college, where he earned a reputation for partying, he
operated New Zealand's first mobile disco.
   Still, he got a law degree and practiced for five months
before trying work in a local bank. But he was soon fired for
being a "disruptive influence" after suggesting the bank's
senior management was incompetent. (The bank, he notes with a
smirk, has since folded.)
   Within days, he had set up shop in Auckland and attracted
a former bank colleague and accountant, Mr. Richwhite, now 42
years old, to join him.
   Besides investment-banking operations in New Zealand,
Australia and London, Fay Richwhite controls, through its
Capital Markets unit, 29.5% of Bank of New Zealand, a major
commercial bank. It acquired the stake last year for NZ$300
million; the government retains 51%, and the rest is publicly
traded. In June, Fay Richwhite agreed to take a small stake
in Telecom Corp., the state-owned telephone company that was
sold for NZ$4.25 billion to a consortium led by Ameritech and
Bell Atlantic Corp., both U.S. regional telephone concerns.
Fay Richwhite also acted as a consortium adviser on the
arrangement, the country's biggest commercial transaction.
   In the past five years, the two founders have allowed
three young New Zealand men to buy into the partnership, but
Sir Michael and Mr. Richwhite retain control of about 75% of
the company.
   Insiders say Fay Richwhite really blossomed when New
Zealand's Labor Party government deregulated the financial
markets in the mid-1980s. "We seemed to excel in that
process," says William Birnie, a partner who manages the
firm's Wellington offices. "We were young. We were working
longer hours. We had 7:30 breakfasts. We didn't go out for
lunch. . . . People laughed about this."
   The bank shunned making loans and instead focused on such
areas as trading domestic bonds and financial futures and
fee-income transactions including arranging finance for
clients in ways that minimize tax. The corporate culture is
still one of early staff meetings and late evenings, hard
work, company-provided meals -- and high-class entertainment,
such as a blacktie dinner the Wellington office recently
threw for 120 top clients, using the in-house chef.
   Like the two founding partners, most of Fay Richwhite's
220-member office staff are either lawyers or accountants.
The partners sit at plain tables on the trading floor
surrounded by their respective teams. Sir Michael and Mr.
Richwhite also have posh offices in their pink-granite and
glass Auckland headquarters equipped with massive desks hewn
from North African rock so "we can look the part," Sir
Michael says. The stone is flecked with the fossils of tiny
prehistoric creatures -- but there isn't so much as a paper
clip on either desk.
   Competitors say Fay Richwhite is variously: shrewd and
arrogant; aggressive and expensive; flexible and flashy --
down to its glossy brochures -- but furtive; long on
marketing hype but sometimes short on performance.
   The bank expanded in 1983 to Australia, where it has a
reputation for attracting bright staff. Jim Tate, who heads
the national fixed-interest department at Westpac Banking
Corp. in Sydney, says that while he regards Fay Richwhite as
"quite a capable" participant in the local markets, in some
circles the firm has "always had a smell they are a
fly-by-night."
   Mark Dunphy, a partner who heads the Australian
operations, says the bank has made money in Australia every
year since 1983, and Sir Michael says Australia now generates
more profit than New Zealand, where he claims Fay Richwhite
is the No. 1 investment bank in terms of "market
penetration." (Competitors dispute the claim, noting that the
point is difficult to quantify.)
   Critics and supporters alike agree that, from all
appearances, Fay Richwhite is highly profitable and has made
its owners two of the richest men in New Zealand. Sir Michael
won't talk about his personal wealth, which the country's
National Business Review newspaper puts at a minimum of
NZ$170 million.
   Because the figures are so closely guarded, few people had
any idea how profitable Fay Richwhite's investment-banking
operations were until April, when the company disclosed its
banking-related profits as part of the proposed merger.
According to the figures, those operations earned an average
annual pretax profit of NZ$38 million in the past four years,
peaking at NZ$52 million in 1988. Fay Richwhite projects
pretax profit for the year ending March 31, 1991, at NZ$42.8
million.
   Sir Michael describes his bank as "pretty conservative"
and "risk averse." But competitors and others say the firm
has run a high-risk profile over the years, particularly by
taking equity stakes in projects. That willingness
"differentiates them from people who either aren't able to do
it or won't" invest, says Andrew Meehan, chief executive of
Southpac Corp., one of Fay Richwhite's biggest rivals in New
Zealand.
   Meanwhile, Sir Michael is plotting his next run at the
America's Cup. Although a nation of yachtsmen, New Zealand
didn't pay much attention to the America's Cup until
Australia's Alan Bond won it away from the Americans in 1983
for the first time in its 132-year history.
   "Once it was in Australia, it was just too much to believe
that New Zealand wouldn't have a go" at it, Sir Michael says.
With him at the helm, the nation came tantalizingly close in
its maiden run at the 1987 races in Perth.
   Shortly after the 1987 races, won by the San Diego Yacht
Club, Sir Michael challenged San Diego to a race -- with
giant yachts. San Diego declined. That led to a legal fray
over the interpretation of the rules governing America's Cup
races and eventually to San Diego beating Sir Michael's big
boat with a catamaran. Sir Michael cried mismatch and got a
U.S. court to agree to give him the cup. After a series of
appeals, it all ended in late April when San Diego was
declared the rightful holder of the cup.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Passes, 424-4, Bill to Stimulate
   Pursuit and Punishment of S&amp;L Crime
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House, anticipating voter anger over the
expanding savings-and-loan mess, overwhelmingly approved
legislation aimed at invigorating the investigation and
prosecution of thrift-related crime.
   The bill, which passed 424-4, would increase maximum
prison terms for S&amp;L offenses and would make it a federal
crime to conceal assets from the receiver of a failed thrift
or to obstruct a government examiner. The legislation also
would authorize greatly increased funding over the next three
years to hire hundreds of additional investigators and
prosecutors specifically to handle fraud cases involving
financial institutions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bill includes provisions that would vastly expand the
government's civil authority to freeze or take over assets of
those suspected of S&amp;L fraud.
   Focusing on the imminent summer recess and election-year
constituent meetings, representative after representative
rose to declare that the bill would help "put the S&amp;L crooks
in jail."
   Rep. Charles Schumer (D., N.Y.), who caught some of his
colleagues by surprise when he hastily introduced the measure
under a suspension of normal House procedures, called it "an
effective blueprint" to "bring S&amp;L criminals to justice."
   In fact, none of the bill's criminal provisions would
apply retroactively. That means that the increased prison
terms and new categories of federal crimes couldn't be used
against anyone associated with the S&amp;L debacle of the 1980s.
Moreover, the bill would create redundant criminal statutes
covering acts already prosecutable under existing law,
according to Justice Department officials and defense
lawyers.
   Rep. Henry Gonzalez (D., Texas), one of the four
dissenters in the vote, complained that the measure hadn't
been sufficiently debated and was being rushed through the
House because of "election-year fears." Lawmakers, he
contended, "are very zealously eager to prove that we want to
get these crooks in jail."
   The Senate has approved S&amp;L-related enforcement provisions
with goals similar to those of the House bill but some
differences in the mechanics. The Bush administration has
backed some of the congressional proposals but strongly
opposes a provision in the House bill that would create a
bipartisan investigative commission to study the causes of
the thrift crisis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Spelling Beez Would
   Never Be the Same
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Amity Shlaes's (Shlaziz) ardikl about the French chrying 2
rerite ther langwidge n 2 spelling wurdz egzakli lik tha soun
seemz lik a gud idea (editorial page, Joon 27). Jus think,
awl children hoo lurn 2 reed an spel fonetikli kud pronouns
an spel nyeerli inny wurd tha c without evn noing hwot it
meenz. Awlso, ther wud b fyew argyumints or gisadreemints (I
meen disagreemintz) kunserning how a wurd iz pronounsd or
speld.
   Anuthr idea iz 2 develup a kod that nonfonik tip peepl kud
not komprehin. That iz, revurs leterz or silabls from wun
wurd to anuthr n yur sintens. For egzampl, this paragraf's
furst sintens wud reed: Inuthr adea iz 2 kevelup a dod that
fon-nonic pip teepl nud kot pomkrehin. B kairfl tho bkawz u
mit kreat sum awf kulr fraziz an sounz. I don't no if enuf
peepl wud do this but it kan kreat sum inchresting sounz and
wurdz (or wounz and surdz).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   No madr hwot itz stil sorda fun and thanx for a
thawt-provoking pees of wurk (or wees of purk).
   Troy Mohon
   Birmingham, Ala.
   ---
   I kant tell u how aksited I wuz reeding Miss Schlaes's
artikal about Frnch. I bin reeding the Jurnul over 50 yrs
sints leeving MIT '33 and allwaze fined the best kultral stuf
ther. I mene in the Jurnul.
   William B. Klee
   Hilton Head Island, S.C.
   ---
   I was very pleezed with Miss Shlaes's riteup. It is hi
time sumbuddy took a hand in this nashun's nooze reporting.
Take aborshun. If I wuz a girl I'd due as I dam well pleezed.
Take the rite to di. I'm 77. My heering aid buzzes. My false
teeth don't fit rite. Roomatism keeps me awake haff the nite.
   I got a 38 speshul in the bottom drore. I intend to use it
while I still can if I see peepul are gonna hook me up to a
bunch of masheens]
   Thank you, Miss Shlaes. Shlayese? Shless? Keep wurking at
The Wall Stret Jurnul and riting more peeces for us]
   Frank Harvey
   Hackettstown, N.J.
   ---
   Regarding the Shlaes peece: Enuf alreddy]
   Rand M. Curtiss
   Beachwood, Ohio
   ---
   Miss Shlaes: U r sew whys] Bee-SIDES, u r eh
Lynn-goo-IS-tick tore-NEIGH-dough. Eye dew add-MIRE
inn-TELL-e-gent, SIN-till-ATE-inn FEE-males MUTE-ill-ATE-inn
FRAN-says' SOUP-ere-SILLY-us mails. Inn there LAND-goo-edge,
"Shut dot door, MONA-Moor]"
   Panos D. Bardis
   ED-eat-ore; Saw-see-ALL-oh-jest
   University of Toledo
   Toledo, Ohio
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Accord Is Reached
   On Restructuring
   Of Interco's Debt
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel and George Anders
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   ISS
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Interco Inc. said it reached "basic agreement" with
representatives of its bondholders and banks to restructure
its $1.9 billion in debt, averting at least for now a
bankruptcy-law filing.
   The troubled St. Louis furniture and footwear company,
which had threatened to seek bankruptcy-court protection if
it couldn't otherwise restructure its debt, didn't disclose
terms of the pact. It said only that discussions were
continuing and it expected to announce "shortly" details of
an agreement in principle.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But an individual involved in the negotiations, which ran
through the night Monday, said the major change involves an
agreement by the banks to a "more relaxed" payment schedule
than Interco had originally proposed. It calls for smaller
payments in earlier years and gives the company more time to
rebuild itself, the individual said.
   To appease creditors, Interco management also agreed to
consider selling its Converse athletic-shoe unit if Interco
isn't able to meet its new debt-repayment targets. As
recently as June, Interco had talked of Converse as a core
business that wouldn't be sold. "It's the company's belief
that they won't have to sell Converse," another person
involved in the talks said. "But the rest of the world thinks
Converse could go."
   Holders of the company's medium-term notes, which predate
the 1988 recapitalization that caused Interco's current cash
crunch, received assurances they would get paid on schedule
over the next three years, the individual added. And he said
holders of "junk" securities issued in Interco's 1988
recapitalization agreed to exchange their bonds for stock
plus some new debt securities that would pay a "modest"
amount of interest in cash, starting in 1993. Interco had
originally proposed an exchange offer that would give these
bondholders stock and convertible bonds.
   The bondholders had resisted becoming stockholders in a
weak company that could later slide into bankruptcy. But they
were also understood to be satisfied that the company's cash
flow could support the new bank-payment schedule.
   Interco's debt plan was seen as good news in the bond
market. Late yesterday, Interco's 8 7/8% medium-term notes
were quoted at 76 cents on the dollar, up about 10% from the
previous day's prices. Interco's 13 3/4% senior subordinated
debentures rose to 25 cents on the dollar, from 23.75 cents
Monday. Even Interco's stock inched up slightly, to 37.5
cents a share, up 3.125 cents, in composite New York Stock
Exchange trading.
   Interco, which makes Lane and Broyhill furniture and
Converse and Florsheim shoes, has been staggering under a
heavy debt load since late 1988, when it paid big dividends
in cash and junk securities to fend off a raider. In May, it
proposed a plan that would have canceled much of the
junk-bond debt and let holders own 70% of the company's stock
instead. The company also threatened a bankruptcy-law filing
if the bondholders failed to agree to the plan.
   Interco still could wind up in bankruptcy court if the new
debt-swap offer isn't approved by as many as 95% of the
holders of each class of bonds. But the agreement reached
yesterday increases the chances that it could pursue a
"prepackaged" bankruptcy reorganization plan, if necessary.
   Under such an arrangement, any debt swap would require the
approval by holders of only two-thirds of each class of
bonds, the company has said. Interco could then make the debt
swap mandatory for all bondholders, something it couldn't do
without a bankruptcy filing. That would avoid thorny problems
associated with holdout bondholders.
   Interco's advisers also say that the prepackaged
bankruptcy option would let Interco emerge from bankruptcy
proceedings within six months -- a far shorter time than the
two years or more that most companies spend in court.
   The talks, which began Friday at the New York law offices
of Debevoise &amp; Plimpton and continued in fits and starts
through the weekend, came to a head Monday. That's when
Interco was scheduled to make a bank interest payment of
roughly $10 million, individuals familiar with the situation
said. The missed payment raised the chances that creditors
would file an involuntary bankruptcy petition. Interco had
already defaulted on payments to its holders of its
high-risk, high-yield junk bonds and medium-term note
holders.
   Interco said the steering committee of its banks agreed to
unanimously recommend that all principal and interest
payments be deferred through Oct. 1. An individual familiar
with the company's financial position said Interco would have
run out of cash this month if it had made the bank interest
payment on Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Immigration Is No Open-and-Shut Case
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   In response to your July 3 editorial-page article "Through
the Open Door: What Is It Like to Be an Immigrant in
America?" Of the immigrants interviewed, eight were from
other than an English-speaking country. Of these eight, five
made comments worth reviewing for the reasons they came to
America. These are shortened and excerpted as follows:
   1. ". . . Hitler would invade Switzerland."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   2. ". . . from Nazi Germany in 1937."
   3. ". . . fleeing Castro and his communist thugs."
   4. ". . . the Nazis broke into our house."
   5. ". . . for the same reasons as everyone."
   The thought occurred to me that these people's families
had some place to come to in order to escape totalitarianism.
   If America loses its freedoms, where would the immigrants
of today go?
   A.R. Patten Jr.
   Arvada, Colo.
   ---
   Your article hardly shows an awareness of, or sensitivity
to, the broad spectrum of immigrants who make up the
diversity of the U.S. population.
   Contrary to your statement, virtually every American does
not know where he or she comes "from." The largest part of
the American black population, involuntary immigrants whose
families were torn apart before and after they reached our
shores, cannot trace where they come from (or can do so only
with great difficulty and diligence).
   I realize the thrust of your article was statements by 13
naturalized prominent Americans and was not meant to be
representative. I respect your right to make an editorial
judgment. However, why five Germans and three Canadians out
of a group of 13 "immigrants"? (If you count the British-born
Bob Hope and Swiss-born Madeleine Kunin, that is two more
white Anglo-Saxon types in the top-heavy majority.) Where are
the Asians, Italians and Latin Americans who contribute so
heavily to the monetary and cultural wealth of our country?
There must be a few who are "prominent."
   Lucy Brody
   Teaneck, N.J.
   ---
   I was puzzled by your selection. Note the following
breakdown:
   -- Five German-born
   -- Three Canadian-born
   -- Three other European-born
   -- Two Caribbean-born
   -- All Judeo-Christians
   No Oriental-born, no South American-born, no African-born.
Also, no representatives of large immigration countries such
as Ireland and Italy.
   The professional breakdown also puzzles me:
   -- Seven politicians
   -- Two artists
   -- Three academics
   -- One business person
   Are you saying America is the land of political, rather
than business opportunity? That artists and capitalists are
less relevant to our country's development?
   Alain M. Breyton
   Immigrant-Entrepreneur
   Syracuse, N.Y.
   ---
   May I point out that nearly every one of the immigrants in
the article came to this country when the door was not quite
so open, because certain standards of decency and selectivity
were applied.
   For the benefit of those too young to remember them, let
me enumerate the three principal requirements for admission:
   1) You had to prove that you would not become a public
charge within the foreseeable future, either by being
personally solvent or by obtaining an affidavit of support
from a responsible and solvent person.
   2) You had to give evidence of a clean criminal record in
every country where you had resided before coming to the U.S.
   3) You had to produce a medical certificate that you were
not afflicted with any contagious or disabling disease.
   In other words, we had an immigration policy in those
days.
   Paul G. Kafka
   Bellevue, Wash.
   ---
   The immigration experience also includes the
African-Americans. We, too, know and remember that our
ancestors were from a foreign land. We, too, have been
transplanted, although not by choice. The only difference is
that we were never entitled to a naturalization ceremony. Too
bad you didn't choose some African-Americans to tell about
their or their relatives' immigration experiences -- they
would have a very different story. The weight of slavery's
shackles will never leave our memories.
   Mikiko Murakata
   Neptune, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Pace Mocker
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some retirees serve on boards;
   Some pursue active hobbies;
   Some retirees do volunteer work;
   Some join political lobbies.
   Some retirees attend reunions
   At companies where they were hired;
   (The frantic pace of some retirees
   Simply makes me tired])
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   ---
   The Annual Meeting
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was high against the yen;
   Parts were delivered late;
   There was pressure on our profits again,
   But everything is great.
   -- Richard F. Barrett.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler's Net
   Plunged 47%
   In 2nd Quarter
   ---
   Cost-Cutting and Strength
   Of Financial Subsidiary
   Helped to Prevent a Loss
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. said second-quarter
earnings skidded 47% from a year ago, and would have plunged
into a loss without aggressive cost-cutting and surging
results from financial services.
   The No. 3 U.S. auto maker said it had net income of $180
million, or 81 cents a share, in the period. That compares
with net of $341 million, or $1.46 a share, a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chrysler's second-quarter 1990 results included one-time
charges of $22 million for canceling plans to build a small
Jeep with French auto maker Regie Nationale des Usines
Renault, and $13 million paid to some union employees who
took early retirement. Analysts said the charges cut
Chrysler's second-quarter earnings by about 10 cents a share.
   The 1989 second-quarter earnings included a gain of $8
million, or four cents a share, from Gulfstream Aerospace
Corp., a unit Chrysler sold earlier this year.
   Chrysler's second-quarter profit, while paper thin, showed
that the company's efforts to eliminate $1.5 billion in
operating costs are bearing fruit. Chrysler trimmed $250
million from second-quarter pretax operating costs compared
with a year ago, while pretax savings in the first six months
of the year reached $470 million. These figures are slightly
ahead of the company's goals.
   Meanwhile, net income at the company's Chrysler Financial
Corp. subsidiary leaped 49% to a second-quarter record of $85
million. Chrysler Financial attributed the increase to higher
interest-rate margins and gains from the sale of receivables.
   Without the cost-cutting success and the record
contribution from financial services, Chrysler would have
shown an after-tax loss of $55 million, analysts said.
   That's largely because the company sold fewer cars and
trucks while spending substantially more on buyer incentives
for each sale.
   Jerome B. York, Chrysler's executive vice president,
finance, said the company spent an average of $1,200 per
vehicle on incentives in the second quarter, compared to just
$700 a year earlier. John A. Casesa, an analyst with Wertheim
Schroder &amp; Co. in New York, estimated the higher incentives
cost Chrysler about $130 million, or 55 cents to 60 cents a
share.
   Despite this extra spending, Chrysler pushed about 110,000
fewer vehicles out the doors of dealer showrooms, a decline
of 16%. Chrysler sold 585,615 vehicles in the quarter
compared with 695,552 a year earlier.
   The auto maker blamed one-fourth of that decline on the
loss of the Dodge Omni and Plymouth Horizon subcompact cars.
Chrysler stopped making those aged models in January after
their sales had fallen by more than 60%.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Chrysler stock closed unchanged at $15.125.
   Although Chrysler finished the first six months of the
year with a negative cash flow of about $400 million, it
strengthened its actual cash holdings. Chrysler did this by
selling off its Gulfstream unit and by completing the $1.1
billion sale and leaseback of the Chrysler Technology Center
still under construction in Auburn Hills, Mich.
   As a result of those deals, Chrysler had $4.3 billion in
cash and marketable securities on June 30, compared with $3.4
billion a year earlier and $2.1 billion at the end of last
year. Mr. York told analysts in a meeting yesterday that
Chrysler can raise an additional $2.5 billion by selling
"assets not related to the automotive business" and $1.6
billion by not funding its pensions in the next two years.
   Chrysler has a total unfunded pension liability of $2.8
billion. But Mr. York told analysts that Chrysler has been
whittling down the balance, and thus could skip its planned
pension-fund payments of $800 million a year for 1990 and
1991 if that becomes necessary. But he described that as a
"worst-case scenario" and added that Chrysler expects to fund
its product-development programs without resorting to that
step.
   "It's a cloudy picture at Chrysler," said Mr. Casesa.
"They're walking a tightrope there now, but they seem to be
getting their finances in order to become a lean and mean
organization like they were before" acquiring American Motors
Corp. in 1987.
   Chrysler's earnings fell within the range expected by
industry analysts. But analysts said Mr. York hinted
yesterday that the company expects a third-quarter loss
larger than the consensus 53 cents-a-share loss predicted by
analysts and closer to the worst estimate of a 79
cents-a-share loss.
   Chrysler will suffer a third-quarter loss partly because
it is closing the St. Louis and Windsor, Ontario, assembly
plants that build its most profitable vehicles, minivans, for
four weeks to retool for the 1991 models coming out this
fall. Scott Merlis, an analyst with Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.,
estimates Chrysler will lose about $177 million in after-tax
profit from the lost minivan production alone.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Continues Steady Descent
   Toward a Low Against Mark
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Burdened by expectations of lower U.S.
interest rates and a slowing economy, the dollar continued
its steady descent toward a record low against the mark.
   In late New York trading, the dollar stood at 1.5869
marks, well below 1.6041 marks late Monday. The U.S. currency
also fell to 145.80 yen from 147.83 yen Monday. Meanwhile,
the British pound rose to $1.8640 from $1.8470.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was quoted
at 146 yen; it closed in Tokyo Tuesday at 147.50 yen.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about 1.5893
marks, down from Tokyo's Tuesday close of 1.6075 marks.
   In intraday trading yesterday, the dollar slipped as low
as 1.5850 marks, just above its post-World War II low of
1.5615 marks set Jan. 4, 1988, according to records at the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
   Interest rates abroad have been rising recently to the
point where they are comparable to or even higher than U.S.
rates. That situation lowers the allure of dollar-denominated
investments to speculators and international investors.
   In addition, the dollar is being pulled down by the large
U.S. budget and trade deficits, as well as the growing cost
of the savings-and-loan bailout.
   Traders said that yesterday's fall accelerated when the
dollar fell through the 1.60-mark level, an important support
level on charts that many traders use to forecast currency
movements. Trading was relatively thin, however.
   Nonetheless, the dollar could bounce back by the end of
August to around 1.6045 marks, according to the average
forecasts in a recent poll of 10 economists and foreign
exchange traders in New York, London, Frankfurt and Tokyo. By
the end of October, the dollar is expected to firm further to
1.6085 marks, according to the average forecast.
   Against its Japanese counterpart, the dollar is expected
to be slightly stronger at 148.03 yen at the end of August
and 148.30 yen at the end of October.
   The rebound won't be especially vigorous because of the
same factors that were at work in the market yesterday and
recently. A further easing of U.S. monetary policy isn't
expected to occur in August, said the majority of experts
surveyed by Dow Jones International News Service, and the
dollar is expected to benefit slightly in the short term from
continuing instability in the Soviet Union, higher oil prices
and a likely technical rebound in reaction to the currency's
recent drop.
   Unification euphoria continues to make dollar-mark rate
forecasts tenuous, many survey participants said. For the
third month in a row, the consensus calls for a stronger
dollar against the mark -- but the June and July forecasts
for the U.S. currency proved far too optimistic.
   A month ago, when the dollar was trading around 1.6607
marks and 152.10 yen, a similar monthly survey foresaw the
dollar firmer at 1.6910 marks and 154.30 yen by the end of
July. At the beginning of May, the average forecasts for the
dollar's end-of-July levels were 1.70 marks and 158.88 yen.
   Traders said yesterday that further increases in the yen
could be delayed by problems in the Tokyo stock market as
well as rising oil prices. Japan is wholly dependent on
imports of oil, which are priced in dollars.
   Irwin Kellner, senior vice president and chief economist
at Manufacturers Hanover Trust in New York, said trade-based
logic would dictate a stronger dollar at this point. The U.S.
trade surplus with Western Europe was about $811.6 million in
Maythe latest month for which data are available -- and $1.36
billion in April. Fundamentally, that balance portends a
steady demand for dollars needed to purchase U.S. goods.
   The moves of the past few days "obviously make the mark
even more overvalued," said Mr. Kellner. Political and
psychological factors are conspiring to keep the mark as
strong as it is, he insisted.
   Hard economic data in support of a stronger mark are in
fact scarce. The West German Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden last week said it doesn't expect reliable East
German cost-of-living data until the end of 1990.
   Hartmut Voges, a dealer at Norddeutsche
Landesbank-Girozentrale, said he believes the dollar will
rebound against the mark.
   "The U.S. economic data aren't all that good, but when you
look at purchasing power parity, for example, I can't really
imagine new lows for the dollar," Mr. Voges said.
   Geoffrey Dennis, chief international economist at James
Capel &amp; Co. in London, was also bullish on the dollar despite
expectations of a quarter-percentage-point decline in U.S.
interest rates. "The downside scope for U.S. rates is small,"
he reasoned, as there is little chance President Bush and the
Congress will agree on a credible federal deficit reduction
package. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan has said
such a package is a prerequisite for a further easing of
monetary policy.
   Several survey participants said anticipation of higher
oil prices after last week's Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries midyear meeting also will tend to keep
the dollar firm against the mark and yen.
   Most dollar-mark rate forecasts hinge on whether the
market has overreacted to the smooth beginning of German
unification.
   Most respondents predicted the dollar will remain firm
against the mark in August without making strong gains. Only
two people said the dollar would trade for less than 1.60
marks at the end of either period. Forecasts ranged from a
low of 1.58 marks to a high of 1.65 marks by the end of
August. End-of-October forecasts ranged from 1.55 marks to
1.67 marks.
   In the longer term, many of the survey's participants
predict a further weakening of the U.S. economy, increasing
the likelihood that the Federal Reserve will loosen monetary
policy and damage the attractiveness of dollar-denominated
bonds.
   Michael Rosenberg, vice president and manager of the
international fixed-income research group at Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets, said that company's quarterly investor
survey shows investors are "warming up to the yen and turning
cold on the dollar."
   Yoichi Itoh, chief corporate service officer for Sumitomo
Trust &amp; Banking Co. in Tokyo, said a cheaper dollar would
help U.S. exports and manufacturers when the economy
threatens to slow to a standstill.
   Mr. Itoh also said that with the approach of U.S.
congressional elections in November, the administration will
be eager to keep the economy growing. "If the U.S. gets into
even a modest recession this year, for political reasons
they'll have to soften their stance on fiscal policy or
decrease interest rates substantially," he said.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $370.00 an ounce, up $2.20. Estimated
volume was a moderate three million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Wednesday, gold was quoted
at $370.65 an ounce.
   ---
   This article was reported by Nicholas Hastings in London,
Arjen Bongard in Bonn, Christopher Hill and Douglas Appell in
Tokyo and Brandon Mitchener in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Chemical Banking Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CHL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CHEMICAL BANKING Corp. (New York) -- Stephen Youts was
named managing director and head of investment banking at
Chemical's Texas Commerce Bancshares Inc. subsidiary in
Houston. Mr. Youts, 42 years old, previously headed Salomon
Brothers Inc.'s office in Dallas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   North Rescued and a Civil Liberty Time Bomb Is Defused
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   It was a coincidence of constitutional moment that Justice
William Brennan resigned the day a conservative federal
appeals court reversed the convictions of a high-profile
criminal defendant. The judges were guided by the Bill of
Rights, prosecutorial abuses and a legal brief from the ACLU.
That the defendant was Oliver North is a timely reminder that
original-intent jurisprudence, not result-oriented activism,
is the best guarantee of individual rights.
   Mr. North's appeal should have been a no-brainer for
judges. The facts were simple. The Iran-Contra congressional
committee wanted Mr. North to testify in 1987 on live
television. As was his right, Mr. North invoked his Fifth
Amendment freedom from self-incrimination; no claim to any
constitutional penumbras or emanations was needed. As was
Congress's privilege, it forced him to waive his rights in
exchange for immunity from any later prosecution using the
coerced information. Independent counsel Lawrence Walsh
warned Congress that such "immunity would create serious --
and perhaps insurmountable -- barriers to the prosecution of
the immunized witness."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The trouble began two years and millions of prosecutorial
dollars ago when Mr. Walsh ignored his own legal analysis and
charged Mr. North anyway. It was clear before trial that the
memories of many witnesses were "refreshed" by Mr. North's
congressional testimony; one, Robert McFarlane, even got a
second round of testimony to Congress to respond to what Mr.
North had said. The American Civil Liberties Union warned,
"there is no conceivable way this case can be tried free of
the taint of the defendants' immunized testimony," that a
trial would "eviscerate the privilege against
self-incrimination" and cause a "gross miscarriage of
justice."
   In more than 200 pages of legal reasoning for the federal
appeals court in Washington, Reagan-appointed Judges Laurence
Silberman and David Sentelle agreed with the ACLU, while
Carter-appointed Judge Patricia Wald dissented. The court
vacated the convictions pending a hearing "witness-by-witness
. . . line-by-line and item-by-item." Trial Judge Gerhard
Gesell already has said many witnesses were hopelessly
tainted. The appellate opinion stressed that the Fifth
Amendment means the "government must occasionally decide
which it values more: immunization (perhaps to discharge
institutional duties, such as congressional fact-finding and
information dissemination) or prosecution."
   Mr. Walsh may decide to appeal, but the reversal of the
most famous criminal conviction in years and most expensive
ever raises more doubts about the entire system of
independent counsel. The ACLU hasn't been heard from yet, but
many critics have seen these special prosecutors -- created
by Congress to go after officials in the executive branch --
as civil-liberty time bombs.
   In layman's language, much of the appeals court ruling on
this point can be interpreted as Kaboom] One purpose of the
Fifth Amendment is "to prevent the prosecutor from
transmogrifying into the inquisitor, complete with that
officer's most pernicious tool -- the power of the state to
force a person to incriminate himself." The court noted that
"we do not countenance political trials in this country" and
even doubted whether the most serious charge on which Mr.
North was convicted should have been brought. "No one can
seriously question that people constantly attempt, in
innumerable ways, to obstruct or impede congressional
committees," the court said, but we don't always assume this
amounts to a crime.
   Judge Silberman's separate opinion was especially tough.
He began by referring to the prosecution summary to the jury,
which not only compared Mr. North to Hitler but also referred
three times to the Iran-Contra middlemen making a "killing"
on the deal. Prosecutors wanted to show that money, not Abu
Nidal's threats, motivated the "illegal gratuity" of a
$13,800 security fence for Mr. North's home. The problem was
that Judge Gesell had barred any such description of the
profits without risking rebuttal testimony.
   "I consider the improper comments in the IC's closing
argument to be egregious prosecutorial misconduct," Judge
Silberman wrote, "because they were deliberate rather than
inadvertent." This was an example of how "the IC wished, even
to the extent of violating the agreed upon `rule of
engagement' of the trial, to impugn North's motives." It was
"severe misconduct" to have "coolly crafted" such
"intentionally improper arguments."
   Judge Silberman said this alone would have been nearly
enough to reverse the convictions. He cited a precedent with
lesser sanctions for prosecutorial misconduct, but "of
course, one of the premises of that analysis is that
prosecutors employed by U.S. Attorneys work in something of
an ongoing relationship with federal judges so that a message
sent by one disciplinary action would act as a deterrent to
other prosecutors." Whatever the merits of this argument for
prosecutors who are not independent counsel, "they are
obviously inapplicable here due to the nature of the
prosecutorial unit."
   He also criticized President Reagan for his failure to
invoke executive privilege against Congress or Mr. Walsh. "I
completely fail to see how an ex-President can give answers
to a prosecutor who is independent of any presidential
supervision," Judge Silberman wrote, "and yet assert
executive privilege over the same or similar material when
sought by a defendant." This is especially true because Mr.
North was convicted on "criminal statutes (never before
employed as here) and his defense is that he was lawfully
doing the President's bidding" in an area, foreign policy,
"at the core of the chief executive's constitutional
responsibility."
   This was not the first time Judge Silberman has critiqued
the problems with independent counsel. In a case in January,
1988, involving former Independent Counsel Alexia Morrison,
he dismissed congressionally controlled prosecutors as
unconstitutional. His opinion, reversed by the Supreme Court,
would have saved everyone here a lot of trouble.
   Targets such as Mr. North face prosecutors with unlimited
time and funds to pursue charges no matter how insignificant.
"The independent counsel is cut off from the accumulated lore
and wisdom of career Department of Justice officials," Judge
Silberman wrote in his earlier opinion. "A case that seems
strong and important when viewed in isolation may look weak
or trivial when measured against past cases or in relation to
broader considerations." He concluded, "This is no abstract
dispute concerning the doctrine of separation of powers. The
rights of individuals are at stake."
   Civil libertarian conservativism is a natural in an age of
political prosecutions, independent counsel and RICO. The
good news is that when President Bush made his list of
possible replacements for Justice Brennan, Judge Silberman
finished second runner-up for the job and is a likely
frontrunner for future vacancies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   German Study Finds Eye `Sculpturing'
   With Lasers Helps Fix Near-Sightedness
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   BEAM TTEK VISX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   German ophthalmologists reported they had successfully
corrected near-sightedness in 10 of 13 patients by
"sculpturing" their eyes with an American-made laser.
   The eye researchers called the eye sculpturing a success
if the patient was able to see without eye glasses at least
as well as he or she did with glasses before the laser
treatment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The German scientists, from the Charlottenburg Clinic in
Berlin, are the first to report the results of laser eye
sculpturing in near-sighted patients although there have been
previous reports of tests of the technique in blind patients.
They reported the results in the May/June issue of Refractive
&amp; Corneal Surgery, an American medical journal.
   Copies of the medical journal article were distributed to
reporters by Summit Technology Inc., Watertown, Mass., which
made the ultraviolet excimer laser used at the Berlin clinic.
Summit is in a race with two other small U.S. laser makers to
bring to market excimer lasers that can correct
near-sightedness and far-sightedness. The two competitors,
Taunton Technologies Inc. in Monroe, Conn., and VisX in
Sunnyvale, Calif., recently agreed to end a protracted patent
dispute and to merge.
   The lasers are designed to reshape the cornea of the eye
in a fraction of a second, flattening it to correct
near-sightedness or increasing the curvature to correct
farsightedness. To do this, the lasers can almost instantly
vaporize layers of the cornea less than a millionth of an
inch thick.
   Theo Seiler and his colleagues at the Berlin clinic
reported the results of laser sculpturing on eight women and
five men, aged 26 to 48 years, who had varying degrees of
near-sightedness. They said the results six to eight months
after treatment were equal to or better than those achieved
with radial keratotomy, in which the cornea is surgically
flattened by cutting tiny radial slits around the edges of
the cornea.
   Six months after treatment the degree of near-sightedness
was reduced in all 13 patients, but in three the correction
fell short of the correction afforded by eye glasses. This
undercorrection was deliberate in two of these patients who
decided not to risk an overcorrection that would have made
them somewhat far-sighted. Hence, in only one patient did the
technique fall short of expectations.
   All the patients had an ache and a feeling of a foreign
body in the treated eye for 24 to 36 hours after the laser
treatment, the researchers reported. Glare was a common
problem for about two weeks afterwards and two patients
reported having "ghost images" in their eyes for about two
weeks.
   The eye doctors said they could see a haze in the eyes of
the treated patients during the first three months after
treatment but the haze gradually cleared up in the subsequent
three months.
   The main problem was predicting the degree of correction.
The researchers deliberately sculptured the corneas to
produce initially a degree of far-sightedness. As expected,
the corneas moved toward near-sightedness as they healed. The
rate at which this happened was slowed by medications to
prevent scarring. In three cases, the medication was stopped
to permit sufficient compensation for the deliberate
overcorrection, a move that proved successful.
   "In the present series of eyes, the predictability {of the
degree of correction} was good but not excellent," Dr. Seiler
and his associates reported. Results should improve with
experience, they said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Clinical Technologies
   Associates to Dismiss
   Steiner as President
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CTAI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ELMSFORD, N.Y. -- Clinical Technologies Associates Inc.
said its board in a 3-2 vote decided to dismiss Solomon S.
Steiner as president and chief executive officer.
   The board named Michael M. Goldberg to the top operating
posts and offered Mr. Steiner, 52 years old, who founded the
company in 1985, the option of retaining his board seat and
running the clinical division. Mr. Steiner rejected the
offer, and indicated that he might take legal action.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Clinical Technologies is developing a method by which
drugs that can be administered only by injection -- such as
insulin for diabetics -- can be taken orally.
   "The company has come to the point where it must expand..
.and improve its financing," said Arnold J. Friedhoff, the
66-year-old chairman. "We have substantial new research
facilities and ventures. And we felt that (Mr.) Steiner could
help by running the clinical division and (Dr.) Goldberg
could best serve the company by becoming president and chief
executive."
   Dr. Goldberg, 31, is founding partner of Montaur Capital
Corp., a New York investment banking firm specializing in
healthcare companies.
   In over-the-counter trading yesterday, Clinical
Technologies shares were quoted at $12.625 bid, up 12.5
cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ruling Against Volkswagen AG
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP G.VOW
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- West Germany's Federal Cartel Office
yesterday said it has made a preliminary ruling against
Volkswagen AG's practice of requiring its dealers to offer
customers only leasing contracts from a VW financial-services
subsidiary.
   The West Berlin-based antitrust watchdog said in the
informal decision that Volkswagen's dealers are being
unfairly hindered from seeking working relationships with
other leasing companies, which at the same time are being
deprived of potential customers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ruling, which could be made legally binding at a later
date, is important since Volkswagen is West Germany's largest
producer of cars, via its Volkswagen, Audi and Seat brands.
The company also claims to be Europe's largest car maker.
   The Cartel Office noted that the Wolfsburg-based company's
V.A.G. Leasing G.m.b.H. subsidiary controls about 20% of the
West German vehicle leasing market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
PETROLEUM (PET)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WOULD YOU PAY to be audited? New York state gets $110 an
hour from banks.
   The state says it collected an unseemly 37% of bank taxes
through audits in fiscal 1990. So to deter such delayed
payments, legislators directed tax collectors to impose an
audit fee during fiscal 1991. The rate is meant to equal
costs and produce $3 million; it is about what big CPA firms
charge for young staff, says Stanley Sherwood of Coopers &amp;
Lybrand. But the New York State Bankers Association says it
will seek to have the fee repealed and to prevent it from
being extended into the following year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Banks and CPAs complain that the fee could be expensive
and even exceed any tax deficiency revealed by an audit. And
what about verifying the bill, especially if a bank thinks
auditors wasted time on a wild-goose chase? Tax Commissioner
Wetzler says banks will be able to ask for an accounting. But
banks audited by the IRS or New York City could get a break;
the state often relies on such fee-free audits. The audit fee
is considered to be a deductible business cost.
   Oklahoma charges for travel expenses of auditors who go
out of state.
                                                                                                       

   HIGHER SIN TAXES drive revenues and jobs over state
borders, a study says.
   It's obvious that states with low taxes on cigarettes,
liquor and gasoline draw business from their neighbors. But
with sin taxes rising, the American Legislative Exchange
Council, a national group of conservative state legislators
seeking ammunition to fight increases, released a study
detailing some effects. In 1975-88, it says, high-tax
Massachusetts had average annual losses of $27.4 million in
excise-tax revenue and $132.6 million in retail sales because
residents dropped over to New Hampshire.
   The study by Price Waterhouse, CPAs, estimates the Bay
State lost 1,546 jobs paying $14.7 million a year. New
Hampshire, which has no sales or liquor tax and a lower
cigarette tax, gained $22.6 million in taxes on the increased
sales, plus 796 jobs, the study says. In the same years,
Illinois lost gasoline and cigarette sales to Indiana, which
lost liquor sales to Illinois.
                                                                                                       

   DON'T COUNT ON the IRS's estimates of enforcement revenue,
the GAO warns.
   Congress's General Accounting Office agrees that the IRS
can raise revenue with more staff for audit, collection, and
related programs. But a GAO report to Sen. Domenici (R.,
N.M.), says the IRS still estimates results of enforcement
efforts; it has no system to count the actual revenue.
Further, past estimates appear to have been "far too high" --
by 40%; and there are wide, unexplained differences between
IRS revenue forecasts and result estimates.
   The IRS's $6.1 billion budget for fiscal 1991, passed by
the House, would add 3,600 enforcement staffers; it estimates
they would increase revenue by $500 million in 1991 and by
$6.5 billion through fiscal 1995. But until the IRS develops
more reliable ways to measure results and forecast the
effects of staff increases, the GAO says, Congress should use
"the most conservative assumption" for added revenue.
   After saying for several years that enforcement efforts
produced $50 billion a year, the IRS changed its methods and
estimated 1989 results at $29.6 billion.
                                                                                                       

   BRITISH CHANCELLOR of the Exchequer Major writes Treasury
chief Brady to propose a joint inquiry into tax avoidance by
multinational companies. House hearings raised concerns about
price manipulation by foreign companies. But all nations face
the problem and should act together to allay damaging
suspicions, Major suggests.
                                                                                                       

   AMNESTY'S NOT FOR US, IRS Commissioner Goldberg and the
Treasury's Michael Graetz told a House panel last week. They
repeated contentions that a federal amnesty wouldn't raise
large revenues and could have counterproductive effects on
enforcement programs and compliant taxpayers.
                                                                                                       

   AWAY WITH WORDS] Encouraged by the IRS, the American Bar
Association's tax section has drafted proposals to simplify
and sharply condense hundreds of pages of regulations on
partnerships, employee benefits, and passive-activity losses.
                                                                                                       

   BIG CORPORATE AUDITS are the targets of an IRS improvement
plan.
   Neither the IRS nor companies are happy with the
decentralized special program for auditing the 1,565 largest
corporations. The IRS devotes 27% of audit resources to this
work, which produces about $10 billion in tax claims -- over
half the audit total. But the IRS concedes it loses tax
dollars because it lacks enough industry and issue expertise
and fails to coordinate activities that cross its district
lines. Companies complain of delays and inconsistencies.
   The IRS now has a plan to centralize and strengthen the
program. It calls for a national policy board, a national
program director, more industry and issue specialists,
improved training, and other measures. "Overall, it's a
positive step, although that depends on how they implement
it," says William Burk of CPC International, who is president
of the Tax Executives Institute, an organization of corporate
officials.
   Companies are wary of plans to involve IRS lawyers in
audits; but the IRS insists that the goal is technical aid,
not preparation for litigation.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Vermont has limited its income-tax credit against
property taxes to $2,000 a year and to people whose household
income doesn't exceed $60,000; there were no limits before. .
. . Food markets in Georgia sued to delay new sales-tax
exemptions for certain foods, because they find the new law
too confusing to follow.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bush, Democrats
   Seek to Set Dates
   For Deficit Votes
   ----
   By David Wessel and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush and top congressional
Democrats, surrendering any hope of reaching a
deficit-reduction accord in August, are inching toward
agreement to try to negotiate a pact immediately after Labor
Day.
   A White House official said President Bush and top
congressional Democrats yesterday tentatively agreed to set
firm dates in September for floor votes on an agreement, even
though they haven't reached one. But some Democratic budget
negotiators are resisting what Sen. Wyche Fowler (D., Ga.)
termed making any "agreement to agree" on spending cuts and
tax increases.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   House Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta (D., Calif.)
said budget negotiators are talking about an ambitious
schedule of resuming talks immediately after Labor Day with a
goal of reaching an accord by Sept. 10, the day the rest of
the Congress returns from its summer recess. The goal would
be to get Congress to enact the agreement by Oct. 1.
   Mr. Bush and congressional Republicans want the entire
Congress to ratify that timetable, but a parliamentary
mechanism for that hasn't been agreed to yet.
   Preoccupied with tactics, schedules and the pending August
recess, budget negotiators have spent little time in the past
week talking about the substance of what spending to cut or
what taxes to increase. Nevertheless, the White House so far
has displayed no sign that Mr. Bush has accepted advice from
some congressional Republicans that he criticize Democrats
for not putting forward a deficit-reduction proposal of their
own.
   But a White House official said that Mr. Bush and top
Democrats have agreed to "break the code of silence" that was
supposed to surround the talks. The new posture would allow
both sides to "debate publicly the merits of ideas," and that
could open the door to more partisan debate in the next few
weeks.
   Mr. Bush invited congressional Republicans to breakfast
this morning, and some of them expect the president to begin
criticizing the Democrats soon after that.
   Republican budget negotiators continue to insist that Rep.
Richard Gephardt (D., Mo.), the House majority leader,
indicated to budget negotiators on July 24 that Democrats
would present a deficit-reduction plan of their own within a
few days. Democrats deny that he made any such promise. "I
don't think there was any reneging," Rep. Gephardt said.
"There may have been some miscommunications about what was to
happen."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Redland's Stake in Joint Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.RDL F.LAF A.CSR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Redland PLC said it will take an initial 20%
stake in a European plasterboard joint venture headed by
Lafarge Coppee S.A. of France.
   Lafarge, a French building products manufacturer, and
Redland will combine their plasterboard operations and buy
out CSR Ltd.'s minority shareholding in Redland Plasterboard
PLC.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lafarge, whose other gypsum-product businesses and
majority stake in National Gypsum Co. are excluded from the
venture, will pay #39 million ($72 million) and Redland #16
million toward the acquisition of CSR's 49% stake in Redland
Plasterboard.
   Redland, which under the agreement is entitled to expand
its stake in the new venture to 33.4% after five years, said
the combination will form Europe's second-largest
plasterboard group. BPB Industries PLC, a British gypsum
products manufacturer, is currently the continent's largest
plasterboard supplier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GE Gets $101 Million
   In Defense Contracts
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GE GD CTC UIS UTX LIT TXN MAS LTV
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- General Electric Co. received $101 million
in defense contracts for shipboard weapons and computer
equipment for the Navy and jet engine parts for the Air
Force.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Dynamics Corp. got a $63.8 million Navy contract
for shipboard weapon systems.
                                                                                                       

   Contel Federal Systems Inc., a unit of Contel Corp., was
awarded a $33.2 million Air Force contract for
data-processing systems.
                                                                                                       

   Unisys Corp. got a $16.6 million Army contract for
computer systems.
                                                                                                       

   United Technologies Corp. received a $14.2 million Army
contract for four UH-60 helicopters.
                                                                                                       

   Litton Systems, a unit of Litton Industries Inc., won a
$13.9 million Navy contract for missile guidance systems.
                                                                                                       

   AM General Corp. was issued an $11.9 million Army contract
for trucks.
                                                                                                       

   Texas Instruments Inc. received a $10.8 million contract
for Army electronics and Air Force laser-guided bombs.
                                                                                                       

   NI Industries, a unit of Masco Corp., got a $10 million
Army contract for ammunition.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senate Should Put Souter to Scholarship Test
   ----
   By Gary L. McDowell
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Several years ago, Jerzy Kosinski wrote "Being There," a
strange little book (later turned into a Peter Sellers movie)
about a strange little man who, through no fault of his own,
was suddenly thrust into the whirl of American politics. A
simple fellow who had grown to maturity tending to his
business was an instant hit in official Washington: It had
not seen his like before. His every utterance was taken with
the utmost seriousness; he was acclaimed profound. All the
world hung on his every word.
   His words, however, were not what they appeared. He was a
simple man, with simple thoughts, who sought simply to
express them. His depth was added by his audience; the little
man had no depth at all. The joke was that his audience did
not know that; indeed, they did not care. He spoke to their
fears and their hopes and in so doing gave them what they
both wanted and needed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Enter Judge David H. Souter.
   By all accounts, Judge Souter is a very nice man: kind to
friends and family; a quietly pious fellow; a hard worker; an
old-fashioned frugal Yankee. But that is not what got him the
nomination to the Supreme Court of the United States. What
got him to the courthouse door is the notion that he is
brilliant; he is, we are assured, "a scholar."
   To say the least, the evidence is thin. In a legal career
that has spanned nearly three decades, Judge Souter has
published nary a word on the law; delivered no memorable
speeches; and, if it is to be believed, has not so much as
engaged in spirited discussions with his closest friends and
associates about the most intellectually interesting ideas of
our time. By all accounts, the great public issues of our day
do not interest Judge Souter very much. This should be
troubling to conservatives and liberals alike.
   Neither side of the ideological divide should accept at
face value the assurances of President Bush and Sen. Warren
Rudman (R., N.H.) that Judge Souter is indeed a scholar and a
brilliant thinker. If the process of advice and consent is to
mean anything, the Senate has to refuse to limply accept that
he is a scholar worthy of the Supreme Court: It has to make
him prove it. The Constitution and the country deserve at
least that much.
   The one way to make sure that does not happen is to focus
on abortion to the near exclusion of everything else. That
strategy is already being put into play, at least in the
media. And the political shadows cast by Roe v. Wade (more
accurately now, Webster v. Reproductive Health Services)
threaten to obliterate any serious consideration of Judge
Souter's worthiness to sit on our highest court.
   The question is not how Judge Souter would or would not
vote on the issue of abortion; the question is how he
understands the Constitution and the nature and extent of
judges' power under that Constitution.
   At a minimum, the Senate -- both sides of the aisle -- has
to get to the bottom of this enigmatic man from Weare, N.H.
It has to resolve to know him, to know what he thinks, to
understand his conceptions of the law and judicial power.
   That will be easier said than done. But there is a way, a
way that would also carry with it political advantages for
all concerned -- including the country as a whole. The Senate
should refuse to broach the abortion issue during the
confirmation hearings. Period.
   By so doing, the Senate Judiciary Committee can give this
nominee a good deal greater scrutiny than if it allows the
process to slide into the abortion mire, there to sink
beneath the surface of reason. Indeed, it would provide the
perfect opportunity to exhibit something akin to
statesmanship by going beyond the instant heat of political
passion to the more permanent concerns that will confront the
Supreme Court as it lopes into the next century.
   There are many other areas of fruitful inquiry the Senate
can and should undertake. How does Judge Souter understand
the idea of separated powers; of federalism; of the role of
the founders' intention in constitutional construction?
   What is his view of "stare decisis," the binding power of
precedent? Does he believe precedents are sacrosanct or does
he, with Thomas Hobbes, believe that precedent merely shows
what was done, not what was done well? Again, going beyond
the particular cases to more general principles.
   Or take the big one: Is there a right to privacy in the
Constitution or not? But beyond that, how would he criticize
both Justice William O. Douglas's majority opinion in
Griswold v. Connecticut and Justice Hugo L. Black's famous
dissent? In other words, force the nominee to bring the
scholar's way of thinking to bear on one of the most famous
cases in American constitutional history.
   More generally on the question of the relationship of
higher law to the Constitution, the Senate can go beyond the
passions of the moment and focus on what is fundamental. Ask
the judge, for example, to share his views of Justice James
Iredell's rejection of natural law in constitutional
construction and Justice Samuel Chase's defense of it in the
1798 case Calder v. Bull. The fundamental legal issue is the
same -- only the politics have changed, have calmed down.
   To allow Judge Souter to escape close scrutiny would be an
injustice to the Constitution and the process of advice and
consent it provides. This is the nation's one chance to know
what this man thinks before he dons the robes that affect our
lives on a daily basis; perhaps more important, this is the
only chance to know how he thinks.
   The Senate can easily do this in a way that honors rather
than besmirches its reputation as a great deliberative body.
The acrimony of the Bork debacle can be avoided if the Senate
chooses to examine this man's scholarly credentials in a
scholarly way. That, after all, is what advice and consent
should be about.
   ---
   Mr. McDowell is a visiting scholar at Harvard Law School.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Yankee Soap Opera
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   We don't imagine there's too much weeping in the land for
the summary justice meted out by Baseball Commissioner Fay
Vincent to Yankees owner George Steinbrenner. However, the
support for Mr. Vincent's decision to deprive Mr.
Steinbrenner of his majority ownership in the team seems to
have little connection to the issue at hand -- the Yankee
owner's dealings with a reputed gambler. Instead, the fans
appear to feel that George is being "sentenced" with exile
for the crime of turning the team into a 17-year-long soap
opera. If the world of politics was as closed and private as
baseball, Mr. Vincent would now go to Capitol Hill to
investigate and ban from public life the perpetrators of the
S&amp;L mess.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Competition Appears at the Paris Bourse
   ----
   By Charles Fleming
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NW EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France's independent stockbrokers are looking
nervously over their shoulders and they don't like what they
see: the fierce face of competition.
   The once-gentlemanly ways of the stockbrokering community,
little changed since Napoleon's times, were shattered in 1988
by France's "Big Bang" reforms.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Today the club has dissolved and it's no-holds-barred
when it comes to getting your neighbor's client," said Alain
Boscher, chairman of independent brokerage firm Boscher S.A.
   Ever since Tuffier, Ravier, Py &amp; Associes, one of France's
largest independent stockbrokage firms, went bankrupt last
month, rumors have run rife of who will be the next to go
under.
   Brokers talk of a list circulating in London that warns
investors away from certain Paris houses.
   And the independents are crying foul over a letter from
one of the larger brokerage firms, backed by a big foreign
bank, that stresses the limits of the Paris Bourse's new fund
that doesn't fully guarantee investors against losses caused
by brokerage firm bankruptcies.
   "It's shocking, and a sad state of affairs," Mr. Boscher
said of the letter from Sellier Natwest, owned by Britain's
National Westminster Bank PLC, to its clients.
   "The guarantee {fund} is limited. . . . Sellier offers you
security of a different dimension," says the letter from
Patrick Poupon, Sellier chairman.
   Mr. Poupon said in a telephone interview that he wasn't
trying to throw doubt on other French brokerages.
   "I want to defend Paris as a financial center," he said,
"But there will inevitably be a concentration in the number
of brokers." Only the weight of a major bank behind a broker
would guarantee "absolute security" for customers, he added.
   It isn't as though French brokerage firms have never gone
bankrupt before. But Tuffier's problems, and the ensuing
spate of rumors, highlight how stockbrokering in France has
changed recently.
   Under the Napoleonic Code governing the guild-like
community of stockbrokers from the nineteenth century until
1988, if any broker went under, the others were collectively
responsible for his debt. "We used to look after our own,"
said Jean-Pierre Pinatton, chairman of independent brokerage
firm Jean-Pierre Pinatton S.A.
   Big Bang changed that by allowing the mostly family-owned
partnerships to open their capital to French and foreign
financial institutions. Today only six of Paris's 43
brokerage firms are independent.
   The influx of money from banks, insurance companies and
foreign brokerage-firms, all keen for a seat on the Paris
Bourse, has made very rich men of some brokers. But the
influx also introduced a new breed of business-like manager
to the profession.
   Mr. Boscher said that with today's computerized trading,
brokers don't go to the exchange anymore. He knows the names
of only half of the brokerage firms' chairmen. And when they
do meet, except for the handful from the old school, brokers
call each other a formal "Monsieur."
   "How can you have any kind of solidarity between a major
financial institution and a Pinatton?" asked Mr. Pinatton.
   Mr. Pinatton is chairman of the Paris Bourse's guarantee
fund that came into effect at the beginning of this year.
   Tuffier was the first brokerage to qualify for protection
under the fund, which limits total refunds to 200 million
French francs ($37.2 million) for clients who cannot recover
their shares or cash from a bankrupt broker. No details are
available on how much the fund will have to pay out in
Tuffier's case.
   Tuffier was also the first Paris stockbrokerage firm to be
hit severely by the squeeze on brokers' margins since fixed
commissions were abolished last year.
   Thierry Tuffier, the company's chairman, blamed the firm's
demise on a price war among brokers and on a slump in trading
volumes. He added that many other firms are facing similar
losses.
   After Mr. Tuffier's remarks, several of the closely held
independents -- including Pinatton, Patrice Warny S.A. and
Fauchier Magnan, Durant des Aulnois -- broke with tradition
and disclosed half-year financial results.
   The independents were also quick to blame Mr. Tuffier's
problems on hubris, saying overambitious expansion raised the
firm's break-even point too high.
   The independents, arguing against allowing the market to
become the preserve of a few all-powerful banks, are quick to
dispute any suggestion that they will be the first to suffer
in a tight market.
   Philip Best, responsible for foreign sales at Fauchier
Magnan, said, "The key does not lie in being owned by a bank,
as any ex-employees of Greenwell Montague, Scrimgeour Vickers
or Morgan Grenfell would probably point out."
   Equities trading at all three British firms has been wound
up by their parent banks after large losses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ITT Buy-Back Plan
   For 10 Million Shares
   Is Approved by Board
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   ITT
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- ITT Corp. said its board has approved a plan
to purchase additional shares of its common and preferred, up
to an equivalent of 10 million common shares. The shares will
be purchased on the open market.
   The new authorization is an extension of a program
announced in April 1987, allowing the company to purchase up
to an equivalent of 10 million common shares. In March 1988,
the board authorized the purchase of an additional five
million common shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In June, ITT said it intended to use the majority of the
proceeds from the sale of 7% of Alcatel N.V. to buy back
stock. Compagnie Generale d'Electricite of France paid ITT
$640 million for the Alcatel shares. Alcatel is a
telecommunications manufacturing joint venture between ITT
and CGE.
   "We continue to believe that ITT shares are an excellent
buy in the stock market today," said Rand V. Araskog,
chairman and chief executive officer.
   To date, the company has bought back about 14.5 million
common shares. ITT also purchased 11.7 million common shares
in connection with the formation of an employee stock
ownership plan established in 1989. Also, the company has
redeemed 1.2 million common equivalent shares of convertible
preferred stock since 1987. This brings the total number of
shares repurchased or redeemed to over 27 million shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A Baltic Sea
   Of Leaders Asks
   America's Help
   ----
   By Amity Shlaes
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   How long is 100 days? Long enough for a country to make a
revolution. Long enough too for the Soviet Union to lock that
country inside its crumbling empire.
   That at least is the view of a clutch of leaders from
newly elected Baltic governments passing through Washington
this summer. The statesmen from Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia
talk of the disintegration of Mr. Gorbachev's power. They
talk about independence declarations they have made in the
past 100 days and hope that their mission to America will
speed them along the road to full independence. But they also
fear that American help won't come in time to stop a Moscow
that still controls their borders from squeezing them back
into the Soviet order. Some of them even think that by fall
-- 100 days from now -- Soviet troops might turn Baltic
independence into a historical footnote.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ivars Godmanis and Janis Jurkans, Latvia's newly elected
prime minister and foreign minister, represent the optimistic
side of that wager. The pair of Balts checked into
Washington's Mayflower Hotel 10 days ago bearing a message
for Mr. Bush from Boris Yeltsin, the Russian republic's new
president. Mr. Yeltsin suggested opening diplomatic relations
between the Russian republic and the U.S. Soon, the Latvians
hope, new individual nations -- Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania
and Russia -- will start replacing the Kremlin in the
international order. "Everything is great. We see no
problem," burbled Mr. Jurkans into the telephone late one
evening last week after a meeting with Secretary of State
James Baker.
   As things turned out, the Latvians did make progress. The
U.S. has never recognized the Soviet annexation of the Baltic
nations in 1940, but it doesn't (yet) recognize the new
Baltic governments either. When the Latvians arrived in
Washington, the White House told them the president had no
time to meet. Messrs. Godmanis and Jurkans were not even
invited to last Wednesday's Rose Garden ceremony
commemorating Captive Nations Day -- even though the annual
event is designed specifically to honor struggles of nations
like Latvia. On Thursday, though, Sen. Robert Byrd (D.,
W.Va.) introduced the two gentlemen to the Senate, and the
president's office got wind of the Yeltsin message.
Presidential time materialized. The Latvians spent 40 minutes
Monday with Mr. Bush.
   Whatever this kind of behavior says about the president,
it satisfies the buoyant Latvians. "Creeping recognition," is
how some in Washington have described it. "Fine, don't
recognize us yet," Mr. Godmanis reportedly told Mr. Bush.
"We're not completely sovereign anyway. Soviets still control
our borders." Monday, the Latvians headed for New York, where
a Lithuanian vice premier, Algirdas Brazauskas, was already
busy plugging joint ventures and Lithuanian TV sets.
   "We were the first to really feel the bear's paw," Mr.
Brazauskas said, describing the economic blockade the Soviet
Union imposed on Lithuania after it declared independence in
March. But now that the blockade is over, Mr. Brazauskas is
concentrating on doing business. "Invest," he told bankers,
lawyers and phone-company executives at the Cornell Club.
   Other Balts present a darker picture. One of them is
Lennart Meri, the 61-year-old Estonian foreign minister who
dropped by the Journal for lunch recently. "We fear a new
totalitarianism" said the blunt Mr. Meri in a voice so quiet
others at the table had to lean forward to hear. In May,
paratroopers moved into waterside Kohtla-Jarva. Moscow lifted
its economic blockade against Lithuania, but it has quietly
widened control of Estonian factories. Moscow has also
assumed control of currency exchange. How will the West know
when the Kremlin restores totalitarianism in Estonia? Mr.
Meri is asked. His reply: "When they shoot me."
   Mr. Meri worries specifically that Baltic states will be
forgotten when diplomats draw the new map of Europe.
Czechoslovakia finished its "velvet revolution" after only
one violent demonstration last November. The Germanys are
reunifying this year without a drop of blood spilling. But
months after declaring independence, the Baltic states are
still under the Soviet thumb. Mr. Meri wants to be sure the
Baltic states play a role in a November meeting of the
Conference on Security and Cooperation with Europe.
Otherwise, he fears, that organization will be a "closed
club" so busy congratulating itself on changes in Central
Europe that it leaves the Balts' fate to Mr. Gorbachev.
   With independence movements growing as fast as they are in
the Soviet Union, Mr. Meri's fear may be unwarranted.
Whatever future they predict for Mikhail Gorbachev, though,
Balts agree Washington could do more to help their struggle.
The White House and State Department, they say, should start
by focusing attention on Mr. Yeltsin and individual nations'
struggle. The Latvians want an American information center in
Riga, and economists to teach them about Adam Smith and
Milton Friedman. The Lithuanians want business. Mr. Meri
wants the world to notice when Soviet guards start tightening
controls at the borders.
   In a cheerful moment, Mr. Meri recalls the first time he
saw America -- from the west side of the Bering Strait, in
1966. "I was standing on the rocks and the clouds were
hanging low. There was a sudden change in the winds and I saw
a black strip of something" -- Alaska. "It was gone the next
moment." The vision may be melodramatic. But it does reflect
the Baltic situation. Now that Balts have got a glimpse of
freedom, they want to keep it.
   ---
   Miss Shlaes is the Journal's deputy editorial features
editor. Her book, "Germany, the Empire Within," will be
published by Farrar, Straus in January.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   New York investment analyst Theodore Forstmann, speaking
at a Manhattan Institute dinner this spring:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   I would submit that since the day of {J.P.} Morgan, credit
has been increasingly socialized by the federal government.
It has introduced all manner of insurance toward this end.
Parenthetically, many feel that this process sped up
dramatically during President Reagan's term in office -- a
curious result, given his political beliefs. Obviously the
insured deposits in the S&amp;Ls created the perfect context for
the debacle which has ensued. This insurance created a
no-lose situation that many people of dubious character could
not wait to take advantage of. In fact, the final bill to the
American people of $500 billion will exceed the entire amount
the country needed to finance all of World War II.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sallie Mae Promises
   To Lend More Funds
   To Loan Guarantor
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   SLM
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<GV>
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (EDN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Student Loan Marketing Association said
that it has agreed to lend another $200 million to the Higher
Education Assistance Foundation, the financially troubled
student-loan guarantee agency.
   Sallie Mae said the Education Department asked it to
provide the short-term financing while the government
continues its efforts to find an entity to take over the
assets and operations of HEAF. Sallie Mae, a
government-chartered, stockholder-owned corporation that has
created a secondary market for student loans, and several
other guarantee agencies are candidates to take over HEAF's
guaranteed student-loan portfolio, which totaled $8.8 billion
as of July 17, according to congressional auditors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The government has engaged Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., the Wall
Street unit of General Electric Co., to help it sort out its
options.
   The additional $200 million short-term financing is
collateralized by student loans, and the Education Department
has assured Sallie Mae that it will reinsure 100% of these
loans. Prior to the latest loan, Sallie Mae had loaned HEAF
$200 million and loaned affiliates of HEAF about $600
million. In addition, Sallie Mae owns about $2.4 billion of
loans guaranteed by HEAF. Sallie Mae asserts that it faces no
risk on these assets because they are fully reinsured by the
Education Department.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Davis Is Named
   New President
   Of Taj Mahal
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   X.TMP WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   I.G. "Jack" Davis Jr., an experienced casino executive who
ran Resorts International for 29 years, was named president
of the Trump Taj Mahal casino. Mr. Davis is the fourth
individual named to the position within the past year. He
will also serve as the facility's chief operating officer.
   The move was announced by Edward M. Tracy, the president
of Donald Trump's casino operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new position marks a return of sorts for the
65-year-old Mr. Davis, who helped conceive the Taj Mahal
project when it was launched by Resorts International a
decade ago. Mr. Davis's relationship with Mr. Trump dates
back to 1987 when, as president of Resorts, he helped
persuade the estate of the company's late founder to sell its
stock to Mr. Trump. After gaining control of the company, Mr.
Davis confirmed, Mr. Trump gave him a $1 million-a-year
salary.
   "Jack obviously knows a lot about the project," Mr. Tracy
said.
   Mr. Davis resigned from Resorts after the company was
purchased by Merv Griffin in 1988, but he is believed to have
remained friendly with Mr. Trump. "The casino business stays
in your blood," he said. "I feel I have some unfinished
business to take care of."
   Mr. Davis will have his work cut out for him. The Taj
Mahal, which opened to great fanfare on April 2, has not been
the smash some casino analysts predicted, and appears to be a
drain on Mr. Trump's already distressed holdings. In its
first quarter of operations it had a net operating loss of
about $15 million, according to people familiar with the
casino. In July, the facility is expected to gross about $40
million, which would be a record month for any casino, but
would also fall short of what the Taj must gross in the busy
summer months to meet annual debt payments of about $100
million.
   The Taj Mahal's disappointing performance has led Trump
officials to prepare to propose an exchange offer for holders
of $675 million in junk bonds that Mr. Trump sold to pay for
the property. The offer, which could be announced by the end
of August, would require bondholders to agree to exchange
debt for equity in the casino.
   Mr. Davis will succeed Willard "Bucky" Howard, who will
become the Taj's executive vice president and concentrate on
casino operations, Mr. Tracy said. Shortly after the Taj
opened, Mr. Howard replaced Walter Haybert as president of
the casino and hotel facility. Mr. Haybert had taken the
place of Mark Etess, who died in a helicopter crash along
with two other Trump Organization officials in October.
   Mr. Tracy said he expected that Mr. Trump's bankers, who
recently agreed to a restructuring of his $2 billion in bank
debt, would be pleased with the decision to hire Mr. Davis.
But, he added, they had not been consulted. For regulatory
reasons, Mr. Trump's lenders have no say in day-to-day casino
operations, Mr. Tracy said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Interlinking the Planet's Economies
   ----
   By Donald E. Petersen
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Kenichi Ohmae's "The Borderless World: Power and Strategy
in the Interlinked Economy" (Harper Business, 224 pages,
$21.95) contains insight and guidance for anyone engaged in
business. To understand the global economy accurately, he
argues, we must come to understand that national borders are
almost disappearing, never mind the eager preservationist
efforts of bureaucrats, politicians and the military.
   Economic policies based on conventional macroeconomic
statistics that compare one nation with another are outmoded,
Mr. Ohmae argues. Instead he proposes that we think in terms
of an Interlinked Economy (ILE), in which the U.S., Europe
and Japan are dominant, joined by Taiwan, Hong Kong and
Singapore.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Ohmae, the managing director of McKinsey &amp; Co. in
Japan, discusses a wide range of topics in his short, very
readable book. One chapter, for instance, is devoted to the
"equidistant manager." Ideally, such a manager no longer
distinguishes between home and overseas markets, but views
all key customers as important and thus equidistant from the
corporate center. In another, he critiques the time-worn
notion that beating the competition should be a primary
strategic tool.
   "Of course, it is important to take the competition into
account," writes Mr. Ohmae, "but that should not come first
in making strategy. First comes painstaking attention to the
needs of customers and close analysis of a company's real
degrees of freedom in responding to those needs."
   Amen to that] In fact, a concerted attempt to do just that
underlay the major Ford Motor Co. efforts of the 1980s.
Before that, our halls echoed with the old theme song: "Beat
Chevrolet]"
   Mr. Ohmae offers Japanese examples to make his point that
you are on the wrong track if all you are thinking about is
competition. I especially liked his discussion of how the
Japanese toiletry company, Kao, took the old Japanese bath
gel and additives industry to the cleaners. Instead of
competing with already existing products for the home bath
market, Kao came up with Babu, which looks like a jumbo Alka
Seltzer tablet and, once plopped into the bath, duplicates
the effect of a Japanese hot spring.
   Know your customer is a frequent refrain; spend money on
R&amp;D its obvious corollary. It seems to me that Mr. Ohmae
could have made an added point -- the importance of having
strong technical people at the top of a company. They know
the product. Still, readers no doubt will be intrigued by
some of the stories he tells from his own experiences as a
consultant. Don't rely exclusively on surveys; talk to the
customers, he says in an amusing chapter, "Brewing Wisdom,"
which describes the search for the perfect percolator.
   The book describes equally well the dangers of driving
profit out of an industry by what he calls excessive
companyism and the often detrimental role accounting systems
play in determining how managers will behave. "When nothing
else gets measured or rewarded, managers will blindly strive
to do more better." But more is not often better.
   He writes intelligently about the obsession with control,
to make the point that people often are very unwilling to do
the key thing that must be done when entering into a global
alliance: Give up some control and extend trust to your
partners.
   Still, when one considers how closed Japan has been for
most of its history and how difficult it still is in many
instances to gain entry into the Japanese economy, Mr.
Ohmae's examples of American or European reluctance to let in
Japanese investors ring a bit hollow. He says little of
significance on the subject of equity, other than saying an
obsession with it is dangerous.
   Even now, many Japanese companies continue their longtime
habits of focusing on themselves, never mind the effect this
may have on the profitability of the entire industry. Indeed,
someone from the auto industry might easily argue that
present overcapacity in world markets is proof of myopic
thinking. Mr. Ohmae's borderless world still is partly in the
future.
   To his credit, he often cites the Japanese government as
an obstacle to the smooth interflow of goods and ideas. For
instance, it protects the turf of Japan's drug industry by
forcing foreign drugs to undergo five years of retesting.
"Governments," he argues, "must move to a modern system that
stresses giving people as much choice as possible to keep
them well informed so they are capable of making a choice.
Government's role in a borderless world, then, is to
represent and protect the interests of its people, not of its
companies or its industries."
   "The Borderless World" contains much wisdom, questions and
issues that must be debated more extensively (for instance,
jobs and job security, the lack of a common currency,
floating exchange rates, and just what kind of an impact an
interlinked economy will have on the various segments within
it). But all in all, Mr. Ohmae has made a major contribution
to contemporary thought about the world economy.
   ---
   Mr. Petersen, chairman of Ford Motor Co. until March, now
is on the board of Dow Jones &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Ford Sells Farm-Gear Unit
   To Venture Headed by Fiat
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson and Guy Collins
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   F FIA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FARM EQUIPMENT (FAR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ford Motor Co., in its second major divestiture move in a
week, said it will sell its New Holland farm equipment
subsidiary to a joint venture headed by Fiat S.p.A. of Italy.
   The agreement, announced yesterday, calls for Fiat and
Ford to merge their tractor, farm and industrial equipment
businesses into a new company that will be 80%-owned by Fiat.
Terms were not disclosed, but analysts said Ford is likely to
receive more than the $330 million that it paid for the New
Holland operations in 1987.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The New Holland deal, in the works since spring, comes
just a week after Ford announced it will sell its aerospace
operations to Loral Corp. The two sales mark an about-face
for Ford, which acquired New Holland three years ago as part
of an aggressive diversification strategy.
   But earlier this year, Ford decided to pare its operations
to automotive and financial services. The New Holland
agreement virtually completes Ford's divestiture program, and
will give the auto maker additional cash to help finance a
big capital spending push in its auto operations.
   For Fiat, the Milan auto and industrial products maker,
the New Holland acquisition positions it to become one of the
three biggest farm equipment makers in the world.
   Fiat will pay Ford an undisclosed amount of cash and will
also have an option to buy Ford's remaining 20% stake in New
Holland within four years. Ford officials said they expect
Fiat to exercise that option.
   Ford is looking to bolster its cash reserves to finance
heavy investments in its automotive business. The No. 2 auto
maker boosted its capital spending during the first half of
this year to $3.3 billion, up 26% from a year ago. Much of
that money is being spent for new engines and transmissions,
and on the recent acquisition of Jaguar PLC.
   Ford and Fiat said yesterday they are continuing separate
talks related to a possible joint venture involving
commercial trucks.
   As part of yesterday's agreement, Fiat will get a Ford New
Holland diesel engine plant at Basildon, England, which
currently produces 65,000 truck and tractor engines a year,
and has a capacity of more than 100,000 engines a year. Fiat
said it had sought additional engine-making capacity in the
separate truck negotiations with Ford.
   The link-up marks a giant step forward for Fiat in the
buoyant U.S. tractor market, where its annual sales of 1,500
tractors, barely 1% of the market, compare with Ford New
Holland's 26,500, a 22% market share. The combined sales will
make the new company one of the big three U.S. suppliers,
along with Deere &amp; Co. and the JI Case unit of Tenneco Inc.
   Fiat currently builds farm implements in the U.S. in joint
ventures with Case, and builds industrial machinery in a
European joint venture with Deere. Fiat doesn't expect those
to change.
   "We have reason to believe that our existing joint
ventures can co-exist with this agreement," a Fiat spokesman
said.
   The new company will combine Fiat's farm and construction
machinery subsidiary FiatGeotech with Ford's New Holland
agricultural-equipment division. The units will retain their
separate market and product identities.
   Last year, New Holland and FiatGeotech had combined sales
of 95,000 tractors and a further 30,000 tractors produced in
joint ventures or under license. Sales of other agricultural
and industrial products totalled 54,000 units.
   Ford New Holland, with revenue of $2.8 billion last year
and close to 18,000 employees, is slightly larger than
FiatGeotech, which had sales of $2.3 billion and 13,000
employees. FiatGeotech has plants in Italy, Brazil, France
and the U.S., while the Ford unit, based in New Holland, Pa.
has plants and offices in the U.S., Canada, Britain, Belgium
and Brazil.
   Fiat officials said FiatGeotech and Ford New Holland had
complementary markets. While Fiat is the market leader in
Europe for tractors, with close to 16%, or 33,500 tractors,
much of its strength is in Italy, where it accounts for 38%
of the market. Ford New Holland has 9% of the European
market, equivalent to 16,500 tractors.
   Fiat said it will name the management and the headquarters
location for the joint venture after the transaction is
finalized. Ford officials said they were uncertain how long
it would take to reach a definitive agreement and to obtain
governmental approvals.
   The merger isn't the first time that Ford and Fiat have
sought to work together. In the mid-1980s, talks on combining
their car operations in Europe took place but ultimately led
nowhere. However, for the past four years the two companies
have successfully run a heavy-truck joint venture in Britain.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   FIAT S.p.A. is based in Turin, Italy. In yesterday's
edition, the location of the Italian automobile and
industrial products maker's headquarters was misidentified.
   (WSJ Aug. 2, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, July 31, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/16% high, 7 15/16% low, 8% near closing
bid, 8 1/16% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks
for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.775% 30 to 44 days; 7.725% 45 to 59 days;
7.675% 60 to 89 days; 7.625% 90 to 119 days; 7.60% 120 to 149
days; 7.55% 150 to 179 days; 7.50% 180 to 209 days; 7.45% 210
to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 7.88%
30 days; 7.83% 60 days; 7.75% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.67% one month; 7.69% two
months; 7.72% three months; 7.89% six months; 8.08% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 7.90% one month; 7.90% three months;
7.90% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.81% 30 days; 7.72% 60 days; 7.65%
90 days; 7.58% 120 days; 7.51% 150 days; 7.47% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8% - 7 7/8% one month; 8% - 7
7/8% two months; 7 15/16% - 7 13/16% three months; 7 15/16% -
7 13/16% four months; 7 15/16% - 7 13/16% five months; 7
15/16% - 7 13/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8% one month; 7
15/16% three months; 7 15/16% six months; 8% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, July 30, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.50% 13 weeks; 7.37% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 9.78%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.375%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.72%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.40%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.73%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Philadelphia Inquirer's Roberts Retires,
   Having Led Paper to Market Dominance
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   KRI WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Eugene Roberts Jr., the editor who led the Philadelphia
Inquirer to 17 Pulitzer Prizes in 18 years and to dominance
in its market, is retiring.
   Mr. Roberts said in an interview that he wanted to quit
three years ago, but family responsibilities and a sweetened
contract changed his mind. "Now the time has come," he told a
somber Inquirer newsroom yesterday. Mr. Roberts, 58 years
old, is executive editor of the Inquirer and president of
Philadelphia Newspapers Inc., a unit of Miami-based
Knight-Ridder Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Knight-Ridder named Maxwell King, 46, to succeed Mr.
Roberts, effective Sept. 1, but at a lower rank. Mr. King, a
Roberts protege and an editor and executive with the paper
since 1972, will hold the posts of editor of the Inquirer and
executive vice president of Philadelphia Newspapers, which
also publishes the Philadelphia Daily News. He joined the
company as an editor in 1972 and has been vice president of
consumer marketing and distribution since 1987.
   Revered by many journalists as an uncompromising editor
willing to spend large sums of money to get a story, Mr.
Roberts directed the Inquirer's surge in circulation, revenue
and profit over the past two decades. By 1982, the Inquirer's
ascendancy was complete -- its arch-rival, the Philadelphia
Bulletin, closed, and Philadelphia became a monopoly market
for Knight-Ridder, said John Morton, newspaper-industry
analyst for Lynch Jones &amp; Ryan.
   Mr. Morton estimated that the Inquirer will earn roughly
$70 million in operating profit this year, on revenue of
about $460 million. The paper accounts for about 20% of
Knight-Ridder's total operating profit and revenue from
newspapers, he said.
   "Gene Roberts spent the money that it took to make the
Inquirer one of this country's leading newspapers," Mr.
Morton said.
   Mr. Roberts will remain a consultant to Knight-Ridder. He
said that he wants to travel more and may take a university
teaching post.
   Reporters for the Inquirer said there was palpable relief
in the newsroom yesterday when Knight-Ridder named a veteran
Inquirer editor to the top editorial post. But several
staffers expressed doubt that Mr. Roberts is retiring simply
because he wants to travel and teach. They said budget cuts
at the Inquirer, which is suffering from the advertising
slump hitting all U.S. papers, have made it increasingly
difficult for Mr. Roberts to pursue the type of hard-hitting,
investigative journalism that has earned him and the Inquirer
their renown.
   "I have no doubt that given the financial pressures, the
{editor's} job has to be incredibly taxing, and a little of
the fun has to be gone," said Frederic Tulsky, a reporter
with the Inquirer since 1979 and one of its Pulitzer Prize
winners.
   "It is certainly true that things are tighter this year
and there's a {budget} freeze on," Mr. Roberts said. "But I
think {Knight-Ridder} has shown restraint. We've had no cuts
since the freeze came in late last year."
   Mr. Roberts said he's stepping down now, so "I'll still be
young enough to get back in if I get bored. Right now,
boredom sounds wonderful."
   Sam McKeel, who worked closely with Mr. Roberts for 17
years at the Inquirer and was the paper's publisher from 1986
to 1989, said he was surprised to hear of Mr. Roberts's early
retirement.
   "Gene and I used to go bonefishing together," said Mr.
McKeel, who left the Inquirer last year to become president
and chief executive officer of Sun-Times Co. in Chicago.
"When you bonefish, you talk about a lot of things. We never
had a conversation of any substance about retiring."
   But James Batten, Knight-Ridder's chairman and chief
executive, said the company had to persuade Mr. Roberts not
to retire three years ago. Mr. Batten acknowledged the
financial pressures squeezing the Inquirer -- and all the
chain's papers. But he said, "We never had a budget
conclusion that Gene and we couldn't live with."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   ...But Is It Art -- or Trash?
   ----
   By Danielle Crittenden
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- In my Brooklyn neighborhood lives a crazy man
who stands outside the Jehovah's Witnesses' Kingdom Hall
every morning to scream a long abusive monologue. He doesn't
call himself a performance artist, which might explain why he
hasn't yet been awarded a grant from the NEA. Lincoln Center
hasn't put him on stage yet either.
   Given time, his luck might change. Certainly it did for a
woman named Karen Finley, who played to a packed house at the
"Serious Fun]" festival at Lincoln Center's Alice Tully Hall
on Sunday evening. Ms. Finley is one of the four performance
artists whose grants were denied by the NEA National Council
after they'd been approved by peer review committees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ms. Finley was dropped by a nervous NEA after Washington
columnists Rowland Evans and Robert Novak reported that she
took off her clothes on stage and smeared her naked body with
chocolate icing.
   Nothing sells shows in America like the threat of
censorship: Tickets to both of Ms. Finley's Lincoln Center
shows sold out quickly. The Lincoln Center audience cheered
when Ms. Finley appeared on stage. Wearing red gum boots and
a shiny party dress, she made a few jokes about requests for
product endorsements from Hershey's and Duncan Hines. Almost
immediately, though -- this was, after all, a serious-fun
festival -- she launched into the first of her monologues,
delivered fully clothed from a spotlit rocking chair.
   With a strange combination of intense self-pity and
megalomania, she declaimed that the NEA's decision to cut her
grant would lead to the end of all art in America. The Jesse
Helms-sponsored Art Police would shut down an exhibit of
early American quilts after they find a menstrual stain. The
walls of art galleries would be stripped of their obscene Van
Goghs and Picassos. Glass blowing would be prohibited as
homoerotic. Faced with artistic bankruptcy, the conservatives
who created the Art Police would gather on the White House
lawn, frantically trying to paint pictures to replace the art
they've destroyed. But the Art Police would turn on their
masters, and for his finger-painting efforts, Mr. Helms would
be arrested and executed. "A good life is one in which they
think you never piss, yeah . . . A good life is one in which
they think you never piss, yeah . . ."
   Ms. Finley recited this monologue, and those that
followed, in two vocal ranges: angry, chest-thumping
shouting; and low, trance-like mumbling in a mysterious
Southern tone (she's from Illinois), which ended each
sentence with phrases such as, "oh yes, chile" and "don'
worry, chile." She seemed alternately possessed by a
television evangelist and the ghost of Elvis Presley. Ms.
Finley sometimes would interrupt herself to laugh at her
jokes or to hush a member of the audience who chuckled at
something she didn't mean to be funny. During the sadder
bits, she'd cover her face with her hands and weep
uncontrollably.
   The nudity that so troubled the NEA National Council
occurred in act two ("Why Can't This Veal Calf Walk"). First
she broke away from her monologues to toss candies to the
audience, and give away old T-shirts she'd signed in Magic
Marker. Then Ms. Finley removed her party dress, revealing a
lacy black camisole and bright red underwear. "This is what
they're afraid of]" she hooted. She poured two cups of green
gelatin into the brassiere of the camisole, and strutted
around the stage jiggling her enlarged breasts. She peeled
off the negligee but not the underwear. She smeared chocolate
icing over her bare breasts and legs (the icing represents
human feces). Next she took another bowl, this one filled
with alfalfa sprouts, and stuck the sprouts all over the
icing. She shoved a big handful into the crotch of her
underwear. Little pieces fell out during the rest of the act.
The sprouts (which represent sperm) gave her a green, shaggy
coat. Next she sprinkled candy valentine hearts on to the
sticky chocolate, and plastered herself with Christmas tree
tinsel. It wasn't clear what this was supposed to represent.
She kept her gum boots on throughout.
   All the while, she hollered her stream of thought: "I'm
more than a hole, more than a hole, yeah . . . the woman is
private property, the woman is private property . . . no
affordable child care in this country . . . I hate
Independence Day, I want Dependence Day . . . my life is
worth nothing . . . I hate what I love . . . Trump would
rather build the world's tallest building than the tallest
low-income housing . . ."
   She likened the Kennedy men to the defendants on trial for
raping and beating the Central Park jogger. Still decked out
in tinsel, she equated the U.S. with Nazi Germany -- "in
principle we are not so very different . . . our ovens are
just at a slower speed . . . some want the homeless dead . .
. we won't give away clean needles . . . we keep our victims
ready, yeah, we keep our victims ready, too . . . our
Auschwitz -- Bensonhurst, Tawana Brawley . . . the white male
wall is crumbling . . . we as the ovens, we as the victims .
. . William Buckley, George Will, Goering and Goebbels . . ."
   For the last act, "Departure," Ms. Finley wrapped her
candy-coated body in a white sheet. She sat beside a bed and
crooned about death, homosexuality, AIDS -- the government's
fault -- and the intense misery of the black sheep ("We are
sheep/with no shepherd/We are sheep with no straight &amp;
narrow/We are sheep with no meadow . . ."). Beating her chest
with her fists, she wailed and cried, "the silence on the end
of the phone, the silence on the end of the phone."
   Ms. Finley received a standing ovation; afterward the
audience members milled about in the lobby, hashing over
their feelings about subsidies to the arts while a lone man
stood outside holding a sign, "The world is a mess."
   Ms. Finley often has dared NEA chairman John Frohnmayer to
come and judge the merit of her act for himself. If he did,
he'd probably find it less controversial than he expected.
Her opinions, ultimately, might have been borrowed from
Village Voice editorials. Her bare breasts, covered in
chocolate, hardly would qualify for more than a PG-13 rating.
The only thing Ms. Finley teaches us to look at differently
is chocolate icing.
   And, I guess, alfalfa sprouts.
   ---
   Ms. Crittenden is a free-lance writer.
   (See related story: "Fun Gets Serious at Lincoln
Center..." -- WSJ Aug. 1, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financial Loss:
   Big Banks Are Plagued
   By a Gradual Erosion
   Of Key Profit Centers
   ---
   Their Corporate, Auto Loans
   Dwindle, and Credit Cards
   Get Tougher Competition
   ---
   Wave of Mergers May Loom
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease and Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   CMB BT CCI BK ONE MNC MIDL NCB JPM H.HKS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bank bashing is big these days.
   Flying squads of regulators are forcing banks to own up to
billions in questionable loans. Rating agencies are
downgrading banks' credit ratings. Investors are dumping bank
stocks, driving prices to unprecedented lows against the
overall market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An overreaction? Hardly.
   While the real-estate boom that fueled bank profits in the
1980s has gone bust, the banking industry's woes run far
deeper than one of its periodic property slumps. What worries
analysts, investors and bankers themselves is the
ever-bleaker long-term outlook at many banks.
   "The real-estate problems could last 18 months or maybe
two years," says Thomas Hanley, a bank analyst at Salomon
Brothers Inc. "But after that, where does the profitability
of the industry come from? It's not a pretty picture."
   The basic problem: One by one, the traditional wellsprings
of bank profits are drying up. Lending to America's blue-chip
corporations, once the big banks' lucrative "raison d'etre",
has dwindled. The merger-and-acquisition mania, with its fat
fees for lenders, has faded, leaving banks stuck with too
many loans to dangerously leveraged companies. Even booming
businesses such as credit cards are under siege from powerful
new competitors. And billions of dollars in bad debts to
developing countries still haunt many big banks.
   The banking climate is "as difficult as any in the history
of the global financial-services industry," says Thomas G.
Labrecque, the president of Chase Manhattan Corp., parent of
the nation's second-largest bank. Mr. Labrecque is a man who
knows. Chase celebrated his pending promotion to the
chairmanship last month with a shakeup that could cost as
many as 3,000 of the bank's 41,600 employees their jobs.
   But not only bank employees are at risk. The nation's
banking system is built on confidence, and if, as seems
likely, banks' problems linger for years, that confidence
will be sorely tested. A weakened banking industry, in turn,
could hurt the global competitiveness of many smaller U.S.
companies, which would find borrowing more difficult.
   Despite all the bad news, however, the banking industry
isn't on the verge of a collapse like that of the savings and
loan industry, which has left taxpayers saddled with a
multibillion-dollar bailout bill. Many analysts predict that
a big bank or two may fail this year or next and that the
already-skimpy profits of most big banks are likely to get
skimpier. But compared with S&amp;Ls, banks have a much larger
capital cushion to absorb economic shocks, they are better
regulated and managed, and they aren't rife with the outright
fraud that undermined some S&amp;Ls.
   Although the groaning over the big banks' plight focuses
on bad loans, the real problem isn't necessarily the loans
made in the past. Rather, it's the good loans that banks
aren't making now. Plain-vanilla corporate lending used to be
the big banks' main business, but years ago major
corporations began seeking cheaper financing in the debt and
securities markets.
   Now, according to Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., a top-rated
industrial company can raise funds by selling commercial
paper, short-term IOUs, at only 7.85% to 7.95%, slightly less
than the 7.9% to 8% that a top-rated bank would pay. A
corporation just a step down in the ratings would pay 8% to
8.1%, while a similarly rated bank's cost would be 8.2% to
8.3%. Add in the bank's operating costs and a profit, and it
clearly will have a hard time lending to such an industrial
company.
   Faced with tough competition, big banks have had to cut
their lending rates, and that, in turn, cuts into profits. In
the 1980s, banks earned an anemic 7% to 12% return-on-equity
on loans to large corporations, says James McCormick,
president of First Manhattan Consulting Group. And despite
the efforts to trim rates, corporate lending has declined
steadily as a percentage of total bank loans, and banks have
tried to push such fee-generating services as helping
corporations manage their cash and issuing letters of credit.
But in those fields, too, they face intense competition and
razor-thin profit margins.
   Only now is the damage from the erosion of banks'
corporate-lending business becoming apparent, however. For a
while, the extent of the problem was obscured by the rich
fees and high margins that banks earned by financing the
1980s merger boom. These highly leveraged transactions helped
swell banks' average returns to a more respectable 14% to
18%. The low-margin corporate lending "was just being
subsidized," Mr. McCormick says.
   But as a result of muscling into investment banking, the
big banks are now stuck with some of the same problems facing
their cousins on Wall Street -- highly paid deal makers with
an acute shortage of deals to make. "Banks went out and put
together these talented teams of brain surgeons, but now they
have few patients," Mr. McCormick says.
   At Bankers Trust, one of the biggest banks to adopt a
merchant-banking strategy, Ralph McDonald, head of corporate
finance, acknowledges that the slack pace of new deals is
hurting the bank. But he expects a quick recovery. He
believes that Bankers Trust can increase its European
business by brokering some of the cross-border mergers and
acquisitions that are likely as the Common Market drops trade
barriers in 1992 and Eastern Europe struggles to shape up. In
addition, Bankers Trust, like most investment firms,
anticipates hefty fees from helping U.S. companies
restructure to lighten the enormous debt burdens stemming
from the merger and buy-out binge.
   "There's going to be a demand for brain surgeons to repair
other peoples' botched operations," Mr. McDonald says.
   A resurgence in deal making is especially critical to
Bankers Trust and J.P. Morgan &amp; Co., two big banks that lack
consumer-banking operations. For many other banks, however,
consumer banking has largely offset the decline in corporate
lending. But consumer banking is a highly competitive game.
   In recent years, for example, banks' long-profitable
auto-loan business has been losing ground to the auto makers'
captive finance units, such as Ford Motor Credit Corp. and
General Motors Acceptance Corp. Just as in the corporate-loan
field, many banks have been hurt in auto lending because they
now have lower credit ratings than the auto makers' units and
thus can't raise money as cheaply.
   Auto lending has become so difficult that Marine Midland
Banks Inc., the nation's fourth-largest auto lender after the
three big captive auto-finance companies, is throwing in the
towel. Marine Midland is negotiating the sale of its
auto-finance subsidiary, which holds about $6 billion of auto
loans, to Ford Motor Co.
   Credit cards are the current, often-lucrative fad among
big banks. Citicorp, the nation's largest credit-card issuer,
earned $600 million in 1989 from credit cards. But a
successful card operation requires huge investments in
technology and huge outlays for marketing; for this reason,
many smaller banks have sold their credit-card portfolios to
bigger banks.
   Over the past five years or so, the credit-card business
"has become a game of economies of scale," says Robert H.
Burke, general manager of Bank of New York's credit-card
operation. "In effect, you're running a factory, and the more
volume you can push through your fixed costs, the better the
profits are." Augmented by the recent purchase of a
650,000-account credit-card portfolio from Houston-based
First City Bank, the Bank of New York's card operation has
grown since the beginning of 1989 to $3.8 billion in
outstanding charges from $2.6 billion.
   Moreover, big new credit-card players, such as American
Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. and Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., are
taking on the banks. In just four months, AT&amp;T has signed up
more than a million Visa and MasterCard accounts with its
offer of no-fee cards and discount long-distance phone calls.
Bankers profess no great concern about AT&amp;T's entry into the
field, but some banks are challenging it in court. And within
a few weeks, Citicorp countered by offering cheap credit-card
calls through MCI Communications Corp.
   Through all this, the increase in problem loans continues
to plague banks. Witness how some premier banks scrambled to
bail out Donald Trump after he failed to meet debt payments;
the banks had already lent the real-estate developer hundreds
of millions of dollars without requiring any collateral.
Real-estate problems continue to mount in New England and New
York, and now the highflying California real-estate market is
losing altitude.
   "It's very difficult at this stage of the cycle to
understand what the losses will be to the banks," says Judah
S. Kraushaar, a bank analyst at Merrill Lynch. He notes that
in the 1970s real-estate crunch, some banks lost 30% of the
principal of their real-estate loans -- and that was without
an overhang of foreclosed S&amp;L properties.
   Also dragging down bank profits are the Third World loans.
Eight years after the loans began going sour, U.S. banks are
still stuck with more than $40 billion of them. Citicorp
Chairman John Reed argues that although his bank still holds
some $8 billion of Third World loans -- the biggest one-bank
total -- the problem is, for all practical purposes, behind
it.
   Regulators and investors disagree. Federal regulators
recently demanded that banks write off 20% of the money still
owed them by Brazil. That won't hurt some big banks, such as
J.P. Morgan, that have hefty reserve coverage for the loans,
but it will cut deeply into banks with less coverage --
Citicorp among them.
   Still lurking in the wings are an estimated $55 billion of
loans stemming from the wave of mergers, acquisitions and
buy-outs. Many of these once-glamorous leveraged deals have
been turned by the sluggish economy into desperately shaky
operations struggling to meet debt payments.
   With all the banking problems, it isn't surprising that
the S&amp;L crisis is never far from bank regulators' minds.
Signs of trouble late last year in the once-thriving New
England real-estate market set the Comptroller of the
Currency, the principal regulator of nationally chartered
banks, off on a binge of so-called targeted real-estate
examinations aimed at forcing banks to identify shaky
real-estate loans. As the property slump spread beyond New
England, the vigor of the examinations increased.
   Other agencies are getting tougher, too. With S&amp;L fraud so
rampant, the Securities and Exchange Commission recently
required Ohio's Banc One Corp., a highly respected regional
bank, to put this disclaimer on the front of its prospectus
for a 10-million-share sale: "The shares of common stock
offered hereby are not savings accounts, deposits or other
obligations of the bank or savings association and are not
insured by the FDIC, Bank Insurance Fund or any other
government agency."
   The SEC says such warnings to investors will now be
standard for all bank securities issues; so will tougher
reviews of offering documents. A Banc One spokesman comments,
"This was a very, very thorough review. They had a prepared
set of questions that we had to reply to, even though many
didn't pertain to us."
   As banks' financial performance has eroded, credit-rating
agencies have been merciless in downgrading bank debt. Of the
nation's 50 largest banks, only one, Bank of America, has
been upgraded in the past six months; many more have been
downgraded. Such giants as Citicorp, Chase Manhattan and
Chemical Banking have lower ratings than many of their
potential corporate customers.
   Both MNC Financial Corp., the parent of the biggest bank
in the Baltimore-Washington area, and Midlantic Corp., based
in Edison, N.J., have endured the ignominy of having their
debt classified as "junk." Trading in Midlantic debt "is
virtually by appointment," says Ann L. Robinson, a bond
analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp. And
because of investor anxiety, NCNB Corp., another large
regional bank, had to halt a $150 million private offering of
preferred stock. That forced NCNB to drop plans to bid for
Miami-based CenTrust Savings Bank.
   Bankers, in turn, complain that regulators are too harsh
and ratings agencies too finicky. Such clampdowns force banks
to increase their loan-loss reserves, write off more loans
and increase their capital levels -- to the detriment of
already-sick profit margins.
   Although none of the big banks have been forced by the
mounting problems to alter long-range strategies, those
strategies are being subordinated as bank managers scramble
to meet the crisis of the moment. Personnel layoffs and
retreats from some lines of business have become common.
Several thousand bank employees have already lost their jobs,
mostly in New England and New York, and thousands more will
be let go as banks such as Chase and Manufacturers Hanover
implement announced cost-cutting plans.
   But however unpleasant cutbacks are, many bank executives
find even more dismaying having to think about what most
experts, and bankers themselves, agree is the real long-term
solution to the industry's ills: consolidation.
   With more than 12,600 banks, the U.S. simply has far more
than it needs. Overcapacity wasn't a problem when banking
laws gave banks virtual oligopolies in their communities. But
the liberalization of interstate banking laws and the success
of nonbank competitors such as money-market funds, securities
firms and finance arms of industrial companies have given
savers and borrowers new choices.
   Now, bankers have to consider the once unthinkable:
mergers with cross-town rivals. For instance, a merger of
Chase, Chemical and Manufacturers Hanover might reduce
overhead by as much as $700 million a year. But it's a rare
bank chairman who would be willing to hand over the reins to
a former rival.
   Nevertheless, many analysts expect that once current
real-estate problems have bottomed out, market forces will
eventually push many banks into consolidation. U.S.
Comptroller of the Currency Robert Clarke predicts that the
number of U.S. banks will drop to fewer than 11,000 in the
next year and a half.
   That probably would still be too many. Although no one
suggests that the U.S. banking system should dwindle to just
six big banks, as Canada's has, thousands more institutions
probably must vanish for banking to prosper again.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Siliconix Inc.:
   Daimler-Benz Unit Agrees
   To Invest Funds in Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   G.DAI SILIQ
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Siliconix Inc. said AEG Aktiengesellschaft, a subsidiary
of Daimier-Benz AG, agreed to invest $13 million in it and
cancel a $2 million secured note.
   In April, Siliconix filed for reorganization under Chapter
11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code. The Santa Clara, Calif.,
company, which makes semiconductors, said the accord with the
unit of Daimier-Benz must be approved by the bankruptcy
court.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement would give the Daimier-Benz unit an 80%
share of Siliconix, leaving remaining shareholders with 20%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Real Estate:
   Disney Dreams Up New California Park
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<LP>

</LP>
<TEXT>
   LONG BEACH, Calif. -- Walt Disney Co. unveiled preliminary
plans for its third major U.S. theme park development, "Port
Disney," a proposed $2.3 billion waterfront resort in this
city of 400,000, 20 miles south of downtown Los Angeles.
   The development, which Disney says it will build only if
it can cut the right deal with government officials, would
include five hotels with nearly 4,000 rooms, a
retail/entertainment center and a theme park to be called
"DisneySea," centered on a cluster of futuristic bubbles
called "Oceana."
   The plans include a whole new set of creations from
Disney's "Imagineering" unit, with names such as Mysterious
Island, Pirate Island, Nemo's Lava Cruiser and Heroes'
Harbor. The complex would include the world's largest
aquarium, a Caribbean lagoon, a Grecian village and an Asian
floating market. Guests would be lowered in a steel cage into
a tank full of sharks.
   The plan, laid out in a 70-page booklet and submitted to
meet two deadlines on options on city land, also includes a
waterfront promenade, a "port" with ferry service and harbor
excursions, a marina and public parkland, and marine research
facilities.
   But negotiations with bevies of city, state and federal
officials are yet to come, and Disney is coyly saying it
might not go to Long Beach at all but instead build a second
gated attraction 15 miles away in Anaheim, adjacent to
Disneyland.
   As if to remind Long Beach officials that "Port Disney"
isn't a foregone conclusion, a report surfaced over the
weekend that an Anaheim plan being readied for next year
includes among its concepts a theme park similar to Epcot
Center, part of Walt Disney World near Orlando, Fla.
   "We have not yet begun discussions about how to structure
the financial arrangements," said Alan G. Epstein, Disney
Development Co. vice president. Disney Chairman Michael
Eisner said in January that the company would build one new
attraction, not both. "It depends which community wants us
more," he said.
   Disney will begin "community briefings" on the plan this
month, but so far no organized opposition seems to have
emerged. The complex could attract 10 million visitors in its
first year, Mr. Epstein said.
   Once a seedy Navy town with peep shows and tattoo parlors,
Long Beach is newly fat with Japanese development money,
drawn by a seaside location fit snugly between the Los
Angeles basin and Orange County. The port of Long Beach is
part of the nation's largest port complex.
   Nevertheless, the city still hopes Disney will help bail
it out of a host of urban problems: a dearth of popular
retail complexes (the city has no major shopping mall) and
the resulting weak sales tax revenue, sprawling low income
neighborhoods full of drugs and crime, the challenge of
integrating a burgeoning community of new immigrants,
including the largest Cambodian population outside Cambodia,
and declining income from city-owned oil wells.
   Traffic may be one of the major incentives for Disney to
come to Long Beach rather than to Anaheim: Disneyland is
located near heavily trafficked thoroughfares, whereas the
Long Beach Freeway is one of the least-used freeways in the
Los Angeles area. Even so, the plan requires that two lanes
be added to it. The plan also calls for the sewer system to
be expanded, natural gas pipelines upgraded, and other
infrastructure improvements.
   Long Beach port officials said the permitting and review
process is expected to take two years to complete. Then, up
to 250 acres of landfill would have to be constructed, which
would take another three years, Mr. Epstein said. In all, it
would be "at least 10 years" before the complex would be open
to the public.
   By owning hotels and operating a retail complex in Long
Beach, Disney would avoid the situation in Anaheim that still
galls it: Because it didn't own the land surrounding
Disneyland, independent motels and souvenir shops sprouted
like weeds around the park. On its 28,000 acres in Florida,
Disney urges visitors to buy a four-day pass and never leave
the grounds.
   Anaheim, however, is "optimistic" about winning a new
Disney park, said City Manager James Ruth. "We've had a
35-year working relationship with Disney which has been very
productive for both of us," he said. "We've demonstrated an
ability to manage tourism."
   Disney gained a foothold in Long Beach when it bought the
72% of Wrather Corp. it didn't already own in two
transactions for about $200 million in 1987. They included
the lease on the Queen Mary and the Spruce Goose, Howard
Hughes's massive flying boat, both of which are tourist
attractions in Long Beach.
   In Disney's proposed park, the fate of the Queen Mary,
currently operated as a tour and hotel, is up in the air. The
Spruce Goose isn't included in Disney's plans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Prayer and Politics:
   A Landmark Church
   Famed for Activism
   Faces Tougher Times
   ---
   New York's Riverside, Long
   A National Pulpit, Lacks
   Money and Old Influence
   ---
   Will Pentecostal Spirit Help?
   ---
   By R. Gustav Niebuhr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- If liberal Protestantism had a Vatican,
Riverside Church would be its St. Peter's. Perched
cathedral-like on the high ground between Manhattan's Harlem
and Upper West Side, Riverside since its founding nearly 60
years ago has been committed to what once was known as the
"Social Gospel."
   During the 1930s, Riverside's famous pastor, the Rev.
Harry Emerson Fosdick, exhorted millions of American families
via network radio to "work together in unheavenly places" to
help the poor and needy. During the late 1970s and the 1980s,
William Sloane Coffin made the church a center of protest
against racism, militarism and nuclear weaponry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Today, non-denominational Riverside and the movement it
represents have fallen on hard times.
   Liberal white Protestants -- among them Presbyterians,
Episcopalians and Methodists, who dominated the nation's
religious mainstream for much of the 20th century -- now find
themselves short on members and struggling for recognition.
Their voices are all but lost as evangelicals, Roman
Catholics and black Protestants have gained in relative
strength.
   On the surface, little seems to have changed here at
Riverside. In its sanctuary, inspired by Chartres cathedral,
the glow from towering stained glass still softens into a
reverent gloom. The light plays across a chancel screen
carved with 70 Christian heroes from John the Baptist to J.S.
Bach. A nine-ton limestone-block pulpit, carved with the
figures of five prophets, still offers the famous and
powerful one of the most coveted places to speak in
Christendom. Nelson Mandela was the latest of many
dignitaries to take the pulpit.
   But today, instead of a network, a single New York radio
station broadcasts Riverside's taped services -- at 5 a.m. on
Sundays. Debt, inflation and investment losses have shrunk
its endowment, supplied by John D. Rockefeller Jr., from $120
million in the late 1970s to about half that now. Over the
years, most of its richest members have deserted.
   To keep operating, Riverside in 1988 was forced to reduce
its yearly budget by nearly 20% to $6.4 million. It
eventually laid off 40 of its 150 staffers. Last April, a
consultant warned the church that to regain a sound financial
footing it must double its average attendance to 3,000
people, recruit younger members and get more money from
everybody.
   In the view of old-line Riversiders, however, the church's
waning influence nearly dwarfs its money troubles. "The
issues that unified everyone at Riverside in the 1980s have
evaporated," says Donald H. Elliott, a longtime member and
former trustee of the church. Fran Massey, a former deacon,
says a new kind of worshiper with little taste for an
"action-oriented" church is being attracted to Riverside.
"Now, perhaps, we're attracting people who are looking for a
haven," she says. "There's nothing wrong with that -- but
it's not Riverside."
   The most prominent newcomer is Riverside's pastor, the
Rev. James A. Forbes Jr., a Baptist minister highly regarded
in religious circles but little-known outside them. A year
after his appointment, some New York ministers are still
surprised at the choice, in no small part because Riverside
had a tradition of pastoring by Northern whites.
   Mr. Forbes, 54, who was professor of preaching at nearby
Union Theological Seminary, describes himself as a member of
"triple minority" -- a black and a Southerner with roots in
pentecostalism, a tradition that emphasizes intensely
personal religious experience, often through fervent singing,
clapping and speaking in tongues.
   In Mr. Forbes's view, pentecostal fervor -- refined and
intellectualized for middle-class tastes -- could help
re-energize Riverside's social activism. He says he told the
church's search committee last year that he "might have
something which, combined with what was the tradition of this
place, could be a dynamite combination."
   Others at Riverside say they are still waiting for the
explosion. "I just feel we're kind of standing still," says
Ms. Massey. "Jim Forbes has been with us a whole year now,
and we still don't seem to be moving in any particular
direction."
   Such comments reflect the powerful grip that Mr. Coffin's
activism still exerts on Riverside's flock, even though the
former pastor has been gone nearly three years.
   Arriving at the church in 1977, he brought with him a
national reputation for his opposition, as chaplain at Yale
University, to the Vietnam war. In sharp contrast to the
reflective and affable Mr. Forbes, Mr. Coffin is remembered
as spontaneous, abrasive and so audacious that he once opened
a sermon by warning a pair of federal agents that he would
have TV cameras at the church "in 15 minutes" if they
attempted to arrest Guatemalan refugees being sheltered
there. "Bill Coffin was larger than life," says Geoff Martin,
vice chairman of Riverside's council.
   Mr. Coffin's brusqueness and his obsession with politics
at times alienated even his supporters. Still, says the Rev.
Eugene E. Laubach, the church's minister of parish life,
"they loved the fact that he had a national and international
reputation."
   While millions of Americans rallied to the idea of a
nuclear freeze in the early 1980s, Mr. Coffin's Riverside was
squarely in the lead. Hundreds of new members flocked to the
church. But the spotlight faded as the Cold War began to
wane. And in December 1987 Mr. Coffin left to head an
anti-war organization.
   These days, Riverside plays host to a crazy-quilt of
liberal causes. After Sunday services, worshipers taking
coffee and cake in the lounge find themselves encircled by
the information booths of nine different "task forces."
They're pushing boycotts, mounting letter-writing campaigns
on issues from Central America to South Africa, and promoting
black, Hispanic and homosexual causes. There's even a
right-wing group, the Men's Class, a venerable but shadowy
organization that campaigned hard for Mr. Coffin's ouster and
continues to denounce him in its bimonthly newsletter.
   Mr. Forbes acknowledges that somehow he must knit such
groups into a common cause without stifling their creative
impulses. The first step, he says, is the "spiritual
revitalization" in the church. "If the Gospel I am talking
about is true," he says, "it ought to be able to function in
the midst of chaos and confusion, because that's where it's
needed."
   Born in rural North Carolina the son of a minister in the
pentecostal United Holy Church of America, Mr. Forbes
originally set his sights on becoming a physician. He changed
plans while at Howard University, after a series of incidents
that culminated, he says, in his hearing the voice of God
speaking to him through the music of a Tchaikovsky symphony.
   He went on to attend Union Theological Seminary, across
the street from Riverside. After graduation, he returned to
the South, eventually to head a conservative congregation
that he tried to prod into joining the civil-rights movement.
He was arrested during sit-ins -- as he was again this decade
during anti-apartheid demonstrations in New York.
   In June, as he marked his first anniversary in Riverside's
pulpit, Mr. Forbes began sketching out a vast new project for
the church. Urban problems, particularly race relations, are
replacing war and peace as the crucial issues in the 1990s,
he says. Where better to address those questions than at
Riverside, whose members have worked hard since the 1960s to
integrate their church? The once overwhelmingly white
congregation is now almost evenly balanced between whites and
blacks along with smaller Hispanic and Asian minorities.
   Thus, he proposes that Riverside lead a broad effort to
create a "center for the health of the city," a think-tank of
sorts for religious leaders, academics and social activists
to meet and work on New York's problems. He hopes to offer
details to the congregation in October, when Riverside marks
its 60th anniversary.
   This approach seems rather academic, however, to many
Protestant social activists in New York. Black churches in
particular, whose members make up the overwhelming majority
of the city's Protestants, tend to value direct action to
further specific causes. Seventeen blocks north of Riverside,
at historic Abyssinian Baptist Church, the Rev. Calvin O.
Butts III repeatedly risked arrest this year as he led
members of his congregation through central Harlem, painting
over billboards that pitched cigarettes and alcohol to a
community suffering from high rates of cancer and liver
disease.
   "Evil has so gripped this city that God's people -- and
particularly God's prophets -- cannot afford to take a
laid-back, diplomatic style," says Mr. Butts. "We have got to
go in and turn over the tables of Herod."
   Mr. Butts, also a graduate of Union seminary, is
frequently sought out these days by print and television
journalists for his opinion on city issues. Many at Riverside
would like to see Mr. Forbes's words attract the same kind of
attention, says the Rev. Erik Kolbell, an associate minister
at the church. "We want to see Jim emerge as a major
Protestant figure in this city, who will be looked to in the
same way as the cardinal," he says, referring to New York
Roman Catholic archbishop John J. O'Connor, a frequent
newsmaker. But Mr. Kolbell wonders: "How do you market him?
What do you do?"
   At a minimum, some Riverside members say, Mr. Forbes could
spend more time critiquing capitalism than citing Christ.
Sandy Donaldson, the former head of the church's disarmament
program, says she supports Mr. Forbes, but she misses Mr.
Coffin's often overtly political preachings. "I personally
like the politics," she says, "and for me, being politically
active is being spiritually aware." Ms. Massey, the former
deacon, says momentous world events don't seem to find their
way into Mr. Forbes's preaching. "Even when the Berlin Wall
fell, there wasn't a mention of it in the Sunday sermon," she
says.
   Mr. Elliott, the former trustee, says Mr. Forbes is simply
trying to give his congregation a better grounding in the
Bible, out of his belief that social activism is best founded
on a thorough understanding of Scripture. Mr. Forbes,
soft-spoken as always, takes criticism in stride, saying
simply that Riverside gets "nervous when it does not have an
action program." Indeed, twice during the past year, some of
the church's more ardent members have trooped up to his
office to voice anger and worry over Riverside's direction.
   Some of those critics, however, now say they are growing
more comfortable with Mr. Forbes. "Jim is uniquely
compassionate and reflective and pastoral," says Liz
Gonzalez, who helped organize the meetings. "Most of us have
gotten over the idea that change comes overnight."
   Even before troubles beset Riverside, its pastor's role as
the national spokesman for religious liberalism was called
"the toughest job in Protestantism." Now, more so than ever
before, "you have to be really Superman," says Mr. Laubach.
"And even if you are Superman, you may not be able to make
it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Bond Yield
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government reported an average
yield of 10.764% at an auction of 700 million Canadian
dollars (US$607.5 million) of 10.75% bonds maturing March 15,
1998.
   Proceeds of the issue will be used for general government
purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Cap on AIDS Benefits Wins Legal Round
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus and Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR PG S
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge has ruled that an employer can cap AIDS
benefits for its employees under the federal statute
regulating employee benefits known as the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA. The decision has been
appealed.
   It is believed to be the first case to address the issue
of whether ERISA allows employers to amend their health plans
in response to medical claims submitted for a particular
illness.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   John McGann was diagnosed as having acquired immune
deficiency syndrome, or AIDS, in December 1987 and told his
employer, H &amp; H Music Co., Houston, of the diagnosis. Seven
months later, the company became self-insured and changed its
group medical care plan.
   Under the previous plan, employees diagnosed with AIDS
were entitled to as much as $1 million in benefits during
their lifetime. The new plan capped AIDS benefits at $5,000
and also discontinued benefits for chemical dependency.
   After learning about the changes, Mr. McGann filed a
discrimination lawsuit alleging that his employer's action
violated his rights under ERISA. He also sued Brook Mays
Music Co., Houston, which administers the plan, and General
American Life Insurance Co., St. Louis, Mo., which provided
excess risk coverage.
   U.S. District Judge Norman W. Black dismissed Mr. McGann's
lawsuit. In essence, the judge's ruling means that under
ERISA employers have the right to change or terminate their
medical plan even if they know about a particular employee's
illness. Judge Black found that the financial strain caused
by the plan had forced the company to make changes or end
health benefits for everyone in the company.
   And Judge Black said that H &amp; H Music had complied with
ERISA by providing employees with notice that the group
medical plan was subject to change from year to year.
   Employment lawyers say the case highlights a troubling
issue currently confronting corporations. The AIDS crisis has
left many companies unable to cope with the rising health
costs associated with the catastrophic illness, these lawyers
say.
   "If you have 40 people in a company and one has AIDS and
it's so expensive that no one can have insurance, then what
are you going to do? It's a disaster for a small mom-and-pop
operation faced with a $60,000 hospital bill for one
employee. And companies are facing that question every day,"
says Robert C. Christenson of the Atlanta firm of Fisher &amp;
Phillips, who has represented employers in such cases.
   A handful of states require health insurance policies to
include AIDS coverage. And, about 50% of the states have laws
barring discrimination in employment solely because a person
has AIDS. But employers who are self-insured are governed by
the federal ERISA law, which pre-empts those laws and doesn't
require employers to provide specific benefits in their
health plans.
   "This decision appears to validate a dangerous trend under
which employers attempt to circumvent the obligations
otherwise imposed on them by state law by going the
self-insurance route," says Thomas B. Stoddard, executive
director of Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, a legal
organization for lesbians and gay men and co-counsel for Mr.
McGann.
   Under the law, "H &amp; H had the right to do what they did.
They followed the law," says Mark Huvard of the Houston law
firm of Engelhardt Harberg &amp; Huvard, a lawyer for H &amp; H and
Brook Mays. A lawyer for General American said he wouldn't
comment because the case is pending. The plaintiff filed an
appeal last week in Houston.
   Mr. McGann's lawyers say they believe that ERISA bars
companies from discriminating in the granting of health
benefits.
   Says Donald Skipwith, a Houston solo practitioner who is
co-counsel for Mr. McGann: "In order to protect the group,
the defendants left an employee who had been part of that
group for years and years out in the cold."
   ---
   PROCTER &amp; GAMBLE SUED two Amway Corp. distributors.
   The Cincinnati-based consumer-products giant, eager to
quash rumors linking the company to Satanism, sued the
distributors for spreading the tales and launching boycotts
of P&amp;G brands.
   The lawsuit, filed in a federal district court in Topeka,
Kan., seeks an order to stop the distributors, James and
Linda Newton of Parsons, Kan., from circulating the rumors.
Procter &amp; Gamble also seeks compensatory damages of more than
$50,000 and unspecified punitive damages.
   Previously, P&amp;G has filed a dozen lawsuits related to the
devil-worship rumor, including actions against three other
Amway distributors. All were settled out of court, the
company said.
   The Newtons distributed brochures that accuse the company
of supporting the Church of Satan, P&amp;G alleged. The couple
also told others that P&amp;G's moon and stars logo is a Satanic
symbol and encouraged them to boycott P&amp;G products, according
to P&amp;G officials. The Newtons couldn't be reached for
comment.
   A spokeswoman for Amway, Ada, Mich., said its distributors
operate independently and declined to comment on the suit.
She said Amway has cooperated with P&amp;G in the past to squelch
rumors about Satanism.
   Distributors for Amway sell numerous products, including
detergents, cleaning and personal-care products. P&amp;G sells
leading brands in all those categories, such as Tide
detergent, Spic and Span cleaner and Pert Plus shampoo.
   ---
   A $100-A-YEAR ASSESSMENT is being fought by New Jersey
lawyers.
   New Jersey lawyers are upset about the state's new
automobile insurance reform package. The law, which went into
effect last March, requires all attorneys licensed in New
Jersey to pay a $100-a-year assessment for the privilege of
practicing in the state.
   The idea came from recently elected Gov. Jim Florio, a
Democrat who campaigned heavily on the promise to reform the
state's auto insurance system. Last March, he signed into law
a new system designed to cut premiums by 20%, partly by
eliminating the state-operated insurance pool for high-risk
drivers known as the Joint Underwriting Association.
   Where do the lawyers come in? Because of bad management,
the pool was $3.1 billion in debt. Insurance companies are
required to pay off $1.4 billion of the debt. But the new law
requires all groups that benefited financially from the prior
system also to chip in -- including doctors, podiatrists,
chiropractors, physical therapists, auto-body shops and each
of the state's 42,000 lawyers.
   The lawyers countered with a lawsuit. Now pending in New
Jersey State Taxation Court in Trenton, the suit contends
that the law is overbroad because it affects all lawyers, not
just those who practice personal injury and automobile
negligence cases. Law professors, judges, inactive attorneys,
even second-year judge's law clerks are all required to make
the payment, according to court pleadings filed by Newark
attorney Frederick B. Lacey; he is a former federal judge and
U.S. attorney who is representing the New Jersey State Bar
Association in the case.
   Last month, a New Jersey tax judge issued a temporary
restraining order requiring that all payments made by lawyers
to be held in an escrow until after a final hearing on the
new law's legality, tentatively scheduled for September.
   The Medical Society of New Jersey, which regulates
doctors, has a separate suit pending and a federal
class-action suit on behalf of all the professional groups
affected by the law is pending in a federal district court in
Camden, N.J.
   Several insurance companies, including Allstate Insurance
Co., the state's largest automobile insurer and a Sears,
Roebuck &amp; Co. unit, also are challenging the law.
   ---
   INSURER ORDERED to pay for AIDS treatment.
   In another case involving insurers and AIDS, a New York
state court in Manhattan ordered Empire Blue Cross &amp; Blue
Shield to pay for a bone-marrow transplant for a man who is
infected with the HIV virus, which causes AIDS. The insurer
had refused to pay for the $150,000 treatment, claiming it
was experimental. But Justice Elliott Wilk agreed with the
patient's attorneys that although the procedure may be new
for HIV patients, it is an appropriate therapy for rebuilding
the immune system.
   The transplant isn't expected to rid the patient,
47-year-old Tom Bradley, of the HIV infection, but doctors
believe it could improve his health for an additional two
years, said Evan Wolfson, an attorney with Lambda Legal
Defense and Legal Education Fund.
   Bone-marrow transplants are unlikely treatments for most
HIV patients because the procedure is usually performed only
when the patient has an identical twin who can act as donor.
Also, the treatment can be done only before the patient has
one of the opportunistic infections that often afflict HIV
patients.
   A spokesman for Empire said the company hasn't decided
whether to appeal the decision. He said the transplant hasn't
been used widely enough to have been proved "beneficial and
appropriate" for Mr. Bradley's condition.
   ---
   Wade Lambert and Milo Geyelin contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   S AXP KMB FRE FNM EUROP G.DGB U.ABB F.CFF UN UL
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report.
                                                                                                       

                      CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. -- $300 million of 9 1/4% notes due
Aug. 1, 1997, priced at 99.885 to yield 9.272%. The size of
the issue was increased from $250 million. The non-callable
notes were priced at a spread of 0.98 percentage point above
the Treasury's seven-year note. Rated single-A-1 by Moody's
Investors Service Inc. and single-A-plus by Standard &amp; Poor's
Corp., the issue will be sold through underwriters led by
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   American Express Credit Corp. -- $200 million of 8 5/8%
notes due Aug. 1, 1994, priced at 99.65 to yield 8.73%. The
non-callable notes were priced at 0.625 percentage point
above the Treasury's four-year note. Rated double-A-2 by
Moody's and double-A by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold through
underwriters led by Lehman Brothers.
   Kimberly-Clark Corp. -- $100 million of 9% notes, due Aug.
1, 2000, was priced at 99.64 to yield 9.055%. The
non-callable notes were priced at a spread of 0.70 percentage
point above the Treasury's 10-year note. Rated double-A-2 by
Moody's and double-A by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold through
underwriters led by Goldman Sachs.
                                                                                                       

                      MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

   Huntsville, Ala., Solid Waste Disposal Authority -- $87
million of solid waste disposal and resource recovery revenue
bonds, Series 1990, have been priced by a Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets group. The bonds were priced to yield from
6.40% in 1994 to 7.40% in 2014. They are rated triple-A by
Moody's and S&amp;P and are insured.
   Oklahoma Industries Authority -- $76.4 million of hospital
revenue bonds, Series 1990 A, have been priced by a Goldman
Sachs group. The total amount of the issue has been raised
slightly from $76 million. The bonds, for the Baptist Medical
Center of Oklahoma, yield from 6.20% in 1993 to 7.20% in
2014. Bonds due in 2000 and later are callable Aug. 15, 2000,
at 102, declining to par on Aug. 15, 2002.
                                                                                                       

                       MORTGAGE
                                                                                                       

   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $400 million of
subordinated callable debentures has been priced at par to
yield 9.15%. The securities are due Aug. 8, 2000, and are
callable on or after Aug. 8, 1995. The securities must be
purchased in minimum amounts of $5,000 with additional
increments of $5,000. The securities were priced at a spread
of about 0.80 percentage point over 10-year Treasury notes.
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $300 million of real
estate mortgage investment conduit securities is being
offered in 15 classes by UBS Securities, a unit of Union Bank
of Switzerland. The offering, Series FHLMC 190, is backed by
Freddie Mac 9 1/2% securities with a weighted average coupon
rate of 10.12% and weighted average remaining term to
maturity of 29.23 years. Pricing was at market levels.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
Remic securities is being offered in 14 classes by Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets. The offering, priced Friday through
Series 1990-101, is backed by Fannie Mae 9% securities.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
Remic securities is being offered in 16 classes by J.P.
Morgan Securities. The offering, Series 1990-102, is backed
by Fannie Mae 9% securities with a weighted average coupon
rate of 9.70% and weighted average remaining term to maturity
of 29.67 years. Full details on yields and prices weren't
immediatly available.
                                                                                                       

                       EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   West German government (sovereign) -- three billion marks
($1.89 billion) of 8 1/2% bonds due Aug. 21, 2000, at 100 1/2
to yield 8.42%, via Deutsche Bundesbank. Entire amount placed
via the fixed federal bond consortium.
   Unilever NV -- One billion French francs ($188 million) of
9 7/8% bonds due Sept. 4, 1997, priced at 101.40 to yield
9.97% less fees via BNP Capital Markets Ltd. Fees 1 7/8.
   Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank (West Germany) -- 250 million
marks of bonds with equity-purchase warrants attached for
Berliner Handels-und Frankfurter Bank stock with a 3 1/2%
coupon due Dec. 21, 1995, and priced at par, via Deutsche
Genossenschaftsbank. Each 1,000 mark bond carries two
warrants, exercisable from Oct. 2, 1990, to Dec. 1, 1995, to
buy two shares of BHF stock for 510 marks apiece. Each 10,000
mark bond carries 20 warrants to buy 20 shares of stock under
the same terms.
   Abbey National Treasury Services PLC (United Kingdom
parent) -- 150 million European currency units of 10 1/8%
bonds due Aug. 21, 1995, priced at 101 1/8 to yield 10 1/8%
less fees via Swiss Bank Corp. Guaranteed by Abbey National
PLC. Fees 1 7/8.
   Credit Foncier de France (France) -- 150 million European
currency units of 9 3/8% bonds due Dec. 27, 1999, priced at
98.97 via Societe Generale. Fungible with the original 150
million ECU issue launched in November 1989. Guaranteed by
the Republic of France.
   European Telecommunications Satellite Organization
(agency) -- 100 million European currency units of 10% bonds
due Aug. 28, 1992, priced at 101 1/8 via Dresdner Bank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First of America Bank Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   FOA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   KALAMAZOO, Mich. -- First of America Bank Corp. said it
completed the acquisition of PrimeBank of Grand Rapids,
Mich., in a transaction valued at about $32.3 million.
   An agreement to acquire the $427 million-asset federal
savings bank was announced in November 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   To-ga] To-ga]
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Pity Washington's poor budget summiteers. While they're
stuck debating how much more to tax a six-pack of Budweiser,
their fraternity brothers in Congress are throwing the
biggest party of the summer.
   Despite all the wailing about the "deficit," the spending
taps on Capitol Hill are wide open. The campus police (they
of the "no new tax" pledge) are nowhere in sight, so the
revelers have abandoned all self-restraint. There hasn't been
anything quite like this since John Belushi screamed "toga"
at Faber College. The Bush Administration seems not to want
to spoil the fun by pointing any fingers. Hapless taxpayers
are left asking where all the money went.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since George Bush put "tax revenue increases" on the table
last month, the House of Representatives has passed eight
appropriations bills worth $403.1 billion. That's about $41
billion or 11.4% more than last year, more than double the
inflation rate. The Housing and Veterans bill came in at a
whopping 17% over a year ago, apparently meant as a tribute
to the HUD scandal. The farm bill is rolling in at a record
$54 billion, while a Ways and Means subcommittee has created
a new $4.5 billion foster-care entitlement. Dan Rostenkowski
may curse the deficit, but don't say he doesn't know how to
have a good time.
   The farm bill captures the let's-get-busy nature of the
revels. In the House, a rare liberal-conservative coalition
tried to remove the worst subsidies, but "we got waxed,"
reports New York Democrat Tom Downey. Even an amendment to
deny crop subsidies to farmers earning more than $100,000
went down to defeat, though it would have saved $700 million
a year. In the Senate, a bipartisan attempt to trim the
ridiculous sugar subsidy by a mere two cents a pound (to 16
cents) also was routed.
   The only Members not enjoying the party are the nerds
trying to resist the peer pressure. After Illinois Republican
Harris Fawell voted to cut back one spending bill by a measly
2%, House appropriators denied a $17 million grant to Argonne
Laboratory in Mr. Fawell's district. Everyone else got the
message.
   Minnesota Democrat Tim Penny's proposal to cut each
appropriation bill by 2% lost all but once, much like earlier
efforts to cut by 10% and then 5%. Cheeky Republican Bob
Walker of Pennsylvania then moved to cut spending by
.0000000002%, or $19.90, but he lost too]
   What are the Members protecting? The Heritage Foundation's
Scott Hodge has compiled a list that reads like logrolling in
our time: $2.85 million for a fish farm in Stuttgart, Ark.;
$8 million for the U.S. Institute of Peace; $100,000 for an
Army Corps of Engineers investigation of Waikiki Beach (every
fraternity brother's dream); $8.5 million for a
high-occupancy-vehicle traffic demonstration project in
Virginia; and $50,000 for the national bicycle program
manager. And so on.
   About the only thing on the chopping block is defense,
with the exception of domestic military bases the Pentagon
doesn't want. The Stealth bomber has to go, but Democrat Gene
Taylor is holding onto his district's Mississippi Army
ammunition plant, just in case someone (say a GOP candidate)
invades the Gulf Coast. A "base closing bill" sponsored by
Democratic Reps. Les Aspin and Pat Schroeder is rigged with
enough bureaucratic tripwires to prevent most bases from ever
closing.
   We could go on, but suffice it to say that this is the
crowd President Bush wants to reach a budget "agreement"
with. The talks are stalled, so the latest line is that the
fault lies "within the White House." Reportedly, John Sununu
and Dick Darman are at odds, as if the President doesn't make
up his own mind.
   But even if he can agree with Tom Foley and George
Mitchell, how will George Bush enforce anything with the rest
of Congress? Whom can he count on? Senate Appropriations
Chairman Robert Byrd? Not likely, since Mr. Byrd is privately
boasting that as long as he's in the Senate George Bush will
never get a line-item veto or enhanced rescission.
   Short of these or other institutional reforms, the only
fiscal discipline in town was "no new taxes." While Congress
still spent into deficit, even it could only go so far. With
that discipline now lifted, Congress is back to its
bacchanal. Mr. Bush has played his best card, but Congress
has yet to put a single spending cut or budget reform on the
table. No wonder the Members are in a mood to party.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FundAmerica Inc.
   Selects a President
   Amid Investigation
   ----
   By Earl C. Gottschalk Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Troubled FundAmerica Inc., a discount
buying club under investigation by Florida authorities,
turned to financial writer Howard Ruff to bail it out of its
problems.
   Mr. Ruff, editor and publisher of "The Ruff Times," a
Springville, Utah-based financial newsletter, and operator of
several other businesses, was named president. The
59-year-old author will attempt to buy out founder Robert T.
Edwards and other shareholders within the next month, the
company said. Mr. Edwards resigned Monday as president and
chief executive officer of FundAmerica in the wake of the
Florida investigation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Florida authorities arrested Mr. Edwards July 19 on
charges of organized fraud and conducting an illegal lottery.
He is free on $1 million bail. The state also filed a
cease-and-desist order against FundAmerica charging that the
club is actually an elaborate pyramid scheme. If the order is
upheld, FundAmerica would be banned from doing business in
Florida.
   Mr. Ruff was one of several prominent investment advisers
to recommend FundAmerica to their clients. Mr. Ruff urged
readers of his newsletter and persons attending his recent
national convention in Los Angeles to join FundAmerica and to
sell memberships. He was one of several dozen "presidential
directors," people at or near the top of the chain of
salespeople in the organization. Economist Arthur Laffer was
a member of the organization's board but he resigned after
the announcement of Mr. Edward's arrest.
   FundAmerica, based in Irvine, Calif., sells $100 annual
memberships entitling members to rebates on vacations,
credit-card purchases, long-distance telephone calls and
purchases of consumer goods. If consumers spend enough,
rebates cover the yearly fee and accumulate in a savings
account for retirement.
   FundAmerica recruited sales representatives or "directors"
-- who paid $3,200 to sign on and who bought bundles of
memberships for resale. This is how the company really made
its money rather than through the members' purchases, Florida
authorities charge.
   FundAmerica operated in California, Florida, Texas,
Arizona, Utah, Washington and Colorado. A federal judge in
Irvine froze more than $20 million in company bank accounts
last Friday after several California investors sued Mr.
Edwards, alleging that he violated federal securities laws.
   Mr. Ruff gained fame in the late 1970s with a best-selling
book, "How To Prosper in the Coming Bad Times," in which he
suggested that readers store food and buy gold. When the bad
times never showed up, he switched into other advice,
recently recommending that middle-aged Americans start their
own businesses. FundAmerica was one of these.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese VCR Exports Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japanese manufacturers exported a total of 11.4
million videocassette recorders in the first half of 1990, up
5.3% from a year earlier, the Electronics Industry
Association of Japan said.
   Shipments of color televisions during the term, however,
fell 6.6% to 1.6 million units.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For June, about 2.2 million VCRs were exported, up 13%
from a year earlier.
   VCR exports to the U.S. posted sharp year-to-year declines
both in June and in the first half, an association official
said. Despite the decline, the U.S. remained by far the
biggest importer of Japanese VCRs.
   The U.S. imported 657,849 VCRs in June, down 28% from the
year before, while imports for the January-June period
declined 26% to 3.7 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Seidman Warns
   Of $2 Billion
   Bank Fund Loss
   ---
   Higher Estimate for Year
   Involves FDIC Coverage
   For Failed Institutions
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The chairman of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. said the agency's fund to cover bank failures
may suffer a bigger-than-expected loss for the year, possibly
as much as $2 billion.
   The FDIC chief, William Seidman, in testimony before the
Senate Banking Committee, also said that lowering the
$100,000 insurance ceiling on individual accounts wouldn't
save the government much money in bank and savings-and-loan
failures. Mr. Seidman, when asked about attempting to limit
depositors to one insured account -- another idea popular on
Capitol Hill -- said it deserves to be studied but would pose
"great administrative problems."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To lower possible costs to the government, the FDIC chief
recommended placing stricter limits on the lending areas in
which banks can use insured deposits. He also called for
international agreements to set procedures for handling
failures of big financial institutions. Bailouts of big banks
have accounted for most of the FDIC's costs in recent years,
but regulators have been reluctant to impose larger losses on
depositors in the big banks partly because authorities in
other countries usually cover all deposits in failures. Mr.
Seidman and other regulators have pointed out that U.S. banks
could lose customers if their depositors are treated more
harshly than depositors in banks overseas.
   Mr. Seidman told the committee that spreading real estate
problems and other loan woes could cause enough bank failures
to give the FDIC's bank insurance fund a major loss this
year. A month ago, a top aide to Mr. Seidman suggested that a
loss was likely this year and that a $2 billion loss was the
"worst-case scenario" if a big bank failure occurred.
Yesterday, Mr. Seidman's comments appeared to indicate that
the agency believes a big loss is likely.
   Asked by reporters about the likelihood of a $2 billion
loss, Mr. Seidman said that "it's not unreasonable to say
that's the preferred prediction." But he would neither
elaborate nor say whether the FDIC expects a large bank
failure. Though FDIC officials won't discuss individual
institutions, the focus of attention is clearly on ailing
Northeast banks, in particular Boston-based Bank of New
England, which has been forced to set aside hundreds of
millions of dollars for possible real estate losses and was
prodded into a management shake-up by regulators.
   Asked about the general economic situation in the region,
Mr. Seidman said, "I don't think conditions are improving in
New England. They may be hitting bottom."
   The FDIC's bank fund now stands at $13.2 billion, after
losses of $851 million in 1989 and $4.24 billion in 1988, the
first losses in the agency's history.
   The $13.2 billion translates to about 70 cents for every
$100 in insured deposits at banks, a figure policymakers
believe is dangerously low. The FDIC believes that $1.25 for
each $100 is a healthy level, and last year's
savings-and-loan bailout bill increased the premiums paid by
banks with the goal of rebuilding the fund.
   With political sensitivity high over Congress's role in
the S&amp;L debacle, several senators pressed Mr. Seidman
yesterday about whether the FDIC will be able to handle
future bank failures without calling on taxpayer funds. "As
far as we can tell now, the {insurance} fund is adequate to
handle any failures that we can identify at this time," Mr.
Seidman said.
   The FDIC chairman noted that real estate loan problems
continue to plague banks and show no signs of abating.
Moreover, he said, as banks have lost many of their best
corporate borrowers to the securities markets they have been
forced into making real estate lending a bigger portion of
their business. "Many banks' earnings are directly related to
real estate values," Mr. Seidman said. And, he said, "We have
the weakest real estate markets that we've seen in this
country for many years."
   On the issue of deposit insurance reform and restructuring
the financial industry, Mr. Seidman renewed his calls for
tearing down the barriers that prevent banks from fully
entering securities, insurance and other lines of business.
He echoed testimony last week by Treasury Secretary Nicholas
Brady, who said that making banks more profitable and
competitive is as important as changing the deposit insurance
system itself.
   But Mr. Seidman suggested that the government could limit
its exposure to the risky activities by limiting banks to
using insured deposits in "reasonable, conservative and safe"
investments such as home mortgages and loans to highly rated
corporations. Mr. Seidman didn't offer specific proposals for
change, because the Treasury Department is studying deposit
insurance and the financial industry and plans to make
recommendations by early next year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NIH Panel Clears First Human Tests of Gene Therapy
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CTUS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   BETHESDA, Md. -- A National Institutes of Health panel
opened a new frontier in medicine by approving the first
human tests of gene therapy to fight disease.
   One experiment cleared by the panel will enable NIH
doctors to implant genes designed to enhance the body's
ability to fight metastatic melanoma, a fatal skin cancer.
The second experiment will test the use of gene implants to
treat ADA deficiency, a rare and congenital immune-system
defect.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In recent years, scientists have traced a number of
inherited disorders, such as ADA deficiency, hemophilia and
cystic fibrosis, to specific malfunctions by genes, which
instruct cells to perform various tasks. At the same time,
researchers are concluding that diseases such as cancer,
diabetes, heart disease and some manic-depressive illnesses
partly result from genetic malfunctions. Thus, scientists
have begun to focus on therapies to replace missing genes or
to enhance the performance of existing genes as a possible
key to treating many diseases and disorders.
   Scientists believe that gene therapy will eventually
graduate from the laboratory to medical practice and emerge
as a common method of treating a wide range of diseases and
disorders. "In the next 20 years, we may be able to treat
some of the more common genetic diseases with gene therapy,"
predicted Robert Murray of the division of medical genetics
at Howard University in Washington. He said there would be
strong medical and commercial benefits in developing a gene
therapy for fairly widespread genetic defects, such as
sickle-cell anemia, which afflicts about 50,000 American
blacks. He also said the gene therapy eventually may treat
certain types of high blood pressure.
   Yesterday's approvals move gene therapy "from abstract
science to research and patient care," said Gerard McGarrity,
chairman of the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee, the NIH
panel that cleared the tests. "The field of medicine has been
looking for this kind of therapy for a thousand years," he
said, calling the panel's votes "an historic moment."
   "Unfortunately, we don't know exactly what the
ramifications are," warned Mr. McGarrity, who is the
president of the Coriell Institute for Medical Research in
Camden, N.J. "Nobody can say where this is going in the
future or how many applications we'll see."
   Scientists don't know for sure how -- or even whether --
human gene implants will work, much less the risks of trying
to fine-tune the body's genetic mechanism. Moreover, gene
therapy has attracted criticism from groups that worry it
could lead to pressure to tinker with genetic structures in
order to improve the human race.
   For these reasons, the NIH has put the proposals through a
rigorous review process. The Recombinant DNA Advisory
Committee, a group of scientists, ethicists and lawyers, is
the last major hurdle. The Food and Drug Administration and
the acting director of NIH must still sign off on the
proposed experiments, but their approval is considered a
certainty.
   In both experiments, scientists will remove immune-system
cells from patients and grow large amounts of these cells,
called lymphocytes, in the laboratory. Then they will splice
specific genes into the cells and infuse them into the
patient. The cancer therapy will add a gene for
tumor-necrosis factor (TNF), a protein that destroys tumor
cells. The ADA therapy will add a gene responsible for the
enzyme adenosine deaminase (ADA). Victims of the disorder
lack ADA, which is responsible for clearing wastes from the
body.
   The tests will start in the fall on small numbers of NIH
patients who consent to take part in the experiments, which
draw heavily on gene-implant research done by French Anderson
of NIH's Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. It may be some time
before scientists know how safe the therapies are and how
well they work.
   The advisory panel authorized Dr. Anderson and two NIH
colleagues, Michael Blaese and Kenneth Culver, to start the
ADA therapy on as many as 10 children. The review process,
which took almost a year, was complicated by the fact that
all the test subjects will be children. In addition, there
are already two therapies available for patients with ADA
deficiency: bone marrow transplants, which only work for a
minority of the fewer than 10 children born each year in the
U.S. with the disorder; and the drug PEG-ADA, a treatment
developed about five years ago that improves immune response
in most patients. The researchers will administer the ADA
gene therapy along with PEG-ADA.
   Even though ADA deficiency is rare, it received wide
publicity several years ago from television reports of a
Texas boy who had to live in a plastic bubble to protect him
from infection and who subsequently died. Most victims of ADA
deficiency die from respiratory diseases in their youth.
   The panel authorized Steven Rosenberg of the National
Cancer Institute to test the safety of TNF therapy on as many
as 50 volunteers. In an unusual move, the panel approved Dr.
Rosenberg's proposal the first time he presented it. Members
of the panel said the quick approval came because Dr.
Rosenberg is dealing with terminally ill patients for whom
there is no therapy. In addition, Dr. Rosenberg, who has won
committee approval for two other experimental cancer
therapies, did an effective job of using new data from tests
with monkeys to address safety concerns.
   Monday, Dr. Rosenberg told the panel's Human Gene Therapy
Subcommittee that TNF has "almost been miraculous in what it
can do" in reducing tumors in mice. "Within 15 to 30 minutes
we can see necrosis and the dissolution of tumors." However,
he said that "TNF administration to humans has been an
abysmal failure" when attempted in a solution injected
intravenously.
   Now Dr. Rosenberg will insert TNF into tumor-infiltrating
lymphocytes, especially grown and strengthened cells that are
designed to zero in on cancers in the body. He hopes that the
combination will produce a promising therapy.
   When administered in some earlier applications, TNF has
caused the body to begin wasting away. Dr. Rosenberg hopes
that the more targeted application will be less risky. The
point of his initial tests will be to test the human
tolerance and safety of TNF gene therapy when administered in
connection with interleukin-2, a protein made by Cetus Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mutual Funds:
   Samuelson
   Puts Father's
   Text to Work
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   COGRA
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Following in your father's footsteps is tough at the best
of times, but it has taken on a whole new meaning for fund
manager Paul R. Samuelson.
   Mr. Samuelson is the son of Paul A. Samuelson, the Nobel
Prize-winning economist and Massachusetts Institute of
Technology professor, whose economics textbook for years has
been a staple on many college reading lists. Although the
older Mr. Samuelson never managed money professionally, he
was an early advocate of the "efficient market" hypothesis,
and also developed techniques for valuing call options and
warrants.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now his 37 year-old son is putting those ideas into
practice. In April, Mr. Samuelson took over the helm at
Colonial Income Trust, a $150 million corporate bond fund.
For the past five years, Boston's Colonial Group Inc. has
been experimenting with so called quantitative investment
techniques.
   Quantitative investors are the nerds of Wall Street.
Unloved by traditional stock pickers, these computer-driven
investors shun conventional securities analysis and instead
take their cues from university research. While most
investors speak with awe about legendary stock pickers like
Warren Buffett or John Templeton, the quant heroes are
academics such as Harry Markowitz, Eugene Fama and Paul A.
Samuelson.
   So far, Colonial's experiment with quant techniques has
paid off nicely for the firm's stock-fund investors. Over the
past five years, Colonial's quants have taken the fund
group's lackluster stock funds and turned them into
better-than-average performers.
   The group's two oldest and largest stock funds, Colonial
Fund and Colonial Growth Shares, were once considered
mediocre performers. But since the start of 1986, Colonial
Fund has posted an annualized total return of 13.4% and
Colonial Growth Shares has returned 17.1%, vs. 13.2% for the
average stock fund tracked by Lipper Analytical Services.
   That turnaround has started to attract investors'
attention, and the assets of Colonial's broker-sold stock
funds have almost quadrupled over the past five years.
   Buoyed by their success with stocks, Colonial's quants now
are turning their attention to bonds. In the past, the
analysts and fund managers in Colonial's bond department have
produced decent results by using traditional analysis.
   "I'd say they're skeptical," says Jarrod Wilcox,
Colonial's chief investment officer. "If it's obvious that
good things are coming out of {the quantitative approach},
they'll be willing to go along with it."
   Mr. Samuelson has been given the task of leading the quant
charge into the bond fund area. Like most quantitative
investors, Mr. Samuelson believes the financial markets are
fairly efficient. The efficient market hypothesis holds that
the only successful "market timer" is a lucky one. For Mr.
Samuelson, that means forgoing any attempt at guessing the
direction of interest rates. He believes that predicting
rates is futile because -- with so many analysts making
forecasts -- it is all but impossible for an investor to
consistently outguess competitors.
   Mr. Samuelson sticks mainly with investment-grade
corporate bonds. Government bonds are so simple that Mr.
Samuelson's model -- well-suited to corporate bonds with
intricate call features and sinking funds -- becomes
redundant. And as for high-yielding junk bonds, he says,
there isn't any substitute for the spadework done by
traditional bond analysts.
   "There are two obvious ways that a quantitative approach
can pay off," says Mr. Samuelson. "One way is to value
securities that have complex features. The other way is to
judge the default rate better than others."
   In judging default rates, Mr. Samuelson draws on one of
the quant school's favorite ideas, the Black-Scholes formula.
Developed in the early 1970s by two academics, the formula
was originally used to value options. The formula
incorporates the notion that a call option on a stock is more
valuable if the underlying stock is more volatile. That's
because a call option -- which gives its holder the right but
not the obligation to buy a security at a specified price --
holds greater potential for a large gain if the underlying
stock tends to fluctuate wildly.
   Mr. Samuelson now is taking the ideas that underpin
Black-Scholes and applying them to corporate bonds. He uses
the volatility of a company's stock to judge the volatility
of an entire company's value, as measured by the combined
worth of its shares outstanding and its debt. Although a
volatile company value can be a good sign for shareholders,
because it suggests there is a chance for a fat gain, it also
implies that there is a substantial risk of default for
holders of the bonds.
   Mr. Samuelson recently bought some Penn Central Corp.
bonds that trade at 100.19, have a coupon of 10 5/8% and
mature in 2000. The bonds cannot be called in early by Penn
Central so, says Mr. Samuelson, "here the only thing I can
say of any use is what its discount should be based on the
default risk. I would estimate that the discount due to the
default risk should be 7%. The actual discount {relative to a
comparable government bond} is 13%."
   Though Mr. Samuelson concedes that his model doesn't help
much when there's a high risk of default, he reckons his
analysis can unearth bonds that are cheap relative to a
firm's long-term default risk -- providing that the stock
market is accurately assessing the risk of owning a company's
stock. To make sure he's not being misled by a mispriced
stock, Mr. Samuelson's compares his estimate for a company's
volatility with volatility estimates for companies in the
same industry. Says he, "There's a definite art to valuing
corporate bonds."
   To assess the likely return on a corporate bond, investors
generally look at a bond's yield to first call as well as its
yield to maturity. That is because many bonds have special
features that allow companies to buy back, or call, their
bonds before the maturity date. Mr. Samuelson tries to cope
with this problem by looking at a bond's option-adjusted
yield. This calculation takes into account all of the bond's
provisions, including the likelihood that a bond will be paid
off early.
   Colonial Income Trust, for instance, owns some USAir Group
bonds, which have a coupon of 12 7/8% and mature in 2000.
With the bonds selling at 109.53, the yield to maturity is
11.2%. But that figure is misleading, because the bond can
first be called in 1995 at 100, giving the bonds a yield to
first call of 10.1%. Figuring in the high likelihood that the
bonds will be called in 1995, Mr. Samuelson comes up with an
option-adjusted yield of 9.9%. That is what Mr. Samuelson
reckons the bonds would yield if they were definitely going
to mature in 1995. He can then use that yield to compare
USAir with other, comparable quality corporate bonds maturing
in 1995.
   Now, Mr. Samuelson is developing a computer program to
incorporate another of the quant school's key ideas,
so-called portfolio optimization. Optimization draws on the
notion that, while all bonds will react to a change in
interest rates, the default risk of different bonds will vary
as economic conditions change. There is a poor correlation,
for instance, between the default risk of utility bonds and
those of a capital goods producer. By combining such bonds in
his portfolio, Mr. Samuelson hopes to lower the overall
volatility of his fund.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Top Aluminium Firm Tries to Tap Entrepreneurial Spirit
   ---
   Alcoa Sets Up an Independent Unit
   To Create Market for New Metal
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   AA
</CO>
<IN>
ALUMINUM (ALU)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW KENSINGTON, Pa. -- In this battered old factory town
lives a rare breed of moguls. They work out of a trailer.
They have power lunches at Eat n' Park. Their machines
predate World War II. They type their own letters, and they
clean up after themselves.
   Their company? Alcoa -- the world's largest aluminum
producer. Aluminum Co. of America hopes that by freeing these
workers from the shackles of bureaucracy (and the lap of
luxury), and by letting them work in their own small unit, it
will tap the entrepreneurial spirit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The unit's task: to create a market for Arall, a recently
developed sheet metal. Arall combines aluminum and fiber to
create a material that is 30% stronger than aluminum and 35%
lighter. Trouble is, it's also three to four times more
expensive. The material holds great promise for the aerospace
industry, Alcoa believes, but profits may not come for 10
years, if at all.
   Alcoa's experiment is bucking the odds. Large
corporations' attempts to foster "intrapreneurship" --
capturing the zeal of small business owners within large
organizations -- have often failed miserably.
   Alcoa's only other effort, in the lighting business,
nearly drowned in red ink. It started to show profits only
after Alcoa bailed it out with more money and tightened
controls. Studies suggest that such ventures fail most often
because they lack autonomy and separate facilities or get
otherwise tangled in the bureaucracy of their corporate
parents.
   The trick is getting managers to "operate more on gut
feelings and natural abilities than thinking about what
someone's going to say," says Cindy Iannarelli, training
coordinator at the University of Pittsburgh's Small Business
Development Center.
   Alcoa thinks its Arall Laminates unit fits the bill. Arall
employees have their own facility and set their own hours,
typically working on weekends and until 8 p.m. in the
evening. And Alcoa is content to leave them alone -- as long
as they keep the red ink at a trickle.
   The aluminum maker owns the exclusive international
license to produce the material, protecting the intrapreneurs
from most competition. And the technology is brand new,
giving the Arall makers a more authentic start-up feeling.
   Sandy Nelson, vice president of Alcoa and general manager
of its steel and plate division, thinks the intrapreneurial
format is right for the product. He says Alcoa's larger
divisions would have been too preoccupied to nurse the infant
Arall. "The interference of other products would diminish the
emphasis on Arall," he says. But that's not a problem for
Arall's current makers. "They're a highly energetic team with
a very narrow focus," he says. "That's a powerful
combination."
   Mr. Nelson also thinks Arall's fatigue resistance -- a hot
item in the aerospace industry -- will help the unit succeed
where others have failed. "There's a great market
opportunity," he says.
   Dutch Prof. Bood Vogelesang invented the material in the
late 1970s for Akzo, the Dutch chemical concern. Akzo sold
Alcoa production rights to the material in 1985. (Akzo has
since had second thoughts, and is now discussing a joint
venture with Alcoa.)
   Alcoa let the material sit in its New Kensington research
lab for three years. It wasn't eager to plunge into
production of a material that didn't yet have a market.
   The company would have had to spend about $100 million to
bring the new product to market, with no guarantee that it
would succeed. "You have a long, long incubation time," says
Alcoa's Mr. Nelson. It looked as if Arall might die on the
drawing board.
   Meanwhile, William Evancho, former head of Alcoa's
steamship division, was bored with his job in the New
Kensington lab. He persuaded Mr. Nelson that he could turn
Arall into a business without spending too much money. Alcoa
gave him a little cash and a lot of latitude.
   In January 1988, he took a 29-year-old engineer, Michael
Gregory, as his marketing director and went to find a market
for Arall. Mr. Evancho thinks he can turn Arall into a $100
million-a-year business. But even if he fails, Alcoa won't
have wasted much more than the $20 million it has invested so
far.
   The 43-year-old Mr. Evancho isn't a traditional
entrepreneur: His money isn't on the line. But his career
could be. If the project takes off, he will climb several
notches on Alcoa's corporate ladder. If it fails? "I don't
have a job," says Mr. Evancho. "And I have eight kids." Mr.
Evancho says he'd like his pay to eventually be based on
Arall's performance -- though he'd rather wait until the
product starts showing a profit.
   Messrs. Evancho and Gregory say they run the business as
if it were their own. At their trailer offices, neckties are
optional. When employees take a cup of coffee, they are asked
to contribute coins to a coffee fund. They put in long hours
at the factory, which looks like a sparse, open hangar. The
machinery itself looks as if it came from a rummage sale:
State-of-the-art control panels operate 1940 heavy machinery.
   The two savor their freedom from the Alcoa bureaucracy.
"We're the Oakland Raiders of Alcoa," says Mr. Gregory. Adds
Mr. Evancho: "Sometimes we're the Bad News Bears." They wear
nicknames on their hardhats. The workers call Mr. Gregory
"Papa Dog," so named after he told recruits they would be
referred to as "Arall dogs."
   Without club memberships, they spend their weekends in
search of buyers and their early morning hours on the phone
with European aerospace companies. They visit auctions to
pick up equipment.
   "It's kind of like we're newlyweds," says Mr. Evancho.
"You get what you can afford."
   They're enjoying a protracted honeymoon. "The guys in the
Arall program are more aggressive than the run-of-the-mill
metallurgists at Alcoa," says Richard Pettit, a purchasing
agent at McDonnell Douglas, which agreed to use Arall in the
cargo door of its C-17. "They got their material {used} on an
airplane much faster than usual."
   Arall says it expects to take in $1 million in revenue
this year, half of which comes from the C-17 contract and the
rest from retrofitting old planes. Arall executives expect
their cash flow to even out this year, and they predict
profits by 1993. But the business relies on the slow-changing
and unpredictable aerospace industry, and Arall had to scale
back earlier profit projections after Fokker, a Dutch
aerospace concern, shelved its F-100, which would have used
Arall.
   Still, rivals seem worried. "When it was part of big
Alcoa, I didn't consider it competition," says Marc
Verbrugen, marketing director for Akzo's rival product,
Glare. Now, he says, he does.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   EPA Threatens
   To Limit Driving
   In California
   ----
   By Jim Herron Zamora
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- The Environmental Protection Agency said it
may be forced to limit the days Southern California commuters
can drive their cars, if existing state and local plans fail
to cut smog by 86% by the end of the century.
   The federal agency's plan, which includes many
anti-pollution measures approved more than a year ago by the
regional South Coast Air Quality Management District and the
California Air Resources Board, seeks to cut carbon monoxide
emissions in this part of the state by 86% by the year 2004,
with the same reduction in ozone emissions by 2010.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Daniel W. McGovern, EPA's western regional administrative
director, said the agency "reluctantly" included guidelines
for so-called no-drive days as a "backstop measure" for
reducing carbon monoxide emissions if the state and local
plans are unsuccessful by their own deadline, the year 2000.
The no-drive plan would use odd or even numbers on auto
license tags to alternate driving days.
   "It is in the spirit of presenting all possibilities that
we are presenting the no-drive day," Mr. McGovern said. "It
is not one we are endorsing."
   The EPA was forced to issue the plan as a result of a 1988
lawsuit by the California Coalition for Clean Air and the
Sierra Club. An EPA official termed timing of the new plan
"awkward" because state and local authorities were developing
more stringent pollution plans for the Los Angeles area that
may render the federal plan unnecessary.
   Mr. McGovern said that since Congress and the president
were revamping the federal Clean Air Act, the new plan soon
may become obsolete and require another revision.
   Environmentalists who brought the lawsuit called the EPA
plan insurance that will help make the state and regional
governments stick to their guns, although they noted that the
federal plan takes longer to achieve the goals set by the
state.
   "We're disappointed that they did not adopt the state's
timetable," said Jan Chatten-Brown, president of the
California Coalition for Clean Air.
   Most measures in the EPA plan don't take effect until
after 1996, and then only if state and regional efforts have
failed to reduce pollution sufficiently.
   The federal proposals that could become effective before
1996 include winter and summer reductions in gasoline
volatility, increases in the oxygen content in winter
gasoline and enforcement of federal guidelines to reformulate
gasoline to further reduce emissions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Official Regrets 1988 Sale of Thrift
   To Arizona Executive Indicted for Fraud
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A former government official said he
regretted the sale of an ailing thrift, in a lucrative
government-assisted deal, to an Arizona insurance executive
who had been indicted for fraud 12 years earlier.
   George Barclay, president of the Federal Home Loan Bank of
Dallas, said that the government staff should have looked
more deeply into the background of James Fail, the insurance
executive. Mr. Barclay said that he was aware of the fraud
indictment at the time of the sale but that by itself it
wasn't enough to disqualify Mr. Fail from bidding. However,
in testimony before a Senate Judiciary subcommitee
investigating government-assisted thrift sales in 1988, Mr.
Barclay admitted that his staff failed to inform senior
officials that an insurance company owned by Mr. Fail was
convicted of fraud as well.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If we had the time to work in a more orderly basis,
people like James Fail would not have slipped through the
net," said Mr. Barclay. "Had I known the facts, I would have
objected," he added.
   But Mr. Barclay and other regulators denied that Mr. Fail
was given preferential treatment in the transaction because
of White House ties to Mr. Fail's attorney, Robert Thompson,
a lobbyist. Danny Wall, the former top S&amp;L regulator,
testified yesterday that any hint of political pressure "is
totally absurd."
   The sale of 15 Texas thrifts, which were merged into
Bluebonnet Savings Bank, is the subject of a lengthy inquiry
by Sen. Howard Metzenbaum (D., Ohio) and a panel of the
Senate Judiciary Committee. The Bluebonnet sale occurred in
an end-of-year rush in 1988, in which dozens of insolvent
thrifts were sold to buyers who reaped billions of dollars in
tax benefits and government assistance in compensation for
the poor thrift investments.
   The Bluebonnet case has attracted particular scrutiny
because Mr. Fail contributed just $1,000 of his own capital
to acquire the S&amp;Ls, while the U.S. pledged $1.8 billion in
assistance.
   Mr. Thompson, under subpoena by the subcommittee, refused
to appear, contending that the committee lacks the authority
to investigate the transaction and that the committee staff
disclosed private financial information to a reporter. Mr.
Thompson's attorney said he would fight the subpoena in
court.
   Sen. Metzenbaum has charged that Mr. Fail was able to win
regulatory approval even though a competing bid would have
cost the government $91 million less. "This all would appear
as though Mr. Thompson had the inside track," said Sen.
Metzenbaum.
   But the former regulators said that the competing bid
flopped on its merits. "It was a novel, cockamamie idea,"
said Stuart Root, former executive director of the thrift
agency. He argued that the competing bid would have
selectively pooled assets and tax breaks of several thrifts
under the supervision of a limited partnership, which isn't
permitted under thrift regulations. "The proposal was not
feasible," said Mr. Root.
   The regulators also defended the 1988 sales, overall,
saying they had little choice but to offer lucrative
long-term assistance in order to attract buyers because the
savings-and-loan insurance fund was low on cash in the short
term. "They weren't brilliant, or strokes of genius, but they
were responsive to the marketplace," said Mr. Wall. "We had
no alternative."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Urges Approval
   Of Phone Companies'
   Service to New Zealand
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST AIT BEL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department recommended allowing
Ameritech and Bell Atlantic Corp. to provide long-distance
service between the U.S. and New Zealand and to own
satellites and undersea cables for that service.
   The New Zealand government, as part of its effort to
privatize state-owned companies, selected Ameritech and Bell
Atlantic in June to buy the country's phone company, Telecom
Corp. of New Zealand, for about $2.46 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Justice Department made its recommendation to Judge
Harold H. Greene, who oversees the consent decree that broke
up the Bell System in 1984. Among other things, the consent
decree bars the seven regional Baby Bells from providing
long-distance service.
   The department concluded that "there is no substantial
possibility" that the two companies will impede competition
in providing telecommunications between the U.S. and New
Zealand. The department asked Judge Greene to decide the
matter promptly because the transaction goes to closing on
Sept. 12.
   A spokesman for Ameritech said the New Zealand partnership
was pleased and encouraged that the department "has
recommended the court act expeditiously to grant the waiver."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP A.ATE CQB LATAM LABOR Q.CHW Z.CRO FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
BANKS (BNK)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRITAIN'S WILTING EXPORTS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Confederation of British Industry's latest economic
survey showed that export orders during the four months ended
June 30 were flat, despite company expectations in the spring
that they would rise.
   With the government's policy of high interest rates
cooling off demand within the United Kingdom, companies have
looked to exports to offset the domestic slowdown. Now
companies surveyed by the CBI said they were less optimistic
about exports than they had been in April. With total orders
dropping, the CBI said, "manufacturing output is set to fall
back, giving a clear warning of the possibility of a
recession in the second half of this year."
   Clouding British exports are price increases brought about
by a combination of rising inflation and higher exchange
rates for the pound.
   David Kern, chief economist of National Westminster Bank
PLC, said companies face "weakening domestic demand and
worsening export competitiveness" but also believes the CBI
is probably advancing an overly gloomy line. He said the
confederation, whose members have long been pressing the
government to lower base interest rates, "has always been
arguing -- with remarkable predictability -- that monetary
policy is too tight."
                                                                                                       

   RECYCLING IN AUSTRALIA
                                                                                                       

   Australian Telecommunications Corp., the government
telephone monopoly commonly known as Telecom Australia, is
starting a recycling program for old telephone books. Mel
Ward, managing director of Telecom Australia, said a 12-month
pilot program in Melbourne would find the most efficient
method of gathering outdated directories from customers.
Recycled telephone-book paper will be used by other companies
to make such things as building insulation and seedling pots.
                                                                                                       

   BERLIN'S TRAFFIC JAM
                                                                                                       

   A million extra cars have crowded Berlin's streets since
the Wall was opened last fall, creating traffic chaos and
heavy smog. "We are on the verge of collapse," a West Berlin
traffic official, Klaus Krueger, told the Berliner Zeitung.
He estimated that 1.2 million extra cars will have registered
in the city by the end of the year, many belonging to East
Germans able to buy cars freely for the first time. Berlin
police will start towing away cars for the first time, Mr.
Krueger added.
                                                                                                       

   HONDURAS'S BANANA STRIKE
                                                                                                       

   Chiquita Brands International said it had accepted a
proposal by Honduran President Rafael Leonardo Callejas for a
25.4% wage increase to end a month-old strike by 10,000
banana workers. There was no immediate reaction from the
union to the U.S. company's announcement that it would raise
the basic wage by $62.50, to $308.50 a month. The union
ordered the walkout to back demands for a 54.57% wage
increase. Chiquita at first refused to negotiate and later
limited the acceptable increase to 14.33%.
                                                                                                       

   TAIWAN BANK IN TOKYO
                                                                                                       

   Taiwan's Chang Hwa Commercial Bank Ltd. said it would open
an office in Tokyo. It would be the first Taiwan bank to set
up shop in Japan since the Nationalists fled the mainland for
Taiwan more than 40 years ago. Banking analysts in Tokyo
noted that Chang Hwa's announcement came in the wake of
Japan's decision to lift its freeze on official lending to
China. With Tokyo's loan package for China now reactivated,
"it would be difficult for the Chinese to come down hard" on
Japan for allowing a Taiwan bank office in Tokyo, said one
analyst.
                                                                                                       

   NEW EUROPEAN AIRLINE
                                                                                                       

   Switzerland's regional carrier Crossair has teamed up with
a Czechoslovak air-ambulance and agricultural-spraying
operator, Slovair, to create a commuter airline called Tatra
Air. Crossair said the new carrier would begin flying next
spring, initially from Bratislava to Munich and Zurich with a
37-seat Saab 340 turboprop leased from Crossair. Crossair
said Tatra would have a capital base of 21 million
Czechoslovak crowns ($1.3 million), a third of which will
come from Crossair and the rest from Slovair.
                                                                                                       

   COMPETITION WITHIN THE EC
                                                                                                       

   The level of national aid to European Community industry
remains unacceptably high, posing a serious threat to fair
competition within the single market, the EC Commission said.
   From 1986 to 1988, state aid in the community totaled 82.3
billion European currency units ($106 billion) a year,
according to an EC survey.
   "Although there has been some significant progress, the
continued high level of aid poses serious threats to a system
of undistorted competition and the completion of the internal
market," Competition Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan said.
   EC officials said the commission would start taking a
tougher line with member states, which under EC law must have
all aid plans approved by the commission.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   China's domestic postal rates were increased for the first
time in 40 years. Official media said domestic postal rates
had been raised 150%, to .10 yuan (two U.S. cents) from .04
yuan for a local delivery and to .20 yuan from .08 yuan for
intercity letters. . . . Cuba's Internal Trade Ministry
ordered the rationing of razor blades, with an initial
monthly allotment of two blades per adult male.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   National Securities &amp; Research Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS U.AIT
</CO>
<LP>
   NATIONAL SECURITIES &amp; RESEARCH Corp. (Greenwich, Conn.) --
Robert J. Adler was named president of NSR Distributors Inc.,
the mutual fund broker/dealer subsidiary of this fund
management company. Mr. Adler, 34 years old, was senior vice
president and director of mutual fund product development at
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Autos:
   Chrysler Makes Evolutionary Changes
   To Minivans in Bid to Retain Dominance
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   C NSANY F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- The stakes couldn't be higher for
Chrysler Corp.
   With its car sales slumping, the continued success of
Chrysler's minivans is the keystone to its future. Yet
stronger competitors, General Motors Corp. and Toyota Motor
Corp., have unleashed sleeker, more modern minivans in the
past year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now Chrysler is answering by revamping its minivans for
the first time since it popularized the "people mover" market
seven years ago. The changes are significant, but subtle.
   Chrysler is betting that a slightly sleeker body combined
with lots of interior refinements -- more convenient
switches, "sweat-proof" seats, added cup holders and even
juice-box holders for kids -- will be just what buyers want
and will continue its dominance of the minivan market. If,
that is, consumers can swallow one change that they are
certain to dislike: a markedly higher price.
   "When you're dealing with the crown jewels of the
corporation, you don't get too exotic," says Trevor Creed, a
Chrysler designer involved in remodeling the new minivans,
which make their debut next month. Chrysler spent $600
million to redesign its models and retool the plants that
build them. "It was time for a change," Mr. Creed says, "but
not time to completely throw out something that has been
working so well."
   Working well is an understatement. Chrysler's minivans
were the single most successful vehicles of the 1980s. Though
formidable competitors launched their own versions, Chrysler
still accounts for nearly half of U.S. minivan sales. This
dominance has literally kept Chrysler in business.
   Profits from minivans equaled 65% of the company's overall
net income last year after a huge write-off for plant
closings caused by weakening car sales. Industry analysts
estimate Chrysler gets $4,000 in gross profit on each 1990
minivan sold.
   So, Chrysler figures, why mess with success? The 1991
Dodge Caravan, Plymouth Voyager and Chrysler Town &amp; Country
will be built on the same chassis as previous versions,
meaning they will be no longer or wider than their
predecessors. Interior space will remain the same. And they
will use the same transmissions and engines to achieve the
same horsepower.
   The most significant updates came in the suspension and
interiors of the vans. The suspension is supposed to provide
a ride that is steadier and firmer. Inside, Chrysler put new
"foam-cast" seats that allow the body heat of passengers to
escape, and a new dashboard layout with radio, heater and
air-conditioning switches within closer reach of the driver.
   The exterior, which Chrysler says is 80% new, is more
rounded with a much smaller front grille and a revamped
tailgate. But it still bears such a strong resemblance to the
old shape that it has the same "drag coefficient," a measure
of wind resistance. Chrysler, in short, rejected the
high-styling approach taken by GM and Toyota, because it
believes most minivan buyers are a practical sort.
   Chrysler's changes are so evolutionary, in fact, that the
new minivans won't draw many stares. George C. Peterson,
president of AutoPacific Group Inc., a market research group,
notes that on a recent road test of the minivans, most people
who passed him didn't give the new models a second glance.
Only drivers of older minivans, he says, turned their heads.
   Still, Mr. Peterson says he agrees with Chrysler's
reasoning: "By fixing the ride and the interior, they spent
their money wisely, because these are products sold for their
utility value instead of style."
   Chrysler officials say they designed the 1991 minivans to
address suggestions from current minivan owners instead of
reaching to attract a new group of buyers. The new dashboard
layout was the most asked-for alteration, followed by the
addition of bucket seats and shoulder belts in the second
row. Chrysler designers also added their own innovation:
juice-box holders in the back of the stretched minivans so
kids won't spill the popular containers.
   "We have two million minivan customers out there and we
can't afford to be arrogant" with them, explains Francois
Castaing, Chrysler's vice president of vehicle engineering.
"We have to respond to what they want first."
   One thing minivan buyers aren't likely to want is higher
prices. Chrysler minivans have sold well because prices
remained below most competing models. Chrysler managed to do
that by having far more capacity to build minivans -- up to
500,000 annually -- than other manufacturers.
   But now Chrysler is making some previously optional
equipment -- such as power mirrors and rear-seat shoulder
belts -- standard. Manual transmissions no longer will be
available. Instead, a three-speed automatic becomes standard,
with a four-speed automatic (which boosts pickup and gas
mileage alike) available for extra charge. Chrysler officials
say the new equipment adds more than $1,000 in retail cost to
the vehicles, but consumers may balk.
   Preliminary 1991 prices provided to fleet buyers show
Chrysler is boosting the price of its minivans as much as 12%
from prices set at the start of the 1990 model year. Chrysler
officials maintain the 1991-model prices are only 2% higher,
as adjusted for comparable equipment. Still, as things stand
with the preliminary prices, a base-model 1991 Dodge Grand
Caravan LE will cost $19,300, compared with $18,698 for a
comparable base-priced Toyota Previa LE. That is up from
$18,325 for the base-model 1990 Grand Caravan LE.
   "They're being rather aggressive" with the pricing, says
Harvey Heinbach, auto analyst with Merrill Lynch Research in
New York. "I suspect they have the attitude of erring on the
high side so they can add incentives {e.g. rebates} if
necessary. Even with a terrific product these days, it's hard
to sell without incentives."
   In the past two years, Chrysler's grip on the minivan
market has loosened only slightly with the introduction of
the plastic-skinned APV minivans by GM last summer and
Toyota's egg-shaped Previa last spring. The APVs, expected by
GM officials to mount a serious challenge to Chrysler's
minivans, afford an awkward forward view because of their
steeply sloping noses. Sales have been so disappointing that
GM temporarily idled some assembly workers to cut production.
   The Previa received rave reviews, but is arriving in the
U.S. in limited quantities. What's more, its "mid-engine"
design, in which the engine sits under the front seat, gives
some buyers pause. Chrysler Chairman Lee Iacocca has tried to
belittle the design by quipping: "At Chrysler, we believe
your engine ought to arrive at the scene of an accident
before you do."
   Other minivans also have limitations that have kept them
from clobbering Chrysler. Mazda Motor Corp.'s MPV has a
superior finish, engine and transmission, say car magazines,
but is smaller than Chrysler's minivans. Ford Motor Co.'s
Aerostar has been the second-best selling minivan to
Chrysler's, but has more of a truck-like feel and features
rear-wheel drive to Chrysler's front-wheel drive. (Both the
Ford and Chrysler vans, as well as those made by Toyota and
Mazda, also come in all-wheel-drive versions. So do GM's
older models, the Chevrolet Astro and GMC Safari.)
   But Chrysler officials say they expect Ford to bring out
by 1994 two new minivans -- a replacement for the Aerostar
and a van built in a joint venture with Nissan Motor Co. --
that will come much closer to their own. In the meantime,
they are hoping the refinements in the 1991 models will
satisfy customers until they come out with an all-new minivan
in 1995.
   "We've been fortunate nobody has decided to just copy our
formula," says John E. Herlitz, director of exterior design
for Chrysler. "Everybody's been happy so far to nibble around
the edges to find their own niche instead of hitting us head
on."
   ---
          Altering Design in a Drive to Stay on Top
                                                                                                       

                     U.S. Minivan Market
                                                                                                       

   Share during period from 1983 to June 1990
                                                                                                       


   General Motors ................................. 24.0
   Ford ........................................... 19.1
   Toyota .........................................  4.6
   Mazda ..........................................  1.5
   Volkswagen .....................................  1.3
   Nissan .........................................  1.1
   Mitsubishi .....................................  0.5
                                                                                                       

   Source: Chrysler Corp.
   ---
                    What Chrysler Changed
                                                                                                       

   Based on requests from minivan owners
                                                                                                       

   -- Redesigned dashboard to improve visibility, access to
controls
   -- Added bucket seats to second row
   -- Installed rear-seat shoulder belts
   -- Added anti-lock brakes, at least as an option
   -- Added a high-mounted safety brake light
                                                                                                       

   Source: Chrysler Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Capital Associates Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CAII WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CAPITAL ASSOCIATES Inc. (Lakewood, Colo.) -- Richard
Kazan, chairman and chief executive officer of this financial
services company, has added the position of president,
succeeding Jack Durliat, who resigned to pursue other
interests. The company said Mr. Durliat will continue to
serve on the board until the annual meeting in November, but
won't stand for re-election.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW IBM SELE
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Electronic Dialers Give
   Busy Fingers a Rest
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   TIRED fingers? Several companies offer gadgets that dial
the telephone for you.
   The gizmos are the latest twist on computerized "personal
organizers." In addition to storing names, addresses and
phone numbers, the machines can generate the Touch-Tone
noises understood by most phones. By holding such a device up
to a phone's mouthpiece and pressing a single button, users
dial the number they see on its liquid-crystal display.
   Until lately, electronic dialers were simple devices that
enabled users of rotary phones to generate Touch-Tone
commands to their answering machines, for example. Adding
this dialing capability to the new electronic organizers
"seemed like a natural extension to both products," says
Melissa Stoll of Texas Instruments, which makes two dialers.
   TI says its Pro Dialer should appeal to business travelers
because it dials chains of numbers -- a boon to anyone who
must make long-distance calls by dialing an access number . .
. then the desired phone number . . . then a credit-card
number. It also sports a clock that beeps to remind its owner
of appointments.
   Sharp Electronics' Dial Master 450 offers a secret code to
protect sensitive phone numbers and a "remark" key that
allows users to add brief comments to each phone listing.
Casio's Quick Dialer 700 keeps track of the time in 26
cities, while the Auradex EZ200, from Aurora Impex, prints
mailing labels. The machines list from $50 to $300, depending
on function.
   As yet, no truly high-powered electronic organizer -- one
that swaps data with personal computers -- can also dial. But
Sharp's Andrew Simon says the firm's Wizard product may add
the capability in a future version.
                                                                                                       

   X-Ray `Fax' Machines
   Aid Small-Town Hospitals

   FOR CASH-STRAPPED hospitals, a radiologist is no longer
out of reach.
   Many small-town hospitals have their own X-ray machines,
but must either share or do without a radiologist, the
specialist who interprets X-rays. While they save the
doctor's $200,000 salary, they often may wait a day or more
while X-ray film is shuttled to another location for
diagnosis.
   Now Discovery System, Overland Park, Kan., has come up
with a way to transmit complex X-ray images over regular
phone lines without losing the detail necessary to diagnose
pneumonia, fractures and other common ailments. Its FilmFAX
system isn't a facsimile machine, but a $70,000 combination
of scanners, data compressors, modems and laser output
devices. It can etch images on film or display them on a
video screen. X-ray technicians can use it to send an image
to another hospital in 70 seconds, allowing a radiologist to
phone in a diagnosis in minutes.
   At York Hospital in York, Pa., radiologist D. Randy Tabb
uses FilmFAX to diagnose patients whose conditions might
require immediate treatment in the hospital's small outpost
in Shrewsbury, 15 miles away. In four months of use, only two
diagnoses have been revised when compared with actual film, a
far better performance than is possible with systems that use
video cameras to transmit X-ray images, he says.
   Video-based systems, such as those made by Image Data,
Irvine, Calif., and Advanced Video Products, Concord, Mass.,
focus mainly on CT-scan and MR-scan images, which contain
much less detail than X-rays.
                                                                                                       

   Whetting User Appetites
   With Trial Programs
                                                                                                       

   SOFTWARE companies are offering customers new ways to
test-drive -- and fall in love with -- their products.
   Faced with increasingly leery buyers, more firms
distribute "demo disks," computer programs that give a feel
for a new product but don't let users perform key functions.
Others offer flashy videos showing their product in action,
while still others mail fully functional software "for trial
only."
   The latest marketing twist comes from a hardware firm, of
all places. Sun Microsystems is distributing an optical disk
that demonstrates the range of business software -- none from
Sun -- that can run on its workstations. The company wants to
convince people that its machines are as versatile and useful
as PCs.
   Sun says future versions will include real programs that
can be tried out, then fully activated by calling the
software company and getting a password -- after paying for
the product. Ultimately, Sun hopes to ship a few disks with
every workstation, allowing users to buy as much software as
they want without leaving their desks.
   "This is a definite trend in software distribution," says
Gail Bower of KnowledgeSet, which has a demo program on Sun's
current disk. "You wouldn't buy a car without sitting in it
and seeing how it drives. Now there may even be a way to
drive that car right off the lot."
   The development could spell good news for Drew Logan, a
Pennsylvanian who has applied for a patent on a new way to
protect software from copying. His method also requires users
to call the software company for a secret code, a step that
users had never been asked to take before. Still, says Ron
Palenski of Adapso, an industry group: "It's my sense that
copy protection is and will remain a dead issue for
mass-distributed business software."
                                                                                                       

   Odds &amp; Ends
                                                                                                       

   SELECTRONICS announced a hand-held electronic version of
Physicians' Desk Reference, a standard source of information
on drugs. . . . International Business Machines devised a
process that allows circuit wires to "heal" certain defects
by themselves. Technicians don't even need to know where the
glitches are.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Focus:
   Rochester Tel Reaches Out to Rural U.S.
   ---
   New York Firm Gobbles
   Up Small Phone Concerns
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   RTC NYN
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rochester Telephone Corp. is fast becoming the Pac-Man of
the telephone industry.
   When Alan Hasselwander answered the call to be Rochester
Tel's chairman in 1987, he didn't hear enough phones ringing
in northern New York, a slow-growth region. So while most of
the industry held the line, Mr. Hasselwander and his gang of
Rochester natives gobbled up more than a score of
subsidiaries, from Alabama to North Dakota.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 56-year-old Mr. Hasselwander, who started with
Rochester Tel as a plant manager 33 years ago, was anxious to
break out of his home town. "We looked around at the
Rochester area, and we saw a flat existence," he said. "We
looked for opportunities."
   They uncovered opportunities where others never looked,
spending some $335.5 million since March 1987 for rural phone
companies in the Midwest and Southeast. These include Urban
Telephone Co. in Clintonville, Wis., a third-generation
family-owned company serving the Menominee Indian
Reservation, and tiny S&amp;A Telephone Co., with 800 lines 30
miles southwest of Topeka, Kan. The subsidiaries are small
(between 1,000 and 22,000 lines) and virtually immune to
regulation, with lots of room for growth.
   Tired of dwelling in the industry's shadows, the Rochester
Tel management, a hungry, close-knit group of company
veterans, was intent on proving it could play in the major
leagues. At times they struck out.
   The company leaped headlong into fiber optics, building a
cable between Rochester and Chicago, only to find it couldn't
get enough people to use it. Rochester Tel also had to
retreat from a telephone supplies business.
   The company has had better luck with its buying binge,
which has built its phone business revenue to a projected
$414 million this year from $322 million in 1986. Net income
also climbed to $72.1 million in 1989 from $39.9 million in
1984. Subsidiaries will control 34% of its 688,000 phone
lines this year. In 1985, the company had 467,000 lines.
   While it has acquired most companies with stock swaps,
some recent sellers have demanded cash. This pushed Rochester
Tel's debt ratio over 50%, prompting a lower bond rating.
Executives say they don't plan any more debt deals. Besides,
they contend, the phone business promises steady earnings.
   "They're in the most stable, leverageable business in the
universe," said Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.'s Edward M. Greenberg.
Added PaineWebber Inc.'s Jack Grubman, "They understand the
world is changing, so they're pro-active, not reactive. It's
a shame they're not bigger, with more resources. This whole
industry would be a lot more interesting."
   In an eat-or-be-eaten industry, Rochester Tel hopes to
devour more small rural phone companies before competitors
get the same idea. It plans to pick up some 40,000 or 50,000
lines a year. At that rate it will soon overtake Cincinnati
Bell Inc., which had 781,000 lines at the end of 1989.
   But competition has been increasing for the 1,400
remaining companies, only 400 of which Rochester deems large
enough to be worth buying. (Lightly populated Iowa, for
example, has 144 companies.) The price per access line has
jumped to $2,200 from $1,500 in the last two years. Mario
Gabelli, who with a 7% interest is Rochester Tel's largest
shareholder, said it matters less what the company buys, only
that it buys while it can: "They'll have the opportunity to
trade {the subsidiaries} down the road or just keep them as
good businesses."
   The out-of-state expansion will free Rochester Tel from
its captivity under New York state regulations. It also makes
the company more difficult to be acquired, leading some to
see Rochester Tel's expansion as a takeover defense. The
company denies this motive.
   Still, General Telephone Co.'s recent merger with
Continental Telecom Inc., which will result in the largest
local phone company in the U.S. with 17.7 million access
lines, stirred speculation that Rochester Tel might be an
acquisition target, as the stock rose three points in one
day. But Nynex Corp., a likely buyer because it surrounds
Rochester Tel's territory, said it isn't in a buying mood.
   Bell Atlantic Corp., with 17 million access lines at the
end of last year, was the largest local telephone company
before the GTE-Contel merger two weeks ago. The next largest
company after Rochester Tel is Century Telephone Co. of
Louisiana, with 296,000 access lines. Rochester Tel was the
16th-largest at the end of last year.
   Rochester Tel is one of only three metropolitan-area
independents in the U.S. that escaped the Bell companies'
consolidation over the years. Executives trace this
historical anomaly to a deal the company made with rival New
York Telephone early in the century that surrendered Buffalo
but kept Rochester independent.
   The acquisitions might also counteract slow business at
home, where the phone division finds annual growth below 2%.
And the company's telecommunications units -- long-distance
service RCI, interoffice service Rotelcom, and a cellular
unit -- have posted lower-than-expected returns. But the
company likes the notion of providing one-stop shopping, and
it sees future growth in its cellular and long-distance
efforts. "We're not ready to throw the towel in," said Fred
Pestorius, chief financial officer.
   Competitors and partners say they respect Rochester's
straight-talking, aggressive style. "They don't waste a lot
of time," said John Pigott, president of Anixter Bros. Inc.,
a telephone supplies company in a joint venture with
Rochester Tel. "At big companies, everyone agrees, but
nothing happens," he said. "That doesn't happen with them."
   But while the company rings up respect in the industry,
Wall Street hasn't returned the call. Analysts say the stock
is underfollowed and undervalued. In composite trading
yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, Rochester Tel
closed at $32, unchanged.
   The company sticks to what it knows, avoiding purchases
overseas or in unfamiliar industries. "We're not going to go
out and buy a savings and loan," said Vice President John
Purcell, who heads the acquisitions.
   But even in its industry Rochester Tel may have trouble
managing its new size. "I think you get some real problems
when you have a lot of extensions all over the place," said
Jim Geist, chairman of Lincoln Telecommunications Co.,
Lincoln, Neb., the nation's 14th-largest phone company.
   Rochester Tel now must coordinate operations and deal with
regulators in nine states. But Kristin Jenks, director of
investor relations, said the company isn't worried about
service consistency. "If we were selling Hershey kisses, it
would make a difference."
   Rochester Tel prefers to let the subsidiaries run
themselves with previous management. "That's the reason we
selected them," said Gary Crum, president of the newly
purchased Schuyler Telephone Co., Rushville, Ill.
   Mr. Purcell believes home rule for the subsidiaries is
crucial. "There's a lot of talk about getting close to the
customer," he said, "but nobody gets closer to a customer
than the man or woman who runs a small company in a town of
2,000 people."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medicine:
   Lung Cancer
   Risk Linked
   To Heredity
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   Scientists said they are on the trail of a gene that
increases the risk of developing lung cancer, particularly
for smokers.
   If the gene can be found, tests could be developed that
could tell which smokers are likely to die of lung cancer
early in life and which might resist the disease until late
in life or never contract it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Two newly published research reports are the firmest proof
yet that a susceptibility to lung cancer can be passed from
generation to generation, and may explain why lung cancer is
relatively common in some families.
   "Cigarette smoking is unequivocally the most important
reason why most Americans are struck with this disease," said
Neil E. Caporaso, a researcher at the National Cancer
Institute in Bethesda, Md. and lead investigator of one of
the studies. "Yet, scientists have puzzled over why some
smokers get cancer and others don't, why only one in eight
smokers gets the disease. Genetic factors may explain why."
   The researchers haven't identified the culprit gene, nor
do they expect to find it immediately. But their reports
shine a bright light as to where other scientists should
look, and are expected to trigger a race among molecular
biologists to find a lung-cancer susceptibility gene as part
of the world-wide effort to map the human genome, the
collection of all human genes.
   Lawyers on both sides of the tobacco liability issue
predicted that the new research on the origins of cancer
could have an impact on tobacco liability suits. But both
sides said that the new findings could help their arguments.
   Tobacco manufacturers have routinely argued that
scientists have failed to prove a direct biological
connection between smoking and lung cancer. Some attorneys
who represent tobacco companies suggested that new evidence
that some people are genetically predisposed to developing
cancer will further bolster their case by casting further
doubt on the origins of disease.
   But Marc Edell, a New Jersey attorney who represents
plaintiffs in tobacco liability suits, said the findings
won't be damaging to plaintiffs. If anything, Mr. Edell said,
the notion that some consumers might be more vulnerable to
disease could mean that manufacturers would be required to
add tougher labels to packages and advertising. "This would
make it more important than ever for manufacturers to warn
consumers specifically about the risks they face," he said.
   NCI officials are concerned that the findings may lead
some to believe it may be safe for people without the gene to
smoke. They note cigarette smoking also causes heart disease
and emphysema.
   "It's our belief that everyone who smokes has some risk of
cancer," says Curt Harris, chief of the NCI's laboratory of
human carcinogenesis. "We think the gene research will point
out who has a higher, perhaps even much higher, risk than
normal."
   The new research appears in the most recent issue of the
Journal of the National Cancer Institute. In one report,
scientists at Louisiana State University Medical Center in
New Orleans and at Albert Einstein College in New York say
that by studying the occurrence of lung cancer in over 300
southern Louisiana families, they found that the disease
struck within the families as if due to a single inheritable
gene.
   The researchers, led by Thomas A. Sellers, compared the
disease pattern in three generations of these families with
the random rate of lung cancer in a similar number of
Louisiana families. The cancer families had been gathered
between 1976 and 1979, and in 1981, Mr. Sellers, a graduate
student, began analyzing the disease using new computer
programs.
   The analysis strongly suggests that inheriting a
particular gene sharply raises the likelihood of getting lung
cancer for smokers and nonsmokers. The study found that a
person who inherits two copies of the culprit gene -- one
from each parent -- and doesn't smoke has a 14% chance of
getting the cancer by age 50. That risk jumps to 27% by age
50 if the person was a heavy smoker.
   Inheriting just one copy of the gene, a more likely
occurrence for most people, raises the risk of cancer, but
mostly for cigarette smokers. At age 50, a nonsmoker with one
copy of the gene has practically no risk at all. But for a
heavy smoker that risk rises to 5% by age 50, to 16% by age
60, and to 25% by age 70. By age 60 a heavy smoker with one
copy of the gene is 6.5 times more likely to get lung cancer
than a heavy smoker without the gene.
   George E. Bonney, a geneticist at Howard University in
Washington and an expert in analyzing gene patterns in
families, writes in an accompanying article in the NCI
journal that the sample size of the study is "so large" that
findings are "unlikely to be false." Mr. Sellers, now at
University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, says researchers are
collecting blood from family members in an effort to locate
the offending gene in the families' DNA, or genetic material.
   In a second report in the same issue of the journal,
scientists at the cancer institute point to a particular gene
as the possible culprit. In a study led by Mr. Caporaso,
researchers say they found that some people inherit a genetic
trait that makes them more likely to activate cancer-causing
chemicals contained in cigarette smoke.
   The scientists found that people who quickly metabolize,
or process, a blood pressure drug called debrisoquine seem to
have a six times higher risk of lung cancer than people who
process the drug slowly. In 1984, some scientists suggested
that the drug might provide a clue to inheriting a
susceptibility to cancer when they found that certain people
who took the drug passed out, meaning large amounts of
processed drug reached the brain. By studying numerous
families, the researchers found that the "fast metabolizing"
characteristic occurred as if due to a single inherited gene.
   The NCI scientists compared the occurrence of this
metabolizing trait in lung cancer patients with its
occurrence in a random sample of smokers. Their analysis
showed a strong link between the trait, lung cancer and
smoking. Scientists already know that a particular enzyme is
responsible for processing the drug, and that the enzyme is
produced in cells by a gene located on chromosome 22. There
are 23 matched pairs of chromosomes in every cell.
   "What we think is either this gene or a gene located near
it on chromosome 22 also processes one of the many
carcinogens contained in cigarette smoke," Mr. Caporaso says.
   Mr. Harris of the NCI says that scientists in Switzerland
are working on a test that could detect the presence of the
enzyme gene in people's blood. "A smoker who has this gene
might want to take periodic chest X-rays," he says. "Lung
cancer is treatable if caught early."
   Mr. Harris says the latest gene finding suggests that as
many as five or 10 genes are involved in the development of
lung cancer. Some of the genes may be inherited, and some may
be damaged, perhaps by chemicals in cigarette smoke.
   ---
   Kathleen Deveny contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   IMO Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   IMD WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   IMO INDUSTRIES Inc. (Lawrenceville, N.J.) -- Robert R.
Womack, 52 years old, was named president and chief operating
officer of this instruments, controls and power products
concern. In this newly created position, he will report to
the company's chief executive officer, William J. Holcombe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Dollar Sinks
   Still Lower
   Versus Mark
   ---
   Bond Rally Is Stalled;
   Blue-Chip Stocks
   See Mild Retreat
   ----
   By Tom Herman and Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The dollar slid to its lowest level against the German
mark in more than two-and-a-half years, stalling a
bond-market rally and contributing to a mild retreat in
blue-chip stocks.
   As the dollar sank, more investors sought haven in gold
and platinum, driving up prices. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average dropped 12.13 points to close at 2905.20, hurt by
late waves of computer-guided program selling and plunging
UAL Corp. shares. But broader stock-market indexes rose
slightly.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   UAL, parent of United Airlines, nosedived $16.875 to $140
after two more big banks, Citicorp and Chase Manhattan,
indicated they have pulled out of a proposed buy-out. Bond
prices, which have jumped recently, held steady yesterday.
Investors, wary of the dollar's drop, also awaited a batch of
economic reports this morning and on Friday.
   The dollar tumbled 1.4% against the Japanese yen and 1.1%
against the German mark, winding up slightly above its
post-World War II record low against the German currency.
Many traders fear that further drops will frighten foreign
investors away from American stocks and bonds.
   "It becomes hard to hold the U.S. currency when you have
higher interest rates in nearly all the other currencies,"
said Jeffrey M. Mondschein, managing director in charge of
foreign exchange at Continental Bank in Chicago.
   The dollar is drawing special attention this week because
the Treasury this afternoon is expected to announce plans to
sell more than $30 billion of new notes and bonds. Foreign
investors have bought huge amounts of Treasury issues in the
past, helping to finance the U.S. budget deficit. If foreign
investors buy less at these auctions, U.S. interest rates
could rise, hurting the stock market.
   "The dollar's weakness is terribly important," said Peter
Canelo, investment strategist at Bear Stearns. "A falling
dollar right before a major government borrowing certainly is
not the kind of thing that makes bond and stock investors
happy."
   The dollar's weakness also could rekindle inflation fears
and persuade Federal Reserve officials not to cut U.S.
interest rates any further, several analysts warned.
   But Fed officials appear to be focusing much more on the
U.S. economy's weakness than on the dollar. They also are
still facing heavy political pressure to ease credit further
to prevent a potential recession.
   Oil stocks once again posted strong gains, helped by a
recent surge in oil prices. Utility stocks also advanced.
   In major market activity:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices were mixed. While the Dow industrials fell,
Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.60 to 356.15, and
the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index rose 0.42 to
194.60.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar tumbled. In late New York trading yesterday,
the dollar was quoted at 145.80 yen, down from 147.83 yen
Monday, and 1.5869 German marks, down from 1.6041 marks
Monday. The British pound rose to $1.864 from $1.847 Monday.
                                                                                                       

   Bonds were little changed. The yield on the Treasury's
benchmark 30-year bond rose to 8.41% from 8.40% Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   What If Your Banker Offers an Annuity?
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Move over, CDs: Investors who wander into many banks or
thrifts these days are likely to hear a pitch for
tax-deferred annuities.
   Those are savings vehicles that used to be sold
exclusively by brokers and insurance agents. Now a growing
number of banks and thrift institutions are selling them,
touting the ability of tax-free compounding to boost an 8%
return to 13%, or even more.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That can seem like a great deal, especially to someone
earning a feeble 5.5% or so in a passbook savings account.
And, after all, it's your old trusty banker who's making the
pitch.
   But annuities sold in bank lobbies aren't any different
from those sold by brokers or insurance agents. Unlike
certificates of deposit, they aren't protected by federal
deposit insurance. Investors buying any annuity have to pay
attention to the financial soundness of the insurance company
that underwrites it. They also have to beware of terms and
conditions that can lock them into low rates for years.
   "Don't let the location lull you," says Geoff Bobroff, a
senior vice president at Lipper Analytical Services Inc. who
tracks annuity performance. Investors should always check out
the merits of any annuity they consider buying, he says.
   Annuities operate much like individual retirement
accounts. Investors fork over a lump sum (typically, $5,000
or more) for a "single-premium annuity," or pay in
installments for a "flexible-premium annuity." The money then
grows tax-deferred, until it is withdrawn at retirement. At
that time, investors can choose to take the money in a lump
sum, roll it over into another annuity or an IRA, or have
their money paid out to them in installments.
   Over half of large banks and thrifts -- those with $750
million in assets or more -- now offer annuities, and will
sell approximately $9 billion in annuities this year, up from
$7 billion in 1989, according to a survey by Kenneth Kehrer
Associates of Princeton, N.J.
   The banks' biggest selling point is convenience. Customers
can purchase an annuity as easily as they buy a CD. Some
banks, including New York's Citibank, count annuity balances
towards no-fee checking.
   The annuities most commonly sold in banks and thrifts are
"fixed annuities," so-called because the interest rate is
fixed for the first year or so. Thereafter it is guaranteed
not to fall below a certain point, usually 3% to 5%.
   Sales brochures for annuities offered by several New York
banks all contain charts showing how an initial cash deposit
grows to Mount Everest size over 20 or 30 years, given a
hypothetical return of 8% and the magic of tax-free
compounding. A taxable investment, also shown on the charts,
grows to only a molehill.
   But investors have no assurance they'll actually get that
hypothetical 8% a year. Instead, annuities guarantee an
initial interest rate for the first year or so. Thereafter,
the rate investors get will be reset periodically, usually
annually, depending on how successfully the insurer invested
the money and the percentage the insurer keeps for itself.
   This makes it important for investors to ask the issuer
about the rates it has paid over the past several years, says
Mr. Kehrer. Examining the three-year performance of bank-sold
annuities, he finds that "the company with the highest
initial rate doesn't have the highest three-year
performance."
   How do rates on bank-sold annuities compare with others?
The average initial rate of the 30 annuities most frequently
sold by banks and thrifts is 8.41%. That's slightly lower
than the average rate paid on annuities sold by brokers and
slightly higher than the average paid on those sold by
insurance agents, says Mr. Kehrer.
   "Broker-sold annuities tend to have higher rates because
they have lower commissions, or also because the portfolios
contain riskier, high-yield securities," he says. On the
other hand, annuities sold by agents tend to pay lower rates
because the agents earn higher commissions, he says.
Investors should also compare surrender penalties. Most
annuities impose surrender charges that typically start at 7%
of the account balance during the first year, and then phase
out by 1% a year over the next six years.
   Some annuities come with "bail-out" provisions that enable
investors to withdraw their money without surrender
penalties, if the annual interest rate is lowered below a
certain preset minimum. Security Pacific, for example, gives
investors the option to bail out if the renewal rate falls
more than one percentage point below the initial rate.
Annuities with bail-out provisions usually pay a quarter to a
third of a percentage point less than others, says Mr.
Kehrer.
   Whatever the surrender penalty, annuity investors who
withdraw money before age 59 1/2 are subject to income taxes
on the earnings that they take out plus a 10% federal
penalty.
   Finally, before investing, investors should ask about the
financial soundness of the insurance company that issues the
annuity. Bank officials say that annuities they sell are from
high-quality issuers.
   "We do a rigorous amount of due diligence," says Ray
LuBien, executive vice president for marketing for Security
Pacific Insurance Group in San Diego. The bank insurance
group looks at ratings by A.M. Best Co. and Standard &amp; Poor's
Corp., and hires third-party consultants to evaluate
insurers' portfolio quality, he says.
   Some others say, however, that investors should be just as
cautious with bank-sold annuities as they ought to be with
annuities sold by brokers or insurance agents. "What makes
them so smart that they can evaluate an insurer?" says
Lipper's Mr. Bobroff. "I don't believe Merrill Lynch would do
any more or less due diligence than Bank of America."
   He suggests that investors are safer if they choose
annuities with interest rates that aren't out of line with
the market as a whole. "If the rates are significantly
higher," such as 10%, he says, "the investor should be put on
notice," since the insurer may be making more risky
investments in an effort to achieve the hoped-for higher
return.
   ---
    How Some Annuities Sold by Banks and Thrifts Compare
                                                                                                       

                                               PRESENT VALUE
 NAME OF BANK                  INTEREST RATE      OF $10,000
    OR THRIFT     UNDERWRITER     GUARANTEED        INVESTED
    (ANNUITY)      (RATING*)  FOR FIRST YEAR     3 YEARS AGO
                                                                                                       

 Bank of America    Great            8.50%         $12,568
 (GNA TD-76)       Northern
                   Annuity
                     (A)
                                                                                                       

 Citibank          Nationwide        8.00            N.A.
 (Landmark)        Insurance
                     (A+)
                                                                                                       

 Bank of Baltimore  Western          8.30           12,720
 (Savings Bank      National
  Deferred           Life
  Annuity)           (A+)
                                                                                                       

 Hughes Federal     Pacific          8.10           12,452
 Credit Union,      Fidelity
 Tucson, Ariz.       Life
 (Savers Annuity)    (A)
                                                                                                       

 TransOhio Savings  Keystone         8.25           12,708
 Bank               Provident
 (Key Annuity Plus)  Life
                     (A+)
                                                                                                       

 Security Pacific   Colonial         8.30             N.A.
 (Life Planner)       Penn
                     (A+e)
                                                                                                       

 Average of 30 annuities most
 frequently sold by banks

                                                                                                       

 N.A.= Not Applicable    *A.M. Best Co.
                                                                                                       

 Source: Kenneth Kehrer Associates
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Senate Panel
   Refuses to Fund
   Drug Center
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A Senate Appropriations subcommittee
rejected fiscal 1991 funding sought by the Bush
administration to establish a National Drug Intelligence
Center under the Justice Department and drug czar William
Bennett.
   Mr. Bennett is seeking an initial $46 million for the
center, but the Senate panel chose instead to apply the money
to expand an existing anti-drug program aimed at areas of
intensive narcotics traffic. Four metropolitan areas --
Houston, Los Angeles, Miami and New York -- and the Southwest
border region have been designated as targets for the
funding, which would triple to $82 million, including an
estimated $32 million for state and local aid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposed intelligence center has been a central part
of Mr. Bennett's drug strategy. But critics in Congress have
argued that the project represents a financial burden to the
Justice Department and could prove disruptive to drug
intelligence operations by other agencies.
   "If we don't get this, we'll be partially blind in the war
on drugs," said John Walters, Mr. Bennett's chief of staff
and national security adviser. But despite its stated goals,
the administration's initiative appears weakest with the very
lawmakers who sit both on the Appropriations panel and the
Senate Intelligence Committee.
   The decision to deny the funding yesterday had the backing
of Sens. Dennis DeConcini (D., Ariz.) and Alfonse D'Amato
(R., N.Y.), both on the Intelligence Committee. Moreover,
within the full Appropriations Committee, Sen. Ernest
Hollings (D., S.C.), himself a member of the Intelligence
Committee, has taken the lead in challenging funding for the
new center.
   Budget and local politics appear to play a part as well.
By reallocating the funds to cover state and local grants,
lawmakers would directly benefit their constituencies in the
Southwest and New York, for example.
   "We still think it is a high priority," said Joseph
McHugh, legislative liaison for Mr. Bennett. But he
acknowledged that the Senate strategy could prove attractive
to Southwest and Los Angeles-area lawmakers who dominate the
comparable House subcommittee, which has so far supported
funding for the intelligence center.
   The debate over drug policy comes as part of a larger
$20.7 billion bill funding the Treasury Department and Postal
Service for the new fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. An
estimated $5.9 billion is provided for the Internal Revenue
Service, a 7.2% increase over current spending but still less
than the $6.1 billion requested by the administration.
   Unlike the House measure, the Senate bill sets no specific
target for increased IRS tax enforcement against
foreign-owned U.S. companies. But in response to a request by
the agency, the Senate bill would give the IRS new authority
to hire outside experts in support of investigations and
litigation efforts against foreign-owned corporations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MCA Will Reverse
   Some Aspects of Sale
   Of LJN Toy Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MCA AKLM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   UNIVERSAL CITY, Calif. -- MCA Inc., whose foibles in the
toy business seemed behind it earlier this year with the sale
of its toy operation to Acclaim Entertainment Inc., has once
again found that the business isn't all child's play.
   The big entertainment concern said yesterday that it
agreed with Acclaim on several measures that, combined,
appear to reverse a substantial portion of the earlier sale
of MCA's LJN Toys Ltd. unit for an estimated price of about
$30 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The settlement calls for MCA to take back some assets of
LJN, including both receivables and inventory. As well, MCA
agreed to pay Acclaim $1 million in cash and up to $2 million
of its Acclaim stock, representing a portion of a stake MCA
received in April with the sale of LJN.
   In addition, MCA agreed to share with Acclaim part of the
proceeds from the future sale of MCA's remaining stake in
Acclaim.
   For its part, Oyster Bay, N.Y.-based Acclaim, one of the
largest licensees for Nintendo computer games, agreed to lift
restrictions on the 1.2 million shares of Acclaim stock held
by MCA, freeing MCA to sell those shares.
   Officials of both companies say MCA is expected to return
about 180,000 shares of stock to Acclaim, leaving MCA with a
little over a million shares.
   An MCA official said MCA will sell "substantially all" of
its remaining shares in a secondary offering tied to a
currently planned offering of two million new shares of
Acclaim. Acclaim currently has about 18.7 million shares
outstanding, including the shares issued to MCA.
   According to Gregory E. Fischbach, chairman and chief
executive officer of Acclaim, differences between the two
companies arose when two sets of accountants poured over the
assets with very different views of their values.
   Neither Mr. Fischbach nor Richard Baker, vice president
and controller of MCA, would discuss the value or details of
the inventory and receivables returned to MCA.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- MCI Communications Corp.:
   Purchase of Telecom USA
   Is Approved by the FCC
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MCIC TTT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Federal Communications Commission approved MCI
Communications Corp.'s planned acquisition of Telecom USA
Inc., Atlanta.
   The agency's Common Carrier Bureau found that the
combination "would continue to be subject to vigorous
competition" from American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co., United
Telecommunications' Sprint Communications Corp. unit and
other long-distance carriers. MCI is the U.S.'s second
largest long-distance company, and Telecom USA is the fourth
largest.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An MCI spokeswoman said the company expects to complete
the $1.25 billion merger this month after receiving approval
from various state regulators.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   Follow the Chairman: Profit
   In Own Stock Could Be Hefty
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   HMOA EFIC HCA BSBX GFD NCBC ACX
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Corporate chairmen and presidents who
substantially increased their personal stakes in their
companies in recent months made some tidy paper profits,
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission show.
   Consider 35 stock purchases of $100,000 or more by
chairmen or presidents since April 1. The top executives'
odds of making a profit on their shares appeared to hinge not
on how much money they spent, but on how big a chunk of their
total holdings the new shares represented, an analysis of SEC
filings indicates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chairmen or presidents of 10 companies felt bullish enough
to increase their stakes by more than one-third -- and all
but two have seen the share price of their company's stock go
up. Moreover, most of them chalked up gains, at least on
paper, that beat Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index, which
rose 4.7% since March 31.
   The big guns didn't always guess right. Taking into
account purchases that increased the insiders' total holdings
marginally, the top insiders as a group managed to buy their
own companies' stocks before the price went up 19 out of 35
times.
   But when they were right, they were very right.
   Robert Weinstein, president of HMO America Inc., a
Chicago-based health-maintenance organization, increased his
total holdings in the company by 62%, SEC filings show. He
paid $231,500, or $4.63 a share, for 50,000 shares in May.
The stock closed yesterday in over-the-counter trading at $7.
   Dr. Weinstein said his purchase was a bet that in coming
years HMOs will become "a much more predominant form of
health insurance." Moreover, on a technical basis, he said
the shares were trading at a "ridiculously low"
price/earnings ratio: five, compared with a P/E of 12 to 16
for other HMO stocks.
   HMO America has been "tremendously undervalued vs. other
HMOs" because the company "has not made the effort to deal
with Wall Street," Dr. Weinstein said. To correct that, he
said, it plans an aggressive investor relations program.
   Scott Nelson, president of EFI Electronics Corp. of Salt
Lake City, spent about $335,000 on 125,000 shares of the
manufacturer of electrical and computer equipment on June 26,
SEC filings show. That raised his stake by 1,875%. Mr. Nelson
paid an average price of $2.68 a share, but the stock closed
yesterday in over-the-counter trading at $3.69.
   Mr. Nelson said he bought his shares from Hospital Corp.
of America, which had decided to divest itself of a stake of
about 17% in EFI. He said that he is "happy with the growth
rate of the company" and bullish because recent costly
expenditures for research and development and automation have
been completed.
   Nathaniel Gross, president of Bell Savings Holdings Inc.,
Upper Darby, Pa., bought 75,000 shares on July 12, SEC
filings show. His purchase came at a time of some problems
for the company's Bell Savings Bank unit, but Mr. Gross said
the problems are being solved and that he thinks the shares
were a bargain.
   He paid $1.50 a share, just above the stock's 52-week low
of $1.25 and well below its 52-week high of $10.50. In
over-the-counter trading, the shares closed at $1.75.
   On July 16, the Office of Thrift Supervision imposed a
cease-and-desist order on Bell Savings Bank, limiting its
lending and deposit growth and requiring tighter
administrative and regulatory compliance procedures. Early
this year, the company had announced that the downturn in the
real estate market had negatively affected its loan
portfolio. Bell Savings has agreed to add about $12 million
to loan-loss reserves, bringing the total to $27.5 million at
June 30.
   Mr. Gross said Bell Savings now has "adequate loan-loss
reserves," and that he has "complete confidence in the
company."
   Another so-far successful purchase was made by Bryan
Lodder, president of Guilford Mills Inc. He bought 9,000
shares of the Greensboro, N.C., textile manufacturer for
$148,500 on June 29, according to SEC filings. He paid $16.50
a share. The stock closed on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday at $19 a share. Mr. Lodder declined to comment, and
a company spokesman said only that it was a "good purchase."
   In a previously reported transaction, Thomas M. Garrott,
president of National Commerce Bancorp, spent $1.6 million on
78,285 shares of the Memphis, Tenn., bank holding company in
May, filings with the SEC show. Mr. Garrott increased his
holdings in National Commerce by 34% and paid an average
price of $20.78 a share. In over-the-counter trading,
National Commerce Bancorp shares closed yesterday at $23.
   Not all the top executives who increased their holdings
substantially have lucked out. At Action Industries Inc., a
Cheswick, Pa., distributor of promotional literature and
marketing programs, company president and first-time buyer R.
Craig Kirsch spent $140,850 on 45,000 shares of stock, SEC
filings show. He paid $3.13 a share. The stock has eased to
$2.75 in American Stock Exchange trading. He wasn't available
for comment, and the company declined to comment.
   ---
               The Rewards of Self-Confidence
                                                                                                       

 Some corporate presidents who substantially increased their
stockholdings in their own companies in recent months and
their results:
                                                                                                       

             NO. OF        %              TUES.'S     %
             SHARES     INCREASE           CLOSE   INCREASE
 PRESIDENT   (MONTH        IN     PURCHASE  (per     (per
 COMPANY     BOUGHT)    HOLDINGS   PRICE   share)   share)
                                                                                                       

 R. Weinstein/HMO America Inc.
         50,000 (May)     62%     $ 4.63   $ 7.00    51.2%
                                                                                                       

 S. Nelson/EFI Electronics Corp.
        125,000 (June) 1,875        2.68     3.69    37.6
                                                                                                       

 N. Gross/Bell Savings Holdings Inc.
         75,000 (July)    47        1.5      1.75    16.7
                                                                                                       

 B. Lodder/Guilford Mills Inc.
          9,000 (June)   600       16.5     19.00    15.2
                                                                                                       

 T. Garrott/National Commerce Bancorp
         78,285 (May)     34       20.78    23.00    10.7
                                                                                                       

 Source: Invest/Net
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Boeing Co.:
   Unit Plans a Tender Offer
   Of $20 Million for UTL
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   BA UTLC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Boeing Co., Seattle, said a subsidiary plans to make a $20
million cash tender offer to acquire UTL Corp., a
Dallas-based designer and maker of electronic warfare
systems.
   Boeing said its $4.75-a-share offer, which will begin by
Monday, has been approved by the boards of UTL and Boeing's
ARGO Systems unit in Sunnyvale, Calif. The offer is subject
to certain conditions, including the tender of at least a
majority of UTL's 4.2 million shares outstanding, Boeing
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, UTL shares
rose $1.25, to close at $4.625. Boeing shares fell 87.5
cents, to close at $57.75 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading yesterday.
   A UTL spokesman said that Boeing, which currently accounts
for about 40% of UTL's backlog, is one of the company's four
major customers. UTL supplies systems used for reconnaissance
and surveillance by Boeing's Airborne Warning and Control
System aircraft, better known as AWACS.
   "By including UTL in the Boeing operating structure, we
will significantly improve our ability to meet schedule and
performance commitments to our national and international
military customers," said Dan Pinick, president of Boeing's
Boeing Defense &amp; Space Group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Valdez Decision
   Spreads Blame
   For Alaska Spill
   ---
   Safety Board Cites Exxon,
   Skipper, His Third Mate,
   Coast Guard and Officials
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   XON
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The National Transportation Safety Board --
spreading around blame for the nation's worst oil spill --
cited an array of failures by the Exxon Valdez's captain, his
third mate, Exxon Shipping Co., the Coast Guard, and state
and local authorities.
   The board's findings, which were unanimous, end a 16-month
investigation into the March 24, 1989, accident in which a
900-foot tanker smashed into Bligh Reef near the Alaskan port
of Valdez, rupturing eight cargo tanks and spilling 258,000
barrels of oil into Prince William Sound. The oil caused
extensive environmental damage and $2 billion has been spent
so far to clean up the spill.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The board said the third mate, who was navigating the
vessel at the time of the grounding, didn't maneuver the ship
properly "because of fatigue and excessive workload." It said
his boss, Capt. Joseph Hazelwood, wasn't supervising because
of his "impairment from alcohol." The captain left the bridge
minutes before the third mate began a crucial right turn -- a
turn in which improper execution resulted in the vessel
hitting the jagged submerged reef.
   The board said that other direct causes were the failure
of Exxon to "provide a fit master and a rested and sufficient
crew," the ineffectiveness of the Coast Guard's
traffic-tracking service in the area and the lack of
effective piloting services.
   The board said that tests on blood samples drawn from Mr.
Hazelwood 10 hours after the accident indicated his
blood-alcohol content was high at the time the Valdez ran
aground. But Mr. Hazelwood, who has a history of
drunken-driving convictions, has steadfastly denied being
drunk.
   Yesterday, his attorney, Thomas Russo, said that the
board's conclusions about his client's alcohol use were
"ridiculous." He reiterated contentions that the blood
samples taken from Mr. Hazelwood were mishandled by a
California laboratory. But James Kolstad, chairman of the
safety agency, dismissed those contentions, saying that the
"samples weren't tampered with."
   In March, an Anchorage jury convicted Mr. Hazelwood on the
misdemeanor charge of negligent discharge of oil. But it
acquitted him of charges of being under the influence of
alcohol, reckless endangerment and felony criminal mischief.
He is appealing his conviction.
   Last week, Mr. Hazelwood's license was suspended for nine
months after he pleaded no contest to charges of negligently
leaving the tanker bridge and violating a ban on drinking
under four hours before sailing. The Coast Guard dropped
charges of drunkenness.
   The safety board also criticized Exxon Shipping for
failing to monitor Mr. Hazelwood's drinking problem, and said
the Coast Guard did an inadequate job of tracking ships and
icebergs in the area. The agency faulted Alaska's piloting
rules, saying that in the case of the Valdez, the tanker
shouldn't have been allowed near Bligh Reef unless a
federally licensed pilot familiar with the waterway was
aboard. Such a requirement is now in effect.
   The safety board's findings aren't admissible in court.
However, facts uncovered as part of the investigation can be
admitted as evidence.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAL Shares Plunge $16.875 to $140
   As 2 More Banks Pull Back From Buy-Out
   ----
   By Randall Smith and Judith Valente
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR UAL CCI CMB BT MHC
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   UAL Corp. stock plunged $16.875 a share to $140 after two
more banks, Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp., indicated
they have withdrawn temporarily from work on a proposed $4.38
billion, $201-a-share buy-out of the parent of United
Airlines.
   The move, by the same two banks that had led last year's
unsuccessful $6.79 billion UAL buy-out attempt, threw more
doubt on prospects for this version only nine days before an
Aug. 9 financing deadline.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The three UAL unions leading the buy-out are expected to
seek an extension of that deadline at a UAL board meeting
Aug. 8. But it's unclear whether they can demonstrate enough
progress to justify an extension unless they find outside
investors willing to supply additional junior financing.
Without an extension, the unions' right to buy United will
expire.
   Yesterday's UAL sell-off in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading began after the American Banker, a
financial newspaper, reported that Citicorp had withdrawn
from a group of banks leading the financing, and that
Citicorp and Chase had skipped a key lenders' meeting Friday.
On Monday, The Wall Street Journal said Chemical Banking
Corp. had withdrawn.
   The selling snowballed after people familiar with the
buy-out confirmed that both Citicorp and Chase had "moved to
the sidelines," as one put it, leaving only Bankers Trust New
York Corp. and Manufacturers Hanover Corp. as lead banks for
the deal. The same people said all three drop-out banks were
prepared to rejoin the effort if developments warrant.
   As a result of the defections, one person said the two
remaining banks have postponed work planned for this week on
proposed terms of a bank loan of roughly $4 billion. All of
the banks are awaiting the outcome of an effort by the unions
to obtain additional financing, either subordinated debt or
equity.
   On Sunday, Gerald Greenwald, the unions' nominee to become
UAL chairman if the buy-out is completed, said the group is
"close to" obtaining debt financing from "more than one"
supplier. But the banks' pullout casts a cloud of doubt over
those talks as well.
   In a statement yesterday, the buy-out group said: "We are
continuing to work with a core group of banks to develop a
capital structure satisfactory to them from a credit and
syndication point of view. While there remain a number of
significant issues to be resolved, we continue to work toward
solutions." The group said it was "inappropriate" to comment
on the actions of individual banks. None of the banks would
comment.
   Yesterday's developments were the latest twist in a
three-year corporate soap opera. The UAL board accepted the
unions' offer, the fourth since 1987, in early April under
the threat of a proxy fight by Coniston Partners, which owns
11.8% of UAL stock. The collapse of the previous buy-out
attempt in October touched off a 190-point drop in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average.
   One reason the bank group seemed to dissolve so quickly as
the deadline neared is that the banks haven't ever formally
agreed to act as lead banks for the transaction.
   The group formed initially as a loose collection of about
eight banks that met irregularly with advisers to the
buy-out. The group was meant to be large enough to coalesce
into a so-called club deal. Instead of financing led by only
one or two banks, a club deal reduces the risk for the
individual banks by spreading responsibility for distributing
the loan.
   People close to the union effort say they never intended
to make the names of the banks public before the financing
deadline. But in early July, Mr. Greenwald named the five
banks in a confidential progress report to the UAL board.
   UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf was on the verge of placing a
mammoth aircraft order valued at $10 billion, but the unions
wanted to head off the order to preserve their bargaining
position with the airline's suppliers.
   The unions want to use the order as bait to obtain junior
financing from aircraft manufacturers and engine makers. But
the order by Mr. Wolf, who stands to lose his job if the
unions complete the buy-out, would have taken the bait away.
For Mr. Wolf, the order could have doomed the union effort
and saved his job.
   Pressed by the UAL board for evidence of progress that
would justify blocking the order, Mr. Greenwald named five
banks that were working with the union group. Although the
unions succeeded in blocking the aircraft order, the banks'
names soon became public.
   When the names of the banks began leaking out, a recorded
message on the pilots' union telephone hotline said on July 7
that the five banks "will be both participating in and
leading the financing." People close to the buy-out effort
didn't discourage that idea, even though the banks hadn't
agreed formally to do so.
   The buy-out group may have been trying to use the
appearance of having a bank group to put pressure on the
suppliers to come up with financing. Many of the suppliers
oppose making such investments, both for fear of alienating
other customers and because of the financial risk. But if the
suppliers believed the buy-out would be completed, they
risked losing the order if they didn't invest.
   When the bank names became public, some bankers involved
in the talks seemed irked at what one called "an aggressive
interpretation of events." And people close to the buy-out
group say relations with the banks have been strained ever
since.
   At the time, the bankers made it clear they wouldn't lead
the financing unless the union group obtained additional
financing. Some of the banks, such as Chemical, have insisted
that financing be in the form of equity from a substantial
investor who could be available to help repair the situation
if the airline's finances deteriorated. Other banks have also
voiced concerns about the way the unions will control the
airline.
   Yet despite blocking the aircraft order by current UAL
management, the unions haven't yet obtained any junior
financing. Some banks have indicated they would reconsider
their involvement if the unions succeed in that effort.
   At the moment, the buy-out group is trying to minimize the
public relations damage the three banks' withdrawal has done
by stressing that none of the five ever signed a formal
commitment. For that reason, one official close to the
buy-out group said, "It would be wrong to say that any bank
is in or out at this stage."
   Another person close to the transaction said it was
possible the banks were posturing to get the buy-out group to
meet their demands. "You have to ask yourself why the banks
are acting this way. Banks just don't go in and out of
deals," this person said. He added that "everything about
this process has moved slowly. The banks might be trying to
shake things up."
   The sharp decline in UAL stock left some traders licking
their wounds. Coniston, which acquired its stock for an
average disclosed price of $161 a share, is facing an
indicated loss of about $50 million on its 2.5 million
shares.
   Airline analysts said yesterday's decline brings the stock
closer to the level where it would trade in the absence of
any takeover prospects. They put that level anywhere from $90
to $120 a share, based on UAL's expected 1990 earnings of $7
to $13 a share.
   "I think there's a fair amount of skepticism that this
deal will get done. It's apparent that the Aug. 9 deadline is
going to be missed, and it shakes people's confidence," said
Helane Becker, airline analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   IBM Is Said Close
   To Accord to Sell
   Typewriter Lines
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- International Business Machines Corp. will
announce today that it is close to an agreement to sell its
typewriter and keyboard businesses and some printer
operations, industry and financial executives said.
   As reported, the computer giant has been negotiating to
sell the businesses in a leveraged buy-out valued at about
$2.5 billion. The buyer is expected to be Clayton &amp; Dubilier,
a leveraged buy-out firm that has made similar purchases of
low-technology businesses in the past.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Spokesmen for IBM, Armonk, N.Y., and Clayton &amp; Dubilier,
New York, declined to comment. But some IBM employees said
the company called meetings for early this morning of all
managers and later of all employees in Lexington, Ky., where
IBM makes typewriters, keyboards and some printers for the
U.S. market. Securities analysts also said that IBM has
arranged a conference call for this morning.
   The industry and financial executives said that IBM won't
provide many details of the planned sale and cautioned that
it could be a few months before a final agreement is signed
on the complex arrangement.
   The executives added that after the IBM operations are
spun off, they will be headed by Marvin Mann, an IBM vice
president, in a move that could allay some concerns among
Lexington employees about their future.
   Leveraged buy-outs are often followed by the sort of heavy
cost-cutting that doesn't fit in a paternalistic culture such
as IBM's. But Mr. Mann, as a longtime IBMer, will bring much
of IBM's culture with him. In addition, in the mid-1980s, he
ran IBM's information products division, which includes the
Lexington facility, so he is known to many of the people
there.
   Separately, IBM said it discontinued production of several
models of its Personal System/2 personal computers, citing
poor demand.
   IBM doesn't break out sales figures for individual models,
but industry watchers said the discontinued machines -- the
PS/2 Model 60-041, Model 60-071, Model 80-041 and Model
80-071 -- were weak performers in a generally strong PS/2
family.
   "The Model 60 especially was very underpowered and wasn't
selling at all," said Marcia Sanford of Dataquest Inc., a
market research firm. "And the Model 80 was old technology.
IBM is just doing a bit of housecleaning here."
   Though they were all marketed as "servers," machines that
act as file cabinets and traffic cops for computer networks,
the discontinued models lacked the memory and processing
strength that are necessary as networks become more powerful.
   The two Model 60s will be replaced by the Model 65 SX,
introduced in March; and the two Model 80s will be supplanted
by faster, more capacious versions of the same basic machine,
also introduced in March.
   IBM said the computers may be ordered from existing stock
until Oct. 31 and that their list prices have been reduced by
24% to 34%.
   ---
   Laurence Hooper contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS DIS PSSP
</CO>
<LP>
   WHO'S NEWS: Charles E. Gates, 53, president of Price Stern
Sloan Inc., was elected to the additional title of chief
executive officer of the publishing concern. He succeeds L.
Lawrence Sloan, 67, who remains chairman. . . . Walt Disney
Co. named Richard Cohen executive vice president, Buena Vista
Home Video Worldwide. He was the unit's senior vice
president.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Brooklyn Union Gas Co.:
   Judge Recommends Increase
   Of $40.4 Million in Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BU
</CO>
<IN>
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Brooklyn Union Gas Co., New York, said an administrative
law judge recommended that it be allowed a $40.4 million rate
increase, which would be the utility's first rate gain in
five years.
   The increase, to take effect in October, would reflect a
12% return on equity. Brooklyn Union Gas had sought a $49
million increase, reflecting a 13.2% return on equity, to
cover increased maintenance and other expenses. The utility
has until Aug. 14 to challenge Judge Edward D. Cohen's
recommendation before the New York State Public Service
Commission, which is expected to make a final decision by
October.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The commission's staff several months ago proposed a $28
million increase, representing an 11.2% return.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Economic Indicators
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The Japanese economy's leading indicators for May
rose to 63.6, well above the boom-or-bust line of 50.0,
suggesting continued steady growth for the economy, Japan's
Economic Planning Agency reported.
   The leading indicators were up from a revised 54.5 in
April. It was the third consecutive month that the index
stayed above 50.0.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agency interprets any figure above 50.0 as a sign that
the economy should continue to expand over the next six
months, an official said. Any number below 50.0 is seen as a
sign that the economy could begin to contract.
   Although four of the 11 components of the index -- new job
offers, real machinery orders, construction orders and
consumer durable shipments -- fell from the previous month,
agency officials called the decline a reaction to high
previous levels rather than a sign of slowdown.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hercules Inc. Expansion
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   HPC
</CO>
<LP>
   WILMINGTON, Del. -- Hercules Inc. said it plans to start
construction next year on a $23.7 million research center in
Barneveld, the Netherlands.
   The chemicals company said the research will support its
businesses in paper chemicals and flavors and fragrances. The
company expects the facility to be completed by late 1992 and
initially to employ about 90 scientists.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pic `N' Save Unveils Plan to Cut Costs
   And Buy Back Shares; Chief Resigns
   ----
   By Earl C. Gottschalk Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   PICN WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   DOMINGUEZ, Calif. -- Pic 'N' Save Corp., embroiled in a
proxy fight with Girard Partners L.P., unveiled a plan to cut
costs and resume a stock buy-back program in an effort to
placate shareholders.
   The company also announced the resignation of its
chairman, president and chief executive officer, Lewis
Merrifield III, who had been under fire.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plan includes immediate resumption of the discount
retailer's $60 million program to repurchase its shares in
the open market and a schedule of cost cuts. Capital
expenditures and general and administrative expenses will be
slashed and unprofitable operations curtailed, the company
said.
   "The message from our stockholders that they wanted an
immediate increase in shareholder value was not lost on the
board or the management of the company," the board said.
   Mr. Merrifield, 50 years old, chairman, president and
chief executive for the past three years, had attempted to
expand the company by opening more stores. But he came under
sharp criticism from shareholders for increasing expenses and
a 34% decline in 1989 earnings even though sales increased
18%.
   In April, Girard Partners, an investor group controlled by
David H. Batchelder, announced that it planned to make a bid
for the company, which specializes in close-out merchandise.
But on Monday, Girard said it couldn't come up with the cash
to acquire Pic 'N' Save at a price attractive to
shareholders. The battle had been headed for a climax at the
company's Aug. 29 annual meeting.
   Pic 'N' Save's plans and Mr. Merrifield's resignation
appear to meet most of the demands of the Batchelder group.
Mr. Batchelder didn't respond to a request to comment on Pic
'N' Save's plan.
   Some analysts reacted favorably to the plan, saying they
thought it would get the company back on the track of
earnings growth. "But management has a lot of proving to do,"
said Marcia Koory, analyst at Kirkpatrick, Pettis, Smith,
Pollan, an Omaha, Neb., brokerage firm. "A lot of big
shareholders have been disenchanted with Mr. Merrifield's
performance."
   Mr. Merrifield will resign effective Jan. 1 as president
and chief executive. Arthur Frankel, 63, former chairman,
president and chief executive of Pic 'N' Save, was elected
chairman. Mr. Merrifield relinquished that title immediately.
The board said it intends to form a search committee to find
a president and chief executive who is a specialist in
merchandising. Mr. Merrifield is an attorney with a
background in corporate law.
   Mr. Merrifield said he had accomplished "most of what I
wanted to" and that his investments and programs were
beginning to achieve their desired results. A specialist in
merchandising would manage the company "in accordance with
its new strategy of maximizing cash flow," he said.
   Pic 'N' Save said that over the past several days it has
been in discussions with Girard Partners to try to find a way
to avoid resumption of a proxy fight but that Girard's
demands were unacceptable to the board. The company said that
despite its efforts for 2 1/2 months, it had received no
satisfactory offers to purchase the company. The board said
it is still willing to speak with interested parties
concerning a sale of the company.
   Under the $60 million share-repurchase program, Pic 'N'
Save said it will immediately begin buying its shares,
subject to market conditions. The company said it also is
"aggressively pursuing prudent senior bank debt borrowing
opportunities in order to increase its repurchase program to
up to $150 million." Pic 'N' Save said it has a "strong
expression of interest" from a financial institution to
provide funds for an increased buy-back.
   The company said its plan includes a 20% reduction in
corporate staff and a continued moderation in the rate of new
store openings. A total of 59 positions and related expenses
are being eliminated from the corporate, store,
administrative and warehousing staffs, the company said. Pic
'N' Save said it plans to open 20 stores this year, 15 fewer
than in 1989. The company plans to open only 10 stores in
1991 and 1992.
   Some analysts who follow the stock advised shareholders to
hold tight through the current unrest. "The story isn't yet
played out," said Ms. Koory, who said she expects further
"maneuvers" by the Batchelder group. Barry Rothberg, analyst
at Mabon Nugent, a New York investment firm, called the moves
"a reasonable course of action which should return the
company to earnings growth in 1991." He said he doesn't see
"much risk" in the stock at the current depressed level. Pic
'N' Save shares closed at $10, down 62.5 cents, in national
over-the-counter trading yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- UDC-Universal Development:
   Partnership Hires Banker
   To Help Review Strategy
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UDC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   UDC-Universal Development Limited Partnership, Tempe,
Ariz., said it retained an investment banker to help review
strategic and financial alternatives for the company to
"increase shareholder value."
   A spokesman said "we haven't limited our alternatives"
when asked whether the options might include a sale of the
partnership. The review wasn't prompted by any expressions of
interest from potential acquirers, he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   UDC-Universal, a home builder with operations in
California, Arizona, Florida, Georgia and the Carolinas, said
it believes its stock is undervalued because investors are
focusing on its current financial results rather than its
long-term value.
   UDC-Universal shares, which traded as high as $27.25
earlier this year, rose $1.375 to $13.625 yesterday in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Last week, UDC-Universal reported that second-quarter net
income fell 59% to $4.9 million, or 16 cents a share, from
$12 million, or $1.11 a share, a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Commonwealth Mortgage:
   Some Operations to be Sold
   To Affiliate of Bass Group
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CMA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Commonwealth Mortgage of America L.P. said it made a
preliminary agreement to sell its mortgage-servicing
operation and $7.2 billion mortgage-servicing portfolio to an
investor group affiliated with Fort Worth, Texas, billionaire
Robert M. Bass. It wouldn't disclose terms.
   Included in the sale is a data-processing center owned by
Commonwealth Federal Savings Association, an insolvent thrift
that owns all the Series I preferred units of limited partner
interests in Commonwealth Mortgage. The thrift is controlled
by the Resolution Trust Corp., a government agency.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Buyers include Castine Partners Ltd., an affiliate of
Robert M. Bass Group, and Barron Financial Group, a Tustin,
Calif. mortgage bank.
   The proposed sale, part of a planned liquidation of
Commonwealth Mortgage, would strip the company of
"substantially all remaining assets," a spokesman said.
Proceeds will be used to reduce debt, the company said,
adding that holders of the Class A units are unlikely to
receive any liquidating distribution.
   Commonwealth Mortgage said its mortgage-servicing
operation, which services loans nationwide, and its staff of
about 450 will continue to be based in Houston.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Texas Bay Oil Spill Threatens Wildlife;
   Few Vessels Are Allowed Into Channel
   ----
   By Sue-Sun Yom
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   SB
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Oil spilled from a tanker-barge crash began to
threaten shellfish and wildlife in Texas's Galveston Bay and
blocked the busy Houston Ship Channel to most traffic for a
third day. A few vessels were allowed through last night on a
sharply limited basis.
   A collision Saturday between a double-hulled tanker and
two barges originally laden with 1.7 million gallons of
partially refined crude triggered the spill. Initially, Coast
Guard officials estimated that only about 50,000 gallons of
oil from the barges went into the bay, but they have since
raised that to some 500,000 gallons, making the incident a
"major" spill.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So far, the cost of fighting the spill is being borne by
the owner of the barges, APEX Towing Co., a division of APEX
Oil Co. of St. Louis. While that is the usual practice, in
some recent major U.S. spills, the cargo owner has eventually
ended up footing some of the bill. Phibro Energy Inc., a
Greenwich, Conn., subsidiary of Salomon Inc., owns the cargo
here. A company official said Phibro isn't yet paying any of
the costs.
   One of the damaged barges was emptied by Monday after
spilling about 48,000 gallons. But the other sank and remains
stuck on the edge where the shallow bay meets the
40-foot-deep ship channel. Its stern sits on the channel
bottom and only its bow is above water. That barge has "holes
in all three holds," said U.S. Coast Guard Petty Officer Gene
Maestas. "If it slips into the channel, all that oil's loose
and it goes where it pleases." The barge, which originally
held about 700,000 gallons, "might even float down the
channel," he said.
   Salvage workers stopped most of the flow from the
submerged barge yesterday evening and were concentrating on
pumping to another vessel what was left aboard. The tanker's
outer hull was pierced in the crash, but no oil was lost from
that ship, the Coast Guard said. Last night, a 17-mile slick
was moving on the bay.
   At the temporarily closed Port of Houston, 26 ships
yesterday waited to get out while 34 in the bay waited to
come in, said spokesman Lee Vela. The port is the world's
sixth busiest, with more than 80% of its volume related to
giant oil and petrochemical complexes here. Late yesterday,
the ship channel was opened only to inbound barges escorted
by a second tugboat and moving in single file. Ocean-going
vessels were still barred. Officials wouldn't estimate when
the channel might fully reopen.
   Local maritime shipping experts estimate the closing is
costing the owners of the idled ships $1 million to $1.5
million a day. During the day, three general cargo ships
switched to the Port of Galveston, and "we're talking with a
number" of representatives of others, said Galveston port
director Doug Marchand.
   The cause of the crash remains under investigation. "We've
got a fairly good safety record, but we've got a very narrow
channel. There are a number of fender-bender type accidents
on the channel every year," said Mr. Vela, the Houston port
spokesman. A project that would widen the ship channel to 530
feet and deepen it to 45 feet is awaiting congressional
funding, he said. "That extra 130 feet for ships to pass is
extremely important."
   Some groups are already calling the spill a "calamity."
The type of oil spilled is particularly thick and gooey and
"environmentally persistent," according to the Coast Guard.
"All of the birds that live and breathe and eat along the
coast are threatened," especially several endangered
shore-bird species now migrating through Texas, said Gary
Clark, president of the Houston Audubon Society. Others cited
two protected species in particular: piping plovers and brown
pelicans.
   David Hankla, a U.S. Fish and Wildlfe Service field
supervisor, said he has "scattered reports of oiled birds,"
but he called the problem "minimal at this time."
   Mr. Clark of the Audubon Society said some oil is already
leaking into marshlands. "That's {the birds'} grocery store,"
he said. He also said oyster beds "could be wiped out for
several seasons; no doubt about it." The Texas Department of
Health stopped shrimping and oyster-gathering in some parts
of Galveston Bay, one of the nation's most-productive
estuaries.
   The spill, the second major oil-vessel accident here in
two months, angered some local groups, who charge the Coast
Guard was slow to respond on the weekend. "Next to nothing
was happening 28 hours after the spill," alleged Linda Shead,
executive director of the private Galveston Bay Foundation.
"The potential for catastrophe has been there, and we have
squeaked by, but this time it doesn't look like we're going
to squeak by," she said. In June, a huge tanker burned for
days some 50 miles off Galveston, though a major spill was
eventually averted. That case also generated charges of
unpreparedness against government agencies.
   Gary Stone, spokesman for Galveston's Emergency Operations
Center, defended the Coast Guard. "No matter how fast they
respond, somebody's going to say they could have done it
faster," he said. He maintained that an industry-funded
response team is needed on the Gulf Coast to coordinate
activities in the event of an oil spill.
   Meanwhile, what the Coast Guard called "mystery oil"
washed up on two Galveston Island beaches and is being
studied to determine its origin. There has been public
speculation that it may have been illegally dumped by a
passing vessel seeking to use the spill as a cover. "We could
not figure out how oil from the barge accident got around and
hit the beach on the gulf side," said Petty Officer Maestas.
"At that time, our calculations figured that was impossible."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Whitehall Corp.:
   Ex-Suitor Says Acquisition
   Wouldn't Be `Justifiable'
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WHT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cambridge Capital Fund Limited Partnership, a New York
investment company, said it doesn't believe it can structure
a purchase of Whitehall Corp., a Dallas-based defense
contractor, that would be "economically justifiable" and
still be acceptable to Whitehall's shareholders.
   Cambridge earlier this year attempted to acquire
Whitehall, proposing to acquire the 90.4% that it didn't own
at the time for about $20 a share. But Cambridge lost a proxy
battle to place five directors of its choosing on the
Whitehall board in April. The investment firm then withdrew
its offer to buy the company, but said it would continue to
explore alternatives.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Cambridge said it reached its conclusion following the recent
loss of business at Whitehall's Aero subsidiary in Florida
and the resignation of Whitehall's chief financial officer.
   Cambridge said it believes "a substantial redirection" of
Whitehall's business strategy is needed to "halt the erosion
of value of the stockholders' investment." Officials at
Whitehall didn't return phone calls seeking comment.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Whitehall shares closed at $12, down 50 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   House Guts Pentagon's Top Priority
   Programs as Panel Clears Spending Bill
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   NOC MD
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House Armed Services Committee approved
a $283 billion defense spending bill that guts the Pentagon's
top-priority strategic programs, shelves production of other
big-ticket weapons and cuts three times as many troops as
President Bush proposed.
   Reflecting intense bipartisan pressure to shrink military
spending in light of reduced U.S.-Soviet tensions, the
committee rejected additional purchases of B-2 Stealth
bombers, built by Northrop Corp. The panel also eliminated
all funds to begin deploying nuclear-tipped MX missiles on
special railroad cars, and it slashed funds for research on
the Strategic Defense Initiative, a proposed space-based
antimissile shield.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Proposed cuts in these three areas alone -- which include
the administration's most sought-after defense items --
account for nearly one quarter of the committee's overall $24
billion cut from Mr. Bush's military spending blueprint for
the fiscal year starting Oct. 1. The vote on the B-2 was
34-20, with nine Republicans voting to halt additional
purchases.
   Even Republicans shied away from an all-out committee
battle to try to save the radar-eluding B-2 or mobile MX, for
instance, because support for both weapons is bleaker in the
full House. Funding for SDI, which the panel reduced to less
than $3 billion from the administration's $4.7 billion
request, is almost certain to face another round of proposed
cutbacks when the bill reaches the House floor in September,
when lawmakers return from their August recess.
   "The bill reflects the changes in the world," said Rep.
John Kasich (R., Ohio). The committee's message, added Rep.
Pat Schroeder (D., Colo.), is that "we're not going to get
into a bidding war with the Soviets to see who is more macho
by spending more on defense."
   After meeting behind closed doors for much of the day,
lawmakers also approved cutting 129,500 troops -- at least
50,000 of which are supposed to come from Europe -- from the
current 2.1 million active-duty force by the fall of 1991.
The administration had proposed trimming slightly more than
40,000 troops.
   The committee's bill is bound to upset the Pentagon in
other ways, too. Reflecting lawmakers' often parochial
concerns to keep bases open and save local defense jobs, the
measure projects adding some 22,000 reservists to the force
in fiscal 1991. And, over the objections of Defense Secretary
Dick Cheney, lawmakers authorized some $400 million for
development and long-lead procurement of parts for the Marine
Corps' proposed V-22 tilt-rotor troop transport. The
administration tried but failed to kill the transport in last
year's budget.
   The final version of the bill, in part, represents an
endorsement of Chairman Les Aspin (D., Wis.), who opposed
nearly all of the big-ticket items that were cut and worked
hard behind the scenes to cobble together bipartisan
compromises on other weapons. But in the process, Rep. Aspin
apparently traded away any chance to kill the V-22, shut down
all production lines for the Army's M-1 tank or begin phasing
out production of front-line F-15 Air Force fighters -- all
initiatives embraced by the administration and by Rep. Aspin
in the past.
   The Senate, which is slated to complete action on its
version of the defense bill in the next few days, is bound to
be more generous than the House in supporting the B-2 bomber,
SDI and other administration priorities. But there, too,
political horsetrading is expected to keep alive certain
expensive programs the administration is eager to end.
   As expected, the committee also shelved for the
foreseeable future production of the Army's proposed $42
billion fleet of LH helicopters, the Air Force's next
generation front-line fighters and the troubled C-17 cargo
planes. The new ground rules adopted by the panel, intended
to delay production of more than $120 billion of aircraft,
call for testing prototypes and completing engineering work
before deciding whether to begin full-rate production.
   Although the LH has been the Army's most cherished weapons
program for years, opponents won a surprising 32-22 vote to
place it on hold. "The Army wanted to start bending metal
next year," said Rep. Larry Hopkins (R., Ky.), one of the
helicopter's leading critics. "But the LH is dead. There's no
doubt about that."
   The committee also voted to postpone further purchases of
the Air Force's C-17, built by a McDonnell Douglas Corp.
unit. Rep. Albert G. Bustamante (D., Texas) said the
committee voted to withhold production funds until at least
1992, pending the results of C-17 flight tests.
   The go-slow approach embraced by the panel also slashed
production funds from the Navy's carrier-based, A-12 attack
planes, which the Pentagon acknowledges have "serious
problems" meeting weight requirements and production
schedules. Moreover, lawmakers voted to withhold all of the
$1.32 billion in production money sought for the Air Force's
AMRAAM air-to-air missile. And the committee barred the
Pentagon from spending more than $2.7 billion of long-lead
production money until Congress receives the detailed
five-year spending plan required by law.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Slides as Sell-Off Continues;
   Biotechnologies Plunge on FDA News
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   MENT
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Continued skittishness toward biotechnology stocks helped
fuel another decline in over-the-counter shares.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 1.14 to 438.24, a 0.3%
decline, as volume rose to 135.2 million shares from 120.4
million Monday. Declining stocks again outpaced advancers,
1,034 to 912.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sharply falling dollar helped boost the prices of
over-the-counter foreign issues traded as American depositary
receipts. The Nasdaq ADR index of about 40 issues rose 1.88
to 154.96, as L.M. Ericcson Telephone jumped 9 1/2 to 231,
Reuters Holdings climbed 5/8 to 59 and Cadbury Schweppes
gained 1 to 64 1/2.
   On the other hand, continued selling in computer-related
and biotechnology shares pushed the Nasdaq 100 index down
1.07 to 445.77 and the Nasdaq Industrial index down 1.06 to
472.81. The Nasdaq Financial and insurance indexes both
posted slight gains.
   The choppy market continued to reflect caution among
dealers wary of earnings disappointments and other surprises.
Ralph Costanza, director of trading at Smith Barney, Harris
Upham &amp; Co., attributed the volatile market to "dealers
wanting to be tight, lean and mean."
   "Everyone is cost-conscious around the Street," Mr.
Costanza explained. "No one wants to get caught with big
positions" in stocks, he said. Institutions and small
investors have been relatively inactive in recent days, he
added.
   Biotechnology stocks dominated the day's activity amid
news from a meeting this week of a Food and Drug
Administration advisory committee reviewing the products of
several companies.
   Trading in Immunex mirrored Monday's wild swings in Cetus.
Immunex traded as high as 34 and as low as 26 1/2 before
closing at 27, down 4, after the FDA panel declined to
approve the company's GM-CSF product to treat graft failure
in bone marrow transplants. Dow Jones Professional Investor
Report said that the committee recommended that testing of
the product be expanded, but didn't allow the company to go
ahead and earn a profit on sales of the product.
   Cetus, the day's most active stock, tumbled 3 3/4 to 10
3/8 on 7.3 million shares after the FDA panel Monday
postponed making a recommendation about the use of the
company's interleukin-2 product for the treatment of advanced
kidney cancer.
   Among other analysts, Lehman Brothers analyst Teena L.
Lerner cut her investment opinion on Cetus to "sell" from
"attractive," according to Mitch Meisler, executive vice
president of OTC trading at Lehman. Among other biotechnology
shares, Amgen fell 1 3/8 to 86 1/4, Genetics Institute
dropped 1 1/4 to 34 1/4 and Chiron fell 5/8 to 39 1/4. Ms.
Lerner recommended buying those three shares on weakness,
according to Mr. Meisler.
   One biotechnology stock stood out among the others. Biogen
jumped 3 1/8 to 26 3/4 after an FDA panel yesterday
recommended approval of alpha-interferon for an additional
use in treating chronic cases of certain types of hepatitis.
Biogen, of Cambridge, Mass., developed the drug, which is
marketed in partnership with Schering-Plough Corp. Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co. biotechnology analyst Michael Sorrell told
DJPIR he repeated his "buy" opinion on the stock yesterday.
   Buy-out news fueled a 1 1/4-point jump in UTL Corp. to 4
5/8. Boeing Co. said its wholly owned ARGOSystems unit will
make a $4.75-a-share cash tender offer for the Dallas maker
of electronic warfare systems.
   Takeover speculation also helped fuel the 9 1/2-point rise
in L.M. Ericsson ADRs, according to DJPIR. Shearson Lehman
telecommunications analyst Maria F. Lewis suggested the
issues might have risen in takeover speculation after this
newspaper reported that Japan's Fujitsu Ltd. is interested in
expanding its ties with West Germany's Siemens AG as part of
its expansion into the European market.
   Check Technology climbed 1/2 to 4 after the St. Paul,
Minn., provider of computerized check-printing services
reported net income for the third quarter ended June 30
jumped to 17 cents a share from five cents a year earlier.
   A new issue, Allied Clinical Laboratories, closed
unchanged at 13 on nearly 1.1 million shares. A 1.7
million-share offering of the operator of regional clinical
testing laboratories was made late Monday at $13 a share.
   Hologic skidded 2 1/4 to 24 1/4 after the Waltham, Mass.,
maker of specialized X-ray systems said it doesn't expect to
maintain its rate of growth in the fiscal fourth quarter
because of seasonal variations in order rates from Europe.
Hologic also reported net income for the third quarter ended
June 30 rose to 19 cents a share from 14 cents a year
earlier.
   Employers Casualty stumbled 7/8 to 3 3/4 after the Dallas
insurer raised its reserves by $100.6 million, reflected in a
loss for the first six months ended June 30 of $9.40 a share,
compared with a loss of $1.60 in the first six months of
1989. For the second quarter, the company reported a loss
$8.49 a share, compared with a year-earlier loss of $2.15.
Employers Casualty said the major portion of the reserve
increase is for liability losses, including claims made many
years after the policies providing coverage were written.
   National Data dropped 1 1/4 to 13 after the Atlanta
provider of billing and other computer services reported a
loss for the fourth quarter ended May 31 of $1.32 a share,
compared with year-earlier net income of 53 cents a share.
The recent loss included charges totaling $19.6 million,
including a $10.7 million restructuring charge.
   Mentor Graphics fell 1 to 15 1/4 on 1.3 million shares
after analysts met with the Beaverton, Ore., maker of
electronic design automation systems, DJPIR said.
   Hambrecht &amp; Quist analyst Robert G. Herwick, who repeated
an "aggressive buy" opinion on Mentor, said the stock
stumbled after company officials indicated Monday that
third-quarter results might be hurt if Hewlett-Packard
doesn't deliver a new workstation by the end of August. There
appears to be "some risk, but not overwhelming," that Mentor
might miss its August shipment of electronic design
automation systems, which use the workstations, because of
the Hewlett-Packard delay, Mr. Herwick told DJPIR.
   However, the analyst said he expects Mentor to rebound
next year after being "marginally profitable" in this year's
third and fourth quarters. Dean Witter Reynolds analyst
Timothy R. McCollum agreed the company's near-term outlook is
"dicey," while saying he's "very positive" on its longer term
prospects.
   Among other active technology issues, Intel rose 1 1/8 to
44 1/2; Microsoft fell 1 1/2 to 66 1/2; and Apple Computer
eased 3/8 to 42.
   ---
   NEW MARKET-MAKING SYMBOL: Shearson Lehman Hutton, which
today officially changes its name to Shearson Lehman
Brothers, also is changing the symbol it uses to make markets
in OTC stocks to "LEHM" from "SAXP." The brokerage firm is
the largest market maker in OTC stocks.
   ---
   Jean Erickson contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Saab-GM Sales Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   GM S.SAA
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Saab Automobile AB, the fledgling joint
venture between General Motors Corp. and Saab-Scania AB,
agreed to begin selling GM's U.S.-built cars, light trucks,
pickups and vans through its Swedish dealer network.
   The move offers GM a national sales base in Sweden in time
to tap an expected surge in pickup and van sales in coming
years. In turn, the addition of GM models could help
beleaguered Swedish dealers plug a gap caused by plunging
sales of new Saabs this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The GM marketing alliance also underlines Saab
Automobile's growing autonomy by thrusting the unit into
head-on competition with its Swedish parent. GM's biggest
rival in Sweden's burgeoning pickup and van market is the
Swedish sales unit of Volkswagen AG -- in which Saab-Scania
owns a controlling 67% stake.
   Saab officials expect to sell about 5,000 GM vehicles --
representing revenue of about one billion Swedish kronor
($170.8 million) -- during the pact's first year. Last year,
GM sold about the same number of vehicles here, directly
imported from the U.S. by less than a dozen independent
dealers.
   In all, Swedes bought about 10,000 new U.S. autos last
year -- a sharp increase in volume compared to the early
1980s when the buoyant dollar effectively priced U.S. gas
guzzlers out of the Swedish market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Top Bush Advisers
   Will Urge Veto
   Of Junk-Fax Bill
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The White House said senior advisers to
President Bush will recommend a veto of House-passed
legislation to curb unsolicited sales pitches delivered by
fax machines and automatic telephone-dialing services.
   Under the bill, which passed by voice vote Monday,
consumers and businesses would have "the ability to `just say
no' to unsolicited telephone advertisements," said Rep.
Edward Markey (D., Mass.), an author of the legislation. But
a White House spokeswoman called the bill unnecessary, saying
the number of complaints are small and that problems can be
resolved through existing procedures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the bill, the Federal Communications Commission
would establish a national clearinghouse to keep a list of
consumers and businesses that don't want to receive "junk"
facsimile messages or recorded telephone solicitations
delivered by automatic dialing machines. Advertisers would
have to pay a fee for the list, but the service would be free
for consumers.
   The FCC would set penalties for advertisers that ignore
the list and would establish technical and procedural
standards for fax machines and automatic dialers.
   Junk-fax problems have mushroomed with the boom in
facsimile machine sales. Similarly, more and more consumers
have been bombarded with unsolicited pitches from automatic
dialers as telemarketers cut costs by reducing their work
forces. Many of the consumer complaints have been directed at
computerized dialing machines that tie up phone lines while
the machines deliver their messages.
   Just how far the bill can go is uncertain. The Senate
Commerce Committee has sent to the Senate floor a separate
telemarketing fraud bill with a provision that requires the
Federal Trade Commission to regulate automatic dialers,
banning those that tie up consumers' phone lines. A House
aide suggested that differences could be ironed out by a
conference committee.
   Separately, the Senate Commerce Committee approved by
voice vote a measure to allow telephone companies to provide
a "video dial tone," carrying movies and other
cable-television fare over the public switched network as
common carriers without the need to obtain a cable franchise.
Although the measure appeared to be a step forward for phone
companies, it could hurt them as they push for the ability to
own the content of video programming carried over their
networks.
   The argument is somewhat academic because the phone
networks currently aren't capable of carrying video signals.
Although the phone companies had told lawmakers that they
would speed up installation of fiber-optics networks if they
were allowed to own video programming, the potential problem
of phone companies using their monopoly phone service to
subsidize competitive video services outweighed any promised
benefits.
   The video dial-tone measure was substituted for a bill
that would allow independent telephone companies into the
cable business with limited ownership of programming. The
video dial-tone bill could be added to the cable legislation,
but cable and consumer groups said they believe the measure
kills the telephone companies' efforts to expand into cable.
   The seven regional Bell companies face an additional
hurdle: They are barred from the cable business by the
consent decree that broke up the Bell System in 1984. The
seven Baby Bells wouldn't be allowed into the business until
the consent decree restrictions are lifted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Times Mirror Files
   $7.1 Million Lawsuit
   Against an Insurer
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TMC
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Times Mirror Co. has sued Federal Insurance
Co. for allegedly failing to reimburse the media concern for
a $7.1 million settlement of a class-action suit over a
company pension plan.
   According to a complaint filed in federal court here,
Warren, N.J.-based Federal issued a "fiduciary liability"
policy to Times Mirror in September 1987, but has asserted
that the policy does not cover a dispute over the "excess
assets" of a Dallas Times Herald pension plan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federal Insurance officials in Warren and in New York City
couldn't be reached for comment late yesterday.
   The class-action lawsuit against Times Mirror was filed in
Texas in December 1988. It charged Times Mirror with
breaching its fiduciary duty to employees by attempting to
terminate a pension plan and retaining about $14 million of
excess assets.
   A settlement increasing benefits to the lawsuit class
members by about $7.1 million was approved in June last year.
   According to the Times Mirror complaint, Federal argued
that Times Mirror was not acting in a fiduciary capacity in
regard to the pension plan, the class suit did not allege a
"wrongful act" as defined in the insurance policy, and the
policy does not cover benefits becoming due in the future
such as pension benefits.
   Federal has, however, paid more than $750,000 in legal and
actuarial costs arising out of the class action. The Times
Mirror suit seeks a declaration of rights plus $7.1 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Petrofina S.A..
   Petrochemical Concern's Net
   Fell 12% for 1990 First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   B.PET
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Petrofina S.A. said lower petrochemical prices and the
weak dollar knocked its net profit down 12% in the first
half.
   The Belgian oil and petrochemical company said net profit
totaled 10.13 billion Belgian francs ($306.8 million), down
from 11.49 billion Belgian francs a year earlier. The company
didn't provide figures for total sales.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On the Brussels Bourse, Petrofina shares slipped 225
Belgian francs to close at 11,800 Belgian francs. Patrick de
Bellefroid, chief analyst at Puissant Baeyens Poswick &amp; Cie.,
called the results "a bit disappointing" and said his firm
might have to reduce its forecast for the full year, which
had called for earnings about even with 1989's 21.82 billion
Belgian francs.
   Though Petrofina's petrochemical results were down
substantially in the half, the company said profit margins
began to improve in the second quarter for two of its main
products, high-density polyethylene and polypropylene.
   The weak dollar hurt Petrofina's results partly because
the company derives substantial income from its American
Petrofina Inc. unit.
   In Europe, Petrofina said its sales of gasoline and other
motor fuels rose 8%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Energy Service Co.:
   Texas Drilling Firm to Sell
   Two Rigs for $95 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   ESV
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Energy Service Co., Houston, said it agreed to sell two
semi-submersible rigs and related equipment from its Penrod
Drilling Corp. affiliate's fleet of offshore and onshore rigs
to Wilrig AS of Norway for $95 million.
   Energy Service, an oil and gas drilling concern, said the
sale is expected to help finance a recapitalization of
Penrod, of which Energy Service, as partner in an investment
group, holds 40.2%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sale is conditional upon completion of the purchase of
the remaining 31% of Penrod's senior debt and equity
securities by the investor group and another group holding
28.5%. Energy Service said the two groups expect to complete
that purchase by Oct. 31.
   Energy Service said the two rigs are currently operating
in the Gulf of Mexico, and are expected to be moved to the
North Sea by Wilrig. As part of the pact, Wilrig has options
to purchase three additional rigs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Farm Prices in July
   Held at June Levels,
   Rose 2.7% From 1989
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Average prices received by U.S. farmers in
July were unchanged from June, as higher prices for milk and
vegetables offset lower beef and grain prices.
   Farm prices last month were still 2.7% higher than in July
1989, the Agriculture Department said. Milk prices averaged
$14.10 per hundredweight, up 30 cents from June. Commercial
vegetable prices rose 20% in July, while fruit prices rose
7.9%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Beef cattle prices averaged $72.40 per hundredweight, down
$2 from June, the department said. Prices for steers and
heifers fell $2.10, to $75.40 per hundredweight, while cow
prices slipped 80 cents to $53.10. Hog prices averaged $60.10
per hundredweight, unchanged from June, but were $14.20
higher than a year ago. Barrows and gilts rose 30 cents to
$61.60 per hundredweight, while sows dropped $4 to $47.
   Wheat prices averaged $2.81 a bushel, down 27 cents from
June, according to the department. Corn prices slipped two
cents to $2.61 in July, while oats fell 12 cents to $1.22 a
bushel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- National Westminster Bank PLC:
   Concern Posts 22% Increase
   In 1st-Half Pretax Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   NW
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   National Westminster Bank PLC, Britain's second-largest
commercial bank, said yesterday its pretax profit for the six
months ended June 30 rose 22% from the year-earlier period to
#431 million ($796.3 million).
   Pretax profit in the first half of 1989, which was hurt by
provisions against loans to lesser developed countries, was
#352 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As in the year-earlier period, the bank's pretax profit in
the latest period was curbed by #425 million in net loan
charges.
   But even though the latest period's loan provisions were
down 27% from #585 million in the first half of last year,
the key difference this time around is that the provisions
were to cover exposure in the U.K. and U.S. markets rather
than in developing countries.
   Lord Alexander, chairman of NatWest, issued a cautious
statement, saying, "These profits are considerably lower than
we would have wished." Lord Alexander stressed, however, that
"problem-country debt is largely behind us" and that
NatWest's "underlying core business is sound."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Usinor-Sacilor:
   J&amp;L Credit Rating Change
   To Affect Long-Term Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.USS X.JNL
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Moody's Investors Service Inc., New York, said it upgraded
the ratings on J&amp;L Specialty Products Corp.'s senior
subordinated notes to double B-3 from single B-2. The credit
rating change affects about $200 million of long-term debt.
   The ratings agency said it based its upgrade on the
financial strength of J&amp;L's new parent, French-based
Usinor-Sacilor, which Moody's views as investment grade.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moody's said it believes that J&amp;L, a stainless-steel maker
based in Pittsburgh, should benefit from Usinor-Sacilor's
commitment to augment investments in its American operations,
the parent's better access to financial markets, and its
expertise in stainless-steel production.
   Usinor-Sacilor, headquartered in Paris, is one of the
world's largest steel makers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Group Led by Morse
   Sells F.A.O. Schwarz
   To a Dutch Concern
   ---
   Recovering From a Slump,
   Toy Retailer Has Chance
   To Expand Into Europe
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   N.KBB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- F.A.O. Schwarz has a new owner again -- the
sixth since the founding family sold the famous toy-store
chain in 1963.
   Koninklijke Bijenkorf Beheer N.V., Amsterdam, purchased
the 17-store chain from an investor group led by the
Philadelphia investment banker Peter Morse. That group had
acquired F.A.O. Schwarz in 1985 and engineered its current
recovery.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Terms of the latest sale weren't disclosed, but an
industry executive estimated the price at about $40 million,
nearly four times what the Morse group paid in 1985. F.A.O.
Schwarz said its sales will exceed $50 million this year.
   The transaction won't change the way F.A.O. Schwarz
operates, said Peter Harris, its chief executive officer. The
current management team will continue to operate
independently, he said, but "KBB's financial strength will
give F.A.O. new capital to grow and fuel its expansion into
Europe."
   The purchase of F.A.O. Schwarz gives KBB, a Dutch retail
conglomerate with sales of $2.2 billion in 1989, its first
major acquisition in the U.S. The high-end retailing business
is a niche that has proved extremely attractive to foreign
buyers. Investcorp International Inc., a partnership of
Arabian investors, recently purchased Saks Fifth Avenue for
about $1.5 billion. Investcorp earlier had made more than
$100 million in profit buying and selling Tiffany &amp; Co.
   "The acquisition gives F.A.O. access to KBB's capital and
international expertise," says Carol Farmer, a Boca Raton,
Fla., industry consultant who helped put the deal together.
"In return KBB has acquired a premier brand name in the
selling of toys and gifts," she says.
   When Mr. Morse and the investor group purchased F.A.O.
Schwarz in 1985, the 123-year-old company had lost much of
its glitter. With sales of only $20 million a year, and with
many of the stores in poor locations, F.A.O. Schwarz was
losing money.
   The new investors closed down some of the unprofitable
stores, moved the company's New York flagship store to a
larger location and opened a giant new store in San
Francisco. They also revitalized the company's catalog
operations and added a new line of products sold by mail. The
changes were instrumental in attracting about $7 million in
new capital from such venture capitalists as Prudential
Venture Partners, New York, and Boston's Charles River
Ventures. By the end of last year, sales at F.A.O. Schwarz
had more than doubled from 1985 and the company was highly
profitable, the company says.
   Frederick August Otto Schwarz, an immigrant from Germany,
opened the first Schwarz store in 1862, in Baltimore. After
running the company profitably for more than a century his
family sold it in 1963. The company then had a succession of
owners, including Parents Magazine Inc., W.R. Grace &amp; Co.,
and Christiana Cos., a San Diego real estate and specialty
retailer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Saturday Scramble
   At Virginia S&amp;L
   Spurs a Takeover
   ---
   Thrift Regulators Shut Down
   United Savings Bank
   After Run on Deposits
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   USBK
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In an unusual midweek takeover, thrift
regulators seized United Savings Bank, after the Vienna, Va.,
thrift, with $415 million in assets, experienced an
old-fashioned run on its deposits.
   Following United's report last week that it posted losses
of $11.5 million for the first six months of 1990, nervous
depositors lined up and withdrew $13 million from the thrift
on Saturday, industry sources said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "United was not likely to have been able to meet the
demands of its depositors or to pay its obligations in the
normal course of business," a statement from the Office of
Thrift Supervision said.
   United will operate under the management of the Resolution
Trust Corp., which will seek a buyer. All deposits at United
are insured up to $100,000, and government officials
dismissed the possibility of runs at other institutions.
   Thrift regulators waited until 4:15 p.m. yesterday to shut
the doors at United's offices.
   "Keep in mind, people around here may still relate to the
Maryland situation, where a state insurance fund ran out of
money," in the mid-1980s, a spokesman for the thrift office
said. In that case, some depositors had funds tied up for
weeks or months, while the mess was sorted out.
   In the federal thrift cleanup so far, government officials
say, depositors have received their funds in three to four
days even when an institution is liquidated. The far more
common practice is for the thrift to close over a weekend and
reopen Monday under a different name; depositors never lose
access to their funds.
   The takeover also was another signal that the
Washington-area real estate market, once considered
invulnerable to recession, is being hit by a slump,
particularly in the commercial sector. United's rapid-growth
strategy was fueled by heavy commercial real estate lending,
the thrift office said.
   The thrift office said the thrift was operating in an
unsafe and unsound condition, failed all three capital
requirements under the S&amp;L cleanup law, and relied heavily on
expensive brokered funds for its investments. United has
operated under strict federal supervision for 15 months, but
as of June 30, it classified nearly one quarter of its assets
as nonearning, troubled or losses.
   Shareholders will retain no interest in the institution
under government management. It was previously traded over
the counter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Telecredit Decreases
   Payout by Five Cents
   Due to Merger Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   TCRD EFX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Telecredit Inc., which in June agreed to
merge with Equifax Inc., said terms of the merger pact
require it to reduce its dividend payable in September to 25
cents a share from the 30 cents paid in June.
   As reported, Los Angeles-based Telecredit, which provides
credit verification and debit-card processing services,
agreed to merge with Equifax through a stock swap valued at
about $580 million. Equifax, based in Atlanta, is a major
provider of credit reports for retailers, banks and insurers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new dividend is payable Sept. 7 to stock of record
Aug. 15. The cut represents an about-face from the previous
quarter's five-cent boost to 30 cents.
   Lee A. Ault III, chairman and chief executive officer,
said the company's merger agreement also calls for Telecredit
to redeem the company's so-called poison pill for five cents
per right attached to each share. The redemption is to take
place shortly before the merger, which is expected sometime
this fall. The total per-share payout over a period of time
thus would total 30 cents.
   Mr. Ault said that, should the merger not proceed,
Telecredit's board would resume payment at a rate of 30 cents
a share. Asked if there was any reason to believe that the
merger might not occur, Telecredit's executive said "nothing
is over until it's over."
   Telecredit stock yesterday fell 12.5 cents to $47.75 in
national over-the-counter trading.
   Equifax stock climbed 25 cents to $18.625 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GPU Nuclear Unit to Pay
   U.S. Nuclear Agency Fine
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GPU
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- GPU Nuclear Corp. said it will pay a $50,000
fine imposed by the federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission for
a 1987 incident in which a control room shift supervisor at a
Three Mile Island nuclear reactor unit was found sleeping on
duty.
   The utility, a subsidiary of General Public Utilities
Corp., Parsippany, N.J., said the NRC confirmed the findings
of a 1987 company investigation that led to the dismissal of
the shift supervisor.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although the commission said its investigation found that
prompt and thorough action was taken by the company to
prevent a recurrence, it levied the fine because the incident
wasn't dealt with adequately by site managers.
   The company said a site manager, who was slow to act and
allowed the shift supervisor's behavior to go uncorrected for
months, was dismissed.
   The company said an internal investigation began after
people at the unit sent anonymous notes to top managers
accusing the shift supervisor of sleeping on the job.
   The utility said the incident occurred while damaged fuel
was being removed from the Three Mile Island Unit 2 reactor
vessel. That work was completed last January, the company
said.
   In 1979, a reactor cooling system failed, allowing
radioactive water to flood the Three Mile Island nuclear
power plant near Harrisburg, Pa. It was one of the nation's
worst nuclear power plant accidents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- PowerGen PLC:
   Electricity Generating Firm
   Has Profit of $431.6 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP HAN
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PowerGen PLC reported pretax profit of #233.6 million
($431.6 million) for the year ended March 31. The company is
one of two U.K. electricity generating companies scheduled to
be privatized in February.
   The results, made public for the first time, also showed a
net loss of #79.9 million, after #185.8 million of
extraordinary provisions against the cost of layoffs and a
restructuring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Comparative figures for the year earlier weren't provided.
   Robert Malpas, PowerGen chairman, wouldn't comment on a
possible bid for the company by Hanson PLC, a British
industrial conglomerate, which the government has said might
pre-empt a public share sale.
   Mr. Malpas also wouldn't comment on speculation that
PowerGen management might launch its own bid for control of
the company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Sumitomo Chemical Co.:
   Pretax Profit Climbs 8.7%,
   Net Profit Rises to High
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.SUC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sumitomo Chemical Co.'s unconsolidated pretax profit for
the first half of 1990 rose 8.7% to 27.96 billion yen ($189
million) from 25.72 billion yen a year earlier, the Japanese
company reported.
   Net profit rose 5.9% to 12.31 billion yen, a record for a
half-year period, from 11.63 billion the year before.
Per-share net rose to 7.59 yen from 7.17.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Net sales climbed 16% to 347.25 billion yen from 299.90
billion during the year-earlier period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Genzyme Corp.:
   Company Expects to Report
   Better 2nd-Quarter Results
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GENZ
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Genzyme Corp. expects to post sharply higher revenue and a
profit after a one-time gain for the second-quarter ended
June 30.
   For the quarter, the Boston-based biotechnology and
specialty-chemicals company expects to report an operating
loss of about $1.4 million, said Henri Termeer, president,
chairman and chief executive officer. However, a gain of $5
million to $10 million from the sale of a unit's stock made
profit $3.6 million to $8.6 million, or 23 cents to 54 cents
a share. The year-earlier profit was $241,000, or three cents
a share, including a tax credit of $195,000. Revenue rose
about 48% to more than $12 million from $8.1 million a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the six months, the indicated net loss was $14.6
million to $19.6 million, or 91 cents to $1.22 a share,
including the secondquarter gain and a first-quarter charge
of $20.8 million from the purchase of a limited partnership's
assets. Year-earlier profit was $407,000, or five cents a
share, including a tax credit of $250,000. Revenue rose about
36% to about $22 million from $16.2 million.
   Mr. Termeer said Genzyme's operating loss was reduced
because of higher product revenue, higher cost reimbursements
for the company's experimental drug Ceredase and improved
results at Genzyme's IG Laboratories unit, a genetic-testing
concern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Bridgestone Corp.:
   Tire Maker's Pretax Profit
   Rose 13% in 1990 First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.BDT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bridgestone Corp. reported that unconsolidated pretax
profit for the six months ended June 30 rose 13%, to 46.11
billion yen ($311.6 million) from 40.82 billion yen in the
year-earlier period.
   Net income increased 27% to 24.41 billion yen, or 31.71
yen a share, from 19.21 billion yen, or 26.19 yen a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales at the Tokyo-based tire maker rose 5%, though
receipts from North American markets were flat, the company
said. Total sales were 352.21 billion yen, compared with
334.56 billion yen.
   Sales of tires rose 2% to 267.78 billion yen from 261.44
billion yen, and made up 76% of total sales. Sales in other
areas, including industrial rubber, chemicals and sports
products, increased 15% to 84.43 billion yen from 73.12
billion yen.
   Domestic sales accounted for 68% of the total and rose 6%
from a year earlier. Overseas sales rose 5%.
   Bridgestone forecast pretax profit for the full year of 97
billion yen, net income of 51 billion yen and sales of 730
billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Official Says Canada
   Opposes Varity Plan
   To Incorporate in U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.VAT VAT CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government is opposed to Varity
Corp.'s plan to reincorporate in the U.S., said a senior
official of Canada's Department of Industry, Science and
Technology.
   William Terry, director of machinery in the department,
said Varity undertook to maintain its head office in Ontario
and to remain a Canadian corporation in a 1986 agreement with
the federal government and the province of Ontario. As part
of that agreement, the two governments invested 200 million
Canadian dollars (US$173.5 million) in Varity to help it
stave off bankruptcy-law proceedings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Victor Rice, chairman and chief executive officer of
Varity, told the company's annual meeting Monday that he
plans to seek shareholder approval to reincorporate the
industrial concern as a Delaware corporation and
simultaneously conduct a 1-for-10 share consolidation. He
said after the meeting that the company's legal advisers
believe that a move to the U.S. doesn't violate any covenants
with the government.
   "We expect Varity to live up to {its} legal obligation" to
remain a Canadian concern, Mr. Terry said. He said Canadian
government officials have met with Varity executives to
discuss the planned move, but that the talks haven't changed
the government's position.
   If Varity proceeds with the plan, Mr. Terry said the
government "would have to consider the full range of
alternatives open to us."
   One alternative could be to vote against the proposal at a
shareholders meeting. After injecting capital into Varity,
the provincial and federal governments received all the Class
II preferred shares of Varity. According to Varity officials,
the reincorporation and share-consolidation measures require
approval of at least two-thirds of each class of shares.
   Mr. Rice, of Varity, has said that it would be difficult
for the company to implement a share consolidation as a
Canadian corporation. Under Toronto Stock Exchange
regulations, a company conducting a share consolidation must
change its name. Mr. Rice said that isn't very feasible for
Varity, which changed its name from Massey-Ferguson four
years ago.
   A spokesman for the Toronto Stock Exchange said an
exemption from the regulation can be granted to a
non-Canadian company when most of its shares are traded on
foreign exchanges.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Eagle Financial Corp.:
   Company Plans Buy-Back
   To Enhance Stock Value
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EAG
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Eagle Financial Corp., hoping to enhance its stock value,
said it plans to buy back up to 10% of its shares
outstanding.
   The Bristol, Conn., bank holding company said it would
repurchase the shares periodically over the next 12 months in
the open market and in unsolicited negotiated transactions.
The company said it has about 2.7 million shares outstanding.
The shares closed yesterday at $8.75, up 25 cents, in
American Stock Exchange trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Eagle also said Ernest J. Torrizo, a director of the First
Federal Savings Bank unit, and Steven E. Lasewics Jr., a
director of the Bristol Federal Savings unit, were named
directors of the parent company, increasing the board
membership to 10.
   The boards for the subsidiaries have been replaced by the
Eagle board, which will serve concurrently as the board for
the subsidiaries, the company said. The reorganization
reduces the total number of directors to 10 from 19.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kemper Corp. Posts
   $111.2 Million Loss
   For Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   KEM
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONG GROVE, Ill. -- Kemper Corp., racked by $161.1 million
in charges to cover problems at its securities-brokerage
division, reported a second-quarter loss of $111.2 million,
or $2.28 a share.
   In the year-earlier period, the insurance and
investment-services concern had net income of $121.7 million,
or $2.46 a share. Revenue rose 12% in the latest period to
$757.9 million, from $677.8 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The one-time charges that hurt Kemper's latest results
include $141.1 million -- some $15 million more than it had
earlier projected -- to cover an overhaul effort at its
brokerage operations. The company earlier said it would take
a $126.5 million charge to write down good will and other
intangible assets at the brokerage concerns, and to cover
costs associated with a staff-reduction program in that
segment.
   Additionally, the results include a previously disclosed
$19.5 million net charge to cover an arbitration panel's May
finding that the company should pay a former employee $38.2
million.
   Kemper said the revamping of its brokerage operations "is
proceeding on track," and that it continues to expect to have
the restructuring "in place by year end." At quarter's end,
the company said, it has cut the brokerage segment's work
force by about 200 employees, "well on our way to our 600
target."
   Through the latest first half, Kemper's life-insurance
operation showed narrower margins, and earnings at its
property-casualty and reinsurance segment were off as well,
in part because of higher-than-normal losses from severe
weather in Europe and the U.S.
   Kemper didn't separately break out the segments'
performance for the second quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Lincoln Bancorp:
   Bank Adopts New Names
   To Avoid Identity Problem
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LCNB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lincoln Bancorp and its main subsidiary, Lincoln National
Bank, said they changed their names to avoid further
confusion with Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan Association, an Irvine,
Calif.-based thrift that was seized by the government last
year.
   The new names, effective immediately, are California
United Bank, N.A. for the unit, and CU Bancorp for the
Encino, Calif.-based holding company. The changes were
approved by shareholders in June, but were delayed after
another financial institution, United California Savings
Bank, tried unsuccessfully to prevent the adoption of the new
names.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CU Bancorp said that the mistaken-identity problem caused
by its old name was worsened by the fact that its president
and chief executive officer, John J. Keating, has the same
last name as Charles H. Keating Jr., chairman of
Phoenix-based American Continental Corp., former parent of
Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oppenheimer Management
   To Be Bought, Report Says
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   MCI U.BCO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Oppenheimer Management Corp.'s top executives
have apparently teamed up with Massachusetts Mutual Life
Insurance Co. to purchase Oppenheimer Management, a $14
billion fund company, from British &amp; Commonwealth Holdings
PLC.
   Oppenheimer Management's president, Jon Fossel, declined
to comment on the report, which first appeared in Investment
Management Weekly, a Boston newsletter. Mr. Fossel did,
however, say he expected to make an announcement on the sale
this morning.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   British &amp; Commonwealth, a U.K. financial-services group,
purchased Oppenheimer from another British firm, Mercantile
Holdings, shortly before the 1987 stock-market crash. But in
early June, British &amp; Commonwealth entered "administration,"
the U.K. equivalent of the U.S.'s Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law
proceedings, and it is now looking to sell Oppenheimer and
other assets to reduce its $2 billion of debt. Oppenheimer
Management isn't related to Oppenheimer &amp; Co., the U.S.
brokerage firm.
   Springfield, Mass.-based MassMutual, the U.S.'s 11th
largest life insurance company, manages and distributes
MassMutual Integrity Funds, a group of mutual funds that were
launched in 1988 and have more than $350 million in assets.
MassMutual's agents sell both the firm's own mutual funds and
those of other fund companies, including Oppenheimer's.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bonds End Mixed After Contradictory Reports
   On Economy Create Session of Trendless Trading
   ----
   By Kevin Donovan and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   S AXP KMB FRE FNM MZ SFX JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bond prices ended narrowly mixed in quiet
trading after contradictory economic reports caused prices to
meander throughout the day.
   In early trading, a mild bout of selling was inspired by a
stronger-than-expected home sales report. The Department of
Commerce reported that sales of new single-family houses rose
8.0% in June to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 581,000.
June's increase followed a revised 2.3% rise in the previous
month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 538,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There was a little bit of weakness after the new-home
sales report," said Stephen Slifer, economist at Shearson
Lehman Government Securities. "But people looked at the
numbers again and they seemed to be a bit fictitious." Mr.
Slifer suspects the data overstated the number of homes sold
in the Northeast.
   Bond prices later rebounded as investors and analysts
turned their attention to the Chicago regional index of
business conditions, which revealed a growing weakness in the
industrial sector.
   The Chicago index declined to 48.3% in July on an
unadjusted basis from an unrevised 53.3% in June. A showing
below 50% suggests that the manufacturing sector is
contracting, while a showing above 50% suggests that the
economy is expanding.
   "My sense is you would put more weight on the Chicago
Purchasing Management index," than on the home sales report,
said David Jones, economist at Aubrey G. Lanston &amp; Co.
   Mr. Jones said the Chicago survey "correlates pretty well,
in direction at least," with recent trends in the National
Association of Purchasing Management national index. The NAPM
national index for July will be released at 10 a.m. today.
   At the end of yesterday's session, prices for the
Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond were quoted 1/16 point
lower while prices for two-year Treasury notes were 1/8 point
higher. One point is equivalent to $10 in the price of a bond
with a $1,000 face amount.
   In the corporate bond market, three major corporations
tapped the market for a total of $600 million. Most of the
proceeds from yesterday's offerings will go to refinance
existing short-term debt, a trend that has taken off in
recent weeks as interest rates have declined.
   Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., the Chicago-based retailer, was the
biggest issuer of the day with an offering of $300 million of
seven-year notes through Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. and Dean Witter
Reynolds. The noncallable notes were priced to yield 9.272%.
   Desmond Wong, corporate finance director at Sears, said
the company had been tracking Treasury rates in the
seven-year to 10-year sector for several weeks.
   When yields on the seven-year Treasury note dropped to
8.31% on Monday, Mr. Wong said the company decided "to move
quickly" and take advantage of the lower borrowing costs.
   Strong investor demand enabled the company to boost the
offering from an originally planned $250 million. Bond
traders said the retailer was able to increase the size of
its offering because investors considered the yields on the
seven-year notes, which are nearly one percentage point
higher than yields on seven-year Treasury notes, very
attractive. The spread, or gap, between yields on Sears debt
and comparable paper have been widened in recent months
because the giant retailer has been hit with a credit rating
downgrade and weak earnings.
   Mr. Wong said that while the spread may be considered
wide, the company was able to lock in considerable savings as
a result of the decline in rates.
   Other offerings yesterday included American Express Credit
Corp., a unit of American Express Co., which sold $200
million of four-year notes that were priced to yield 8.73%
and Kimberly-Clark Corp. which sold $100 million of 10-year
notes yielding 9.055%.
   Although new-issue activity has been somewhat brisk
lately, new issue volume for the month of July was sharply
lower than the same period a year ago. According to IDD
Information Services, a securities-research concern, debt
financings fell 25% to $15.4 billion in July from $20.4
billion in July 1989. But corporate-bond issuance during the
January-to-July period rose 7.3%, IDD said.
   In trading, most investment-grade corporate bonds ended
unchanged to slightly lower.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 103 19/32
to yield 8.41%. The price was down from 103 20/32 to yield
8.40% on Monday. Two-year notes ended at a price of 100 7/32
to yield 7.86% compared with 100 3/32 to yield 7.93% on
Monday.
   Short-term rates were lower. The discount rate on
three-month Treasury bills eased to 7.49% for a
bond-equivalent yield of 7.72% while the rate for six-month
bills ended at 7.32% for a yield of 7.69%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-, Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage securities finished slightly lower.
   While the secondary market was lifeless, the primary
market saw some action with pricing announcements on three
real estate mortgage investment conduit securities deals
totaling $900 million.
   A $300 million issue of Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.
Remic securities is being offered by UBS Securities, a unit
of Union Bank of Switzerland. The offering is collateralized
with Freddie Mac 9.5% mortgage-backed securities.
   And pricing details of two Federal National Mortgage
Association Remics were unveiled.
   Merrill Lynch Capital Markets is underwriting a $300
million Fannie Mae Remic issue, backed by Fannie Mae 9%
mortgage-backed securities.
   The other issue, underwritten by J.P. Morgan Securities,
is also a $300 million Remic collateralized with 9%
mortgage-backed Fannie Maes.
   In the secondary market, 9.5% pass-through securities for
August delivery issued by the Government National Mortgage
Association, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae were down 5/32 at 100
3/8, 99 5/8 and 100 1/8, respectively.
   In the market for whole loan securities, there is talk
that a bid list of just under $1 billion is being circulated
by the Resolution Trust Corp., which is expected to be a
persistent heavy seller in coming months as the thrift
bailout proceeds. The RTC is the federal agency managing the
sale of assets from failed thrifts.
   Whole loans are home mortgages that haven't been packaged
into mortgage securities because they're typically too large
to meet purchasing requirements of the three federal
agencies.
   It is expected that the bid list will be readily absorbed
by the market and used in part as collateral for some Remic
deals.
                                                                                                       

   Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   In the junk-bond market, high-yield bonds, or
speculative-grade bonds with low credit ratings or no credit
ratings at all, closed with declines of 1/8 to 1/4 point,
despite a sell-off in the stock market.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which started crumbling
on fears that the employee buy-out offer for UAL Corp. might
collapse, finished down 12.12 at 2905.20.
   "I was waiting for UAL and the stock market to take the
junk-bond market down," said one high-yield trader. "But
although the junk-bond market is not up," there weren't major
losses either, he said.
   Among big losers: R.H. Macy &amp; Co.'s 14.5% subordinated
debentures, which shed 1 1/2 points to close at 61.
   Among big winners: Santa Fe Pacific Corp. bonds, which
climbed higher on news that the company plans to refinance
$780 million of its 16% senior subordinated debentures. The
refinancing involves exchanging $200 million of debentures
for Santa Fe common stock and redeeming the remainder.
   Santa Fe's 16% senior subordinated debentures ended the
day up 7/8 point at 110 5/8 point.
   Since the bonds are pay-in-kind bonds that pay interest in
the form of additional bonds instead of cash, their price
reflects accrued interest, which totals nearly seven points,
traders said.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Japanese government bonds snapped out of a three-day
losing streak to post modest gains yesterday. But traders
said the market's mood remains bearish.
   The rebound was triggered by the yen, which rose against
the U.S. dollar. The dollar ended at 147.50 yen in Tokyo,
down from 148.60 yen in Tokyo on Monday.
   Traders said there was active buying on the part of
dealers who were rushing to cover short-sale positions, which
contributed to the markets rebound. In a short sale,
professional traders sell borrowed securities and later seek
to make a profit by replacing what was borrowed with cheaper
securities.
   At the 3 p.m. JST close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the
price of Japan's benchmark No. 119 10-year bond was 85.30, up
0.27 point, to yield 7.57%. (When calculated using the
semiannual compound method, the yield on the No. 119 bond
ended at 7.06%, according to Salomon Brothers Inc.)
   In West Germany, the government sold 3 billion marks ($1.8
billion) of 10-year bonds via a federal bond consortium. The
bonds yield 8.50% -- about 0.16 percentage point more than
yields on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes. Traders said that
investors are waiting for today's U.S.-style auction, where a
second class of the 10-year bonds will be sold.
   In trading, new supply and a pullback in the U.S. bond
market left prices of West German bonds moderately lower.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Securities
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bonds ended little changed in uninspired
dealings.
   Issues were generally 1/8 point lower to 1/8 point.
Although there was little price action, traders remain upbeat
about the market because of tight supply and the anemic U.S.
economy.
   Among actively traded issues, the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.20% issues of 2018 finished 1/8 lower at 99
5/8, nudging the yield up to 7.21% from 7.20% late Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CD Yields Eased a Bit
   In Most Recent Week
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on certificates of deposit at major
banks and brokerage firms declined slightly in the week ended
Tuesday.
   The average yield on six-month small-denomination CDs sold
directly by banks slipped to 7.53% from 7.55%, according to
an 18-bank survey by Banxquote Money Markets, a New York
information service. The average for two-year consumer CDs
fell to 7.79% from 7.80%. However, the average yield for a
five-year consumer CD remained at 8.02%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Average yields on small-denomination CDs sold by leading
broker dealers were also down. The average yield on a
one-year CD fell the most, to 7.80% from 7.93%, while the
average for five-year CDs fell to 8.27% from 8.34%, according
to Banxquote.
   Average yields for large-denomination CDs, which typically
require deposits of $90,000 or more, declined. The average
yield on a one-year jumbo CDs eased to 7.68% from 7.79%,
while the average for two-year maturities slipped to 7.90%
from 7.97%.
   "Many big banks cut their jumbo rates, which may be a sign
that they expect rates to fall further," says Norberto Mehl,
chairman of Banxquote.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Bond Corp. Holdings Ltd.:
   Plan to Sell Brewing Assets
   To an Affiliate Is Backed
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   A.BON A.BEL
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Shareholders in Alan Bond's financially troubled Bond
Corp. Holdings Ltd. agreed to a proposal to sell the
company's Australian brewing assets to independently managed
affiliate Bell Resources Ltd.
   But a banking syndicate led by National Australia Bank
Ltd. that is owed 880 million Australian dollars (US$697
million) by Bond unit Bond Brewing Holdings Ltd. requires the
asset sale to be completed immediately.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And the A$1.85 billion sale of the company's brewing
assets needs further approval from a meeting of bondholders
in London Aug. 9 and from shareholders in Bell Resources Aug.
15 before it can proceed.
   Under a settlement reached in May, if the sale didn't
proceed by yesterday, Bond Brewing would have until Sept. 30
to repay the banks. If the sale went ahead, Bond Brewing
would have until July 1991 to repay the A$880 million.
   However, the banks were expected to agree to extend the
deadline to await the outcome of the meetings of bondholders
and Bell Resources.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Healthcare International Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HII
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   AUSTIN, Texas -- Healthcare International Inc. said it is
selling a hospital and office building in Tustin, Calif., to
Concept Health Group.
   Under terms, Concept, a Seattle hospital management firm,
will lease the facility until the sale is closed. The company
said the sale is expected to close in about nine months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Healthcare, a hospital operator, said it will use an
estimated $33 million in sales proceeds to reduce a $60
million mortgage held on the property by HealthVest, a real
estate investment trust.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   For Soviet Citizens,
   `Hard' Currencies
   Are Finally Legal
   ----
   By Elisabeth Rubinfien
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- Bowing to the inevitable, the government is
officially condoning the dollar-based economy that has
burgeoned in the Soviet Union in the past year.
   Starting today, Soviets will be allowed to spend and save
convertible currency without having to state the source of
their income. The government plans to open a network of
stores that will sell imported and high-quality domestic
goods to individuals and organizations for hard currency.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ruble isn't a convertible currency, but the Soviet
Union requires foreigners to pay hard currency for anything
from hotel rooms to utilities according to so-called
"hard-currency ruble" prices. Prices are stated in
hard-currency rubles on anything foreigners might buy, and
payment is made in hard currency.
   The hard-currency ruble doesn't exist in any tangible
form, but the government sets its value at about $1.65. (The
more realistic tourist exchange rate introduced last year is
six rubles to the dollar.)
   The new system marks the reversal of a decades-old policy
under which it has been illegal for Soviets to earn or spend
convertible currency in their own country. Now the government
wants to draw in what it estimates to be hundreds of millions
of dollars of hard currency, and wants it to be spent at
home. To do so, it is tacitly acknowledging that a
hard-currency economy operating in parallel to the ruble
economy has grown rapidly in the past year.
   "It's just the latest case in which the weakness of the
Soviet ruble has been demonstrated," said an article titled
"Ruble, Our Poor Relative," last week in Komsomolskaya
Pravda, the nation's largest circulation daily.
   It still isn't clear exactly how the new system will
operate. For one thing, although the government decree goes
into effect today, it doesn't address the fact that the law
making the holding of foreign currency illegal hasn't been
changed.
   Many economists and bankers oppose the move, fearing it
will undermine the already battered ruble. "I am afraid,"
said Viktor Gerashchenko, chairman of the U.S.S.R. State
Bank. "It is the wrong move in the long run because people
first of all should be motivated here to use the local
currency."
   For years, only people who had worked overseas, had
foreign relatives, or dared to deal in the black market had
access to hard currency. Those who acquired their dollars
legally could open bank accounts in the Soviet Union, but
could only withdraw money if they presented an exit visa as
proof that they needed the money for travel abroad.
   That system still exists, but control over it has eroded
rapidly in the past several years. The increase in Soviets
traveling overseas and the opening of joint ventures and
cooperative businesses aimed at foreigners in the Soviet
Union has opened the floodgates to hard currency. And as
shops are nearly bare of things to buy for rubles, more
people are demanding payment in dollars, marks or pounds.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Strikes Expected Today
   At 2 Canadian Steel Firms
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.DFS LABOR STE.A
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- About 16,000 workers were expected to begin
striking this morning at Canada's two largest steelmakers.
   The walkouts would follow the breakdown of contract talks
between the United Steelworkers of America and officials of
Stelco Inc. and Algoma Steel Corp., a subsidiary of Dofasco
Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The expected shutdowns come with Canada's steel industry
under pressure from a slowing domestic economy and increased
penetration of the Canadian market by U.S. steel producers.
   Leo Gerard, director of District 6 of the United
Steelworkers, said, "There's no way we can prevent a strike."
He said the union, representing about 10,000 workers at
Toronto-based Stelco, has rejected what the company has
called its final contract offer, which proposed wage
increases of about 2.5% in each year of a three-year pact.
The union is seeking a bigger wage increase and better
protection against inflation for workers and retirees.
   At Algoma, where the union represents about 6,000,
monetary issues haven't been broached, Mr. Gerard said. Talks
with the Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, company broke down over
language concerning the contracting-out of work.
   Both companies said an orderly shutdown of operations has
been under way for several days in anticipation of a strike.
Fred Telmer, president of Stelco's steel division, also said
inventory stockpiles have been transferred to customers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Allianz AG:
   West German Insurer Puts
   1989 Profit at $698 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   G.ALL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Allianz AG said in Munich that consolidated net group
profit totaled 1.16 billion marks ($698 million) in 1989.
   This is the first time the West German insurance company
has published consolidated group earnings, so year-earlier
figures weren't available.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Allianz said that, of the 1.16 billion marks, 460 million
marks of profit came from its foreign operations. Based on
available data, Allianz's 1989 domestic group net profit thus
climbed 32% to 700 million marks from 529 million a year
earlier.
   World-wide group premium income jumped 8.9% to 31.8
billion marks from 29.2 billion, Allianz said. It added that
it expects 1990 premium income to rise further, to about 36
billion marks.
   Allianz said it expects earnings to be "satisfactory" in
1990. Current earnings levels are running according to plans,
the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Rise in Choppy, Nervous Trading
   On Index-Linked Deals, Money Market Rate Gain
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks advanced in choppy, nervous trading, sparked
by index-linked buying and improved short-term money market
rates, traders said.
   In London, shares finished a stagnant session firmer but
at intraday minimums in a quiet midweek summer session.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index of 225 issues was up 592.71 points at
31035.66.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the Nikkei index
advanced another 262.67 points to 31298.33.
   Tuesday's volume on the first section was estimated at 380
million shares, up from 241.5 million shares Monday.
Advancers widely outnumbered decliners 778174, while 149
issues were unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section gained 27.27 points, or 1.23%, to 2252.56.
   The Second Section Index rose 73.33 points, or 1.69%, to
4422.33. Volume in the section was estimated at 29 million
shares, up from 12.2 million shares Monday.
   Traders said the market is seeking a clear indication that
the yield on the benchmark government bond will recover to a
stable level, perhaps around 7.2%, before posting a solid
rebound.
   On the other hand, as short-term money market rates show
signs of improvement, the stock market is likely to have
temporary rallies such as yesterday's, traders said.
   The overnight unsecured call money rate dropped one-eighth
of a percentage point this week to 7 1/2%.
   But despite some recovery on the benchmark 4.8% coupon
issue due 1999, its yield still traded at 7.57% to 7.60%
after reaching a seven-year high Monday.
   Traders said that investment trust funds were busy buying,
using money from positions liquidated over the previous seven
consecutive days of losses for the Nikkei Index.
   However, any indication of weakness would trigger an
immediate sell-off, one trader at a domestic securities firm
said. Institutions are much more sensitive about money
realized on the market's decline, he said.
   Traders said that institutions, weighed down by poor
holdings, are likely to sell and take profit from gains made
on rallies, as many of the traders missed the opportunity to
do so this past week.
   But as for buying, large-group activity drove up the
prices of a wide range of issues only on a short-term basis,
traders said, adding apprehension to the market.
   In other market news, trading in shares of Japan Air Lines
will be suspended until next Tuesday, a JAL spokesman said,
to allow for a par-value change. Currently denominated at 500
yen ($3.38) par value, the shares will be changed to 50 yen,
he said. JAL closed at 18,700 yen, up 300 yen.
   Also higher was Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone, whose
president said that he is considering various measures to
support the company's shares. The stock, which in the past
week hit a series of record lows, was 30,000 yen higher at
1,040,000 yen a share.
   Although Kyocera and Fanuc ended slightly lower, most
other high-priced, high-technology shares were higher. Sony
rose 40 to 8,650, while Pioneer added 90 to 6,250 yen.
   But most medium-capital shares, such as Matsushita
Electric Industrial, Hitachi and NEC, were softer.
   Domestic shares were mostly higher, with oil shares
leading the advances. Nippon Oil rose 40 to 1,380 yen.
   Construction, shipbuilding, financial, mining and real
estate shares gained.
   In London, share prices were higher from the outset on
optimistic performances in other stock markets, but those
gains were gradually eroded as the session wore on. Little
else captivated the market's attention, dealers said.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-Share Index gained
9.7 points to 2326.2, off the intraday high of 2342.2 and a
shade better than the midafternoon low of 2325.2.
   The Financial Times 30 Share Index rose 6.4 points to
1844.5. Volume was 301.5 million shares, down from 341.7
million Monday.
   Among the sparse corporate features, National Westminster
Bank fell 10 pence to 315 pence (18 cents to $5.82) after
announcing first-half pretax profit rose 22% to #431 million,
well below market expectations that ranged from #550 million
to #637 million.
   The other big clearing banks presented a mixed picture.
Barclays added 4 to 390, Midland fell 3 to 289, while Lloyds
rose 2 to 299. Midland is due to report earnings tomorrow
with Barclays the following day. Abbey National, a former
building society set to report interim results today, closed
unchanged at 214.
   STC dropped 11 to 256. Dealers said the shares slumped on
negative media comment after the company's announcement
Monday of a 32% decline in half-year pretax profit and the
sale of the ICL computer division.
   Most brewers were down on profit-taking after hefty gains
over the past two weeks. Dealers said the sector has been
climbing steadily, bolstered by expectations of sturdy
profits on the hot weather in Britain this summer.
   Bass slipped 7 to #11.11, Allied-Lyons shed 1 to 511,
while Whitbread fell 5 to 462. However, Grand Metropolitan
added 2 to 652, and Scottish &amp; Newcastle closed unchanged at
361.
   BPB, Europe's biggest plasterboard manufacturer, dropped 2
to 208 on news that French concern Lafarge Coppee is to form
a joint venture with Redland to make plasterboard. Redland
itself slipped 3 to 626.
   Elsewhere, shares closed higher in Frankfurt, Paris,
Amsterdam, Zurich, Stockholm, Madrid and Milan. Shares ended
lower in Brussels. South African gold stocks closed higher.
   Stocks ended higher in Sydney, Seoul, Taipei and
Wellington, mixed in Hong Kong and lower in Manila and
Singapore.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                 % This
                                 Jul 30  Jul 27    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ........................  329.1   327.3  +  1.3
   Britain .....................  688.7   692.8  -  4.5
   Canada ......................  390.4   390.4  -  9.7
   Japan ....................... 1226.8  1239.2  - 25.9
   France ......................  545.5   548.0  -  3.8
   Germany .....................  308.1   309.9  +  8.0
   Hong Kong ................... 2559.7  2591.4  + 22.1
   Switzerland .................  217.6   219.3  -  1.4
   Australia ...................  322.3   324.8  -  2.7
   World index .................  517.4   516.2  -  8.8
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southern Co. Unit
   To Sell Power Plant
   For $810 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GPE+ SO FPL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Georgia Power Co. said it agreed in principle
to sell one of its coal-fired power plants in a transaction
valued at about $810 million over four years.
   The company, a subsidiary of Southern Co., said it plans
to sell unit No. 4 of its Scherer electric generating plant
in Forysth, Ga., to Florida Power &amp; Light Co. and
Jacksonville Electric Authority. The sale will be made in
stages during the years 1991 through 1995. Florida Power &amp;
Light, a unit of FPL Group Inc. in North Palm Beach, Fla.,
would eventually own 76% of the 846-megawatt unit;
Jacksonville Electric Authority would own the remainder.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Georgia Power said the first part of the sale, totaling
about $300 million, is expected to be completed in the first
six months of 1991. The entire transaction is subject to
negotiation of final agreements and regulatory approvals.
   James L. Broadhead, chairman and chief executive officer
of Florida Power &amp; Light, said the move will fulfill a
significant portion of the utility's need for additional
generating capacity.
   Georgia Power said it hasn't determined how it will use
proceeds from the proposed sales, but added that one
alternative is a special redemption at par of outstanding
first mortgage bonds.
   Unit No. 4 of the Scherer facility was completed in 1989.
Units Nos. 1, 2 and 3 are owned jointly by Georgia Power,
Oglethorpe Power Corp., the Municipal Electric Authority of
Georgia, Gulf Power Co. and the city of Dalton, Ga.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Slower Growth Is Forecast
   For Industrialized Nations
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA FREST JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Slower growth looms for the world's major
industrialized countries, judging from the countries' leading
indexes, the Conference Board said.
   The board's latest International Economic Scorecard shows
the composite index of leading indicators for the 11 major
countries as flat, indicating slower growth for the rest of
the year. The board said that, although none of the world's
three major regions looks encouraging economically, some
individual countries show strength.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Europe, West Germany's index rose 5%; in the Pacific
region, South Korea's index rose 6%; in North America, the
U.S. index is growing at a 1% rate.
   The growth rate for the 10 major industrialized countries
outside the U.S. was 5% a year ago but has dropped steadily
to 2% the past four months.
   "An important implication of the general pattern is that
the outlook for continued growth in U.S. exports has become
less sanguine," said Edgar R. Fiedler, economic counselor for
the Conference Board.
   Among other indexes, Japan's showed a 2% growth rate, as
did France's. The indexes for Britain and Canada each showed
a 1% decline.
   The Conference Board is a nonprofit business-research
organization.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kansas City Royals Scout
   For a Potential Buyer
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<LP>
   The Kansas City Royals baseball team, wallowing in the
cellar of the American League West's standings, is on the
block.
   The team said that it has hired a financial adviser,
Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of New York, to pursue bids for the
team. Currently, the Royals are jointly owned by Ewing
Kauffman, the founder of Marion Laboratories Inc., a unit of
Dow Chemical Corp., and Avron B. Fogelman, a Memphis-based
developer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Fogelman was the subject of a page one story in The
Wall Street Journal last summer, when troubles paying his
bills led to layoffs at his Fogelman Properties Inc. and
speculation that his problems might force him to sell his
interest in the team -- or prompt creditors to seize it.
   Mr. Fogelman and Mr. Kauffman couldn't be reached for
comment.
   Kansas City is one of baseball's smallest markets, but,
with a payroll of about $24 million, according to Sports
Illustrated, the Royals rank as this year's highest-paid
baseball team. During the seven years that Mr. Fogelman and
Mr. Kauffman have owned the team, the Royals nabbed two
American League championships and a World Series.
   As part of the purchase of the team, a bidder must be
approved by Major League Baseball and assume a recently
signed 25-year stadium lease. Moreover, bidders must
negotiate a legal thicket involving, among other things, a
$34 million loan made to Mr. Fogelman by the Royals.
   Mr. Kauffman has the right to match a bid for the team,
the Royals said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Employers Casualty
   Adds to Reserves,
   Posts 2nd-Period Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ECRC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Employers Casualty Co., citing skyrocketing
claims in its general liability and workers' compensation
insurance lines, said it added about $90 million to reserves
in the second quarter, leading to a net loss of $85.7
million, or $8.49 a share.
   The insurer also said John F. Stephens, 74 years old,
retired as chairman and as a board member. He was succeeded
as chairman by Ernest L. Proud Jr., the company's 57-year-old
president and chief executive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the second quarter last year, the company reported a
net loss of $21.6 million, or $2.15 a share. In the latest
six months, the net loss widened to $94.8 million, or $9.40 a
share, including $100.6 million in reserves, from a net loss
of $16.1 million, or $1.60 a share in the year-ago period.
Adjusted book value at June 30, 1990, fell to $89.4 million,
or $9.18 a share, from $242.6 million, or $24.93 a share, a
year earlier, the company said.
   The company said the major portion of the reserve increase
is for liability losses from policies written many years ago.
"Ultimate loss payouts are being heavily impacted by
settlements and jury awards that are being made in the highly
litigious environment that currently exists in Texas," said
Mr. Proud.
   Employers said it plans to reduce premiums written to a
net annualized volume of $150 million, and is looking for
ways to cut expenses. In recent years, net premiums have
averaged above $400 million annually.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Average Interest Rate Falls
   At Citicorp Weekly Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate fell to 7.8192% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs, from 7.944% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $410 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 7.80% to 7.828%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp also said that the average rate fell to 7.728% at
its $50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from
7.8495% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $380 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 7.715% to 7.74%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity next Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   France's Framatome
   Says Holders' Dispute
   Hinders the Group
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.FRM F.SCN F.CGE EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Executives at French nuclear power plant builder
Framatome said the long-running wrangle between shareholders
is seriously hindering the group. But, they said, the dispute
should be resolved by early September.
   Company officials also threw a new element into the debate
by calling for Framatome's one-time rival Schneider S.A. to
take a 20% stake in the company to counter the unwelcome
presence of Compagnie Generale d'Electricite, or CGE.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Framatome has been the focus of a dispute between the
state and the private sector since CGE agreed last March to
buy construction group Dumez Group's 12% stake in the
company, thereby raising its own stake to 52%. State-owned
firms and Framatome's employees own the remaining 48% of the
group's capital.
   France depends heavily on nuclear power, and so CGE's move
drew opposition from President Francois Mitterrand and the
governing Socialist Party, neither of whom wanted to see such
a strategic industry pass out of the public sector. They
asked CGE to cut its stake to less than 50%.
   Marcel Chabrillac, Framatome's director for nuclear
engineering, sharply attacked CGE yesterday. "CGE has never
brought us anything. It has just taken its dividends. . . .
For some of its shareholders, Framatome is nothing more than
a cash cow," he said.
   Mr. Chabrillac also said that the uncertainty over the
group's future had held up its plans to develop new business,
especially in the U.S. and in China.
   A CGE official said later that the company was willing to
discuss cutting its stake, but he declined to give further
details.
   A Schneider official said an alliance between the
engineering group and Framatome was sound industrial logic
because the two companies already worked together on many
nuclear plant projects.
   But officials at Schneider and Framatome said several
tricky details remained to be resolved: Both Schneider and
CGE are reluctant to share a role in Framatome with the
other; a price has to be set for any Framatome shares that
CGE sells. And the government, a key player in the
negotiations, is unlikely to smile on Schneider's entry into
Framatome.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Passes Bill to Lift
   Federal Borrowing Limit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House passed and sent to the Senate a
bill that would raise the federal borrowing limit to $3.444
trillion from $3.122 trillion, sufficient to allow government
borrowing through September 1991.
   Congressional leaders expect the bill to bog down in the
Senate and a shorter-term extension to take its place. A
short-term alternative already has been moving in the House
even as the lawmakers voted yesterday. The House Ways and
Means Committee has approved a measure that would authorize
the Treasury to keep borrowing through Oct. 15. This version
may reach the House floor later this week. The Treasury says
it will default unless Congress lifts the debt ceiling by
Aug. 15.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The congressional recess is scheduled to begin Friday,
although Senate leaders say they may delay their departure in
order to continue working on a deficit-reduction package.
   Yesterday's debt bill, which was approved 221-205,
included a provision backed by Rep. Byron Dorgan (D., N.D.)
that would remove the Social Security Trust Fund from the
Gramm-Rudman calculation of the federal budget deficit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   One Bancorp Posts
   Loss for 2nd Quarter,
   Ends Stock Offer Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   TONE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PORTLAND, Maine -- One Bancorp reported a second-quarter
net loss of $29.8 million, scuttled a preferred stock
offering and said it hasn't had acceptable offers for
Connecticut and Massachusetts subsidiaries that it had agreed
to sell in a pact with regulators.
   The second-quarter results include a $15.5 million
provision for loan losses, loss of interest income on bad
commercial loans and an adjustment of $6.2 million to the
company's investment in Southstate Bank for Savings, which
has been offered for sale, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The $29.8 million loss, equal to $3.63 a share, compares
with a loss of $10.5 million, or $1.28 a share, in the 1989
second quarter.
   One Bancorp's nonperforming assets rose during the second
quarter by $7 million to $297 million, a sign that growth of
nonperforming assets is stabilizing, the company said.
First-quarter additions to nonperforming assets were $15
million, following an average increase of $40 million a
quarter for all of 1989.
   In partial accordance with the plan, the company said it
reduced its total assets to $2.2 billion at June 30, down
from $2.3 billion at year-end. The company must still sell
its Bank of Hartford and Southstate units, retire $36 million
of convertible debentures, restructure nonperforming assets
and sell foreclosed real estate.
   One Bancorp said it is committed to injecting additional
funds into its Maine Savings unit, but that the ability to
make these required capital infusions "is dependent entirely"
on the sale of the Connecticut and Massachusetts units. The
company said it hasn't been able to get the aggregate selling
price of $55 million for the two units and that appraisals
indicate that the fair market value of the units is now $42.2
million, less than called for in the plan.
   Vincent E. Furey, president and chief executive, said in a
statement that preservation of any value in the holding
company's securities will not be possible unless it can
substantially reduce its nonperforming assets and restore
Maine Savings capital to required levels in a time frame
acceptable to savings regulators.
   He said, however, that it is "highly unlikely, given
current market conditions, that the company will be able to
satisfy all of the requirements of the capital plan" signed
in January with regulators. The company's ability to continue
as a going concern "will therefore depend upon the level of
progress it can show in meeting the goals of the capital plan
and the willingness of its regulators to grant the holding
company additional time."
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, One
Bancorp closed at 44 cents a share, down 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Grossinger's Hotel Files
   For Chapter 7 Bankruptcy
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK (AP) -- Grossinger's Hotel and Country Club, the
Catskill Mountains retreat where Rocky Marciano trained and
Eddie Fisher launched his career, has filed for bankruptcy,
the hotel's trustee said.
   A voluntary Chapter 11 reorganization petition filed in
December by Grossinger's in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in White
Plains, N.Y., was converted to a Chapter 7 petition
yesterday, said the hotel's court-appointed trustee, Barbara
Balliber-Strauss.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ms. Balliber-Strauss declined to discuss details of the
action, but said the hotel and its contents will likely be
liquidated under the Chapter 7 petition.
   Grossinger's registered its first guests in 1914 and was
run by the Grossinger family for 71 years. Losing money, the
sprawling resort was sold in 1985 by the family to a group of
New York City investors for $9 million.
   The tudor-style resort in Sullivan County, about 120 miles
northwest of New York City, has been empty since 1986 when it
was closed for a multimillion dollar renovation and
expansion.
   The halls are lined with black-and-white photographs of
famous guests, fighters who trained there and entertainers
who performed there, including Jack Dempsey and Lucille Ball.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Matsushita Electric
   Enters Joint Venture
   With Whirlpool Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MC WHR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BENTON HARBOR, Mich. -- Whirlpool Corp. and Japan's
Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. said they formally
established a joint venture that will make vacuum cleaners in
the U.S. for domestic and export markets.
   To form the venture, the Osaka, Japan, concern purchased a
majority position in what was formerly Whirlpool's Danville,
Ky., division. Terms of the transaction, including
Matsushita's specific stake, weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Whirlpool announced in February that it was seeking a
buyer for the division, which makes vacuum cleaners primarily
for resale by Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. under the Kenmore brand
name.
   But in June, Whirlpool reached a tentative agreement with
Matsushita to form the venture, which is expected to permit
the Japanese concern to expand its manufacturing and
marketing base in North America.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Stalinism-Steeped Albania
   Allows Foreign Investment
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   VIENNA -- Communist Albania announced it will permit
foreign investment and joint ventures. It also decreed
limited freedom to stage public demonstrations.
   The new economic measures decreed by the Tirana leadership
appeared designed to alleviate economic backwardness, provide
technical know-how, improve living conditions and circumvent
a ban on foreign credits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The decrees were approved by the presidium of the People's
Assembly and reported by the state news agency ATA only weeks
after some 5,000 Albanians, holed up in foreign embassies,
were allowed to emigrate from Albania, the poorest country in
Europe and a lone stronghold of Stalinism.
   "Foreign embassies, firms or individuals or Albanians
residing abroad can make investments or carry out related
economic activities," said a decree issued on "the protection
of foreign investments in the People's Socialist Republic of
Albania."
   While the official announcement didn't specifically
mention joint ventures, it said that in Albania "enterprises
with participation of foreign capital can carry out their
economic activity in various sectors of the economy."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New-Home Sales Rose 8%
   In June After May Increase
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The government reported that sales of newly
built single-family houses rose 8% in June, following a 2.3%
increase in May.
   Sales in June ran at an annual rate of 581,000 units,
according to the report by the departments of Commerce and
Housing and Urban Development. The figures are adjusted for
seasonal changes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales fell 5.7% in April, the report said. Analysts
suggested that the decline in mortgage rates over the past
few months may have led to a rebound.
   Many economists regard the home sales figures as
unreliable, however, because they are often heavily revised
in subsequent months. The government itself said in the
report that the margin of error is so great -- plus or minus
12 percentage points -- that the 8% increase reported for
June may in fact turn out to have been a decline.
   The departments put the average price of newly built homes
at $152,900 in June, up from $149,700 in May. They said the
median price was $129,900, up from $127,900 in May.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Securities Firms
   Told to Pay Penalty Taxes
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.YMS J.NKR J.NJS TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Some top Japanese securities companies said they
received instructions from the Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau
to pay penalty taxes for not reporting what the bureau calls
compensation paid to major clients for losses incurred from
the "Black Monday," global, stock market plunge.
   "Big Four" firms Yamaichi Securities Co. Ltd., Nippon
Kangyo Kakumaru Securities Co. Ltd. and New Japan Securities
Co. Ltd. were among 14 securities companies that were
reportedly ordered to pay a total of 7.5 billion yen ($50.7
million) in penalty taxes for a total of 16.5 billion yen
that was viewed as compensation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When major institutional and individual clients suffered
huge losses in the stock market crash, the securities
companies allegedly compensated their clients by selling
convertible bonds, warrants and government bonds at
discounted prices and later buying them back at higher
prices.
   Each company had supposedly reported costs of such
transactions as losses caused by ordinary equity
transactions. But the tax agency identified the reported
deals as compensation, which should have been reported as
entertainment expenses or donations, subject to taxation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   UAL'S STOCK PLUNGED $16.875 a share to $140 after two more
banks, Citicorp and Chase Manhattan, indicated they had
withdrawn for now from efforts to finance a $4.38 billion
buy-out of the United Air parent. The moves, following
Chemical Bank's withdrawal, leave the bid in doubt nine days
before a financing deadline.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chrysler's profit skidded 47% in the second quarter.
Aggressive costcutting and surging results from financial
services prevented a loss.
   ---
   The dollar fell more than 1% against the yen and the mark,
stalling a bond rally and contributing to a mild retreat in
blue-chip stocks.
   ---
   Ford agreed to sell its farm-equipment unit to a new joint
venture 80%-owned by Fiat. The deal virtually completes
Ford's exit from all businesses except autos and finance.
   ---
   The FDIC's fund to cover bank failures may suffer a
bigger-than-expected loss this year, perhaps totaling $2
billion, the agency's head said.
   ---
   Tougher sentences for S&amp;L crime and more funding to
prosecute such violations were passed by the House.
                                                                                                       

   An ex-U.S. official said he regretted the sale of an
ailing thrift to a once-indicted insurance executive.
   ---
   USX's second-quarter profit fell 15% as oil gains failed
to offset lower steel earnings and natural-gas losses.
   ---
   Interco's lenders agreed in general to restructure $1.9
billion in debt, averting for now a bankruptcy-law filing by
the furniture and shoe concern.
   ---
   Xerox posted a 27% decline in second-quarter profit
despite encouraging results in its major business areas.
   ---
   Walt Disney Co. unveiled plans for a $2.3 billion
waterfront theme park and resort in Long Beach, Calif.
   ---
   Schering-Plough should be allowed to market interferon to
treat a form of hepatitis, an FDA panel urged.
   ---
   A commodities firm linked to Chicago Board of Trade
Chairman Karsten Mahlmann was charged by the U.S. with
misusing investor funds.
   ---
   Dutch retail giant KBB bought toy-store chain F.A.O.
Schwarz from investment banker Peter Morse for a sum thought
to be about $40 million.
   ---
   Curbs on sales pitches delivered by fax machines and
automatic phone dialers passed the House, but Bush advisers
will recommend a veto.
   ---
   Pic 'N' Save unveiled plans to cut costs and resume a
stock buy-back and disclosed the resignation of chief
executive Lewis Merrifield. The retailer's moves to boost its
share price may satisfy a potential hostile bidder.
   ---
   Bush and senior Democrats are giving up any hope of
reaching a budget accord before Labor Day.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 173,810,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2905.20, off 12.13; transportation 1093.43, off 31.57;
utilities 210.01, up 2.96.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3487.29, off
0.16.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.90, up 0.93; spot
index 132.25, up 0.46.
   Dollar: 145.80 yen, off 2.03; 1.5869 marks, off 0.0172.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   A U.S. PANEL cleared the first human tests of gene therapy
to fight disease.
   The National Institutes of Health committee approved the
use of gene therapy to treat a fatal form of skin cancer and
an inherited immune-system disorder that affects children.
The panel's chairman said that the approvals move gene
therapy "from abstract science to research and patient care."
Scientists have traced some inherited disorders, including
hemophilia and cystic fibrosis, to malfunctions by genes,
which instruct cells to perform functions. As a result,
researchers are focusing on therapies to replace missing
genes or to enhance the genes' performance as a possible
treatment for disease.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But gene therapy has attracted criticism from groups who
worry that it could lead to tinkering with genetic structures
to improve the human race.
   ---
   AN OIL SPILL SPREAD off Texas, disrupting shipping and
threatening wildlife.
   The spill from a collision between a tanker and two barges
in Galveston Bay blocked most vessels for the third day from
the Houston Ship Channel, though some ships went through last
night. The Coast Guard said only a few dead birds and fish
were reported, but that more were expected as the oil moved
ashore. Initially, Coast Guard officials said only about
50,000 gallons of oil spilled, but they later raised that to
500,000 gallons.
   Local maritime shipping experts estimated that the
shipping channel's closing is costing $1 million to $1.5
million a day to owners of idled ships.
   ---
   A defense spending bill was approved by the House Armed
Services panel that guts the Pentagon's top-priority
strategic programs, shelves production of other weapons and
cuts three times as many troops as Bush proposed. In clearing
the $283 billion bill, the panel cut $24 billion from Bush's
spending blueprint.
   ---
   Scientists said they are on the trail of a gene that
raises the risk of developing lung cancer, especially for
smokers. Two research reports are the firmest proof yet that
a susceptibility to lung cancer can be passed from generation
to generation, and may explain why lung cancer is relatively
common in some families.
   ---
   Moslem rebels freed Trinidad's Prime Minister Robinson,
but other hostages seized during Friday's coup attempt were
still being held, according to Trinidad's attorney general.
He refused to say what conditions led to Robinson's release.
According to other officials, the premier had been shot in
both legs and beaten during his captivity.
   ---
   Federal investigators spread blame for the March 1989
Exxon Valdez oil spill off Alaska, criticizing the captain,
his third mate, the Coast Guard and state and local
authorities, as well as Exxon Shipping. The National
Transportation Safety Board's findings ended a 16-month probe
concerning the nation's worst spill.
   ---
   Liberian government troops staged a counterattack on
rebels fighting to oust Doe and recaptured parts of Monrovia.
Meanwhile, the president vowed to "fight until the last
soldiers in the Liberian army die." The offensive came a day
after loyalist troops were accused of killing hundreds of
civilian refugees in a Lutheran church.
   ---
   A Senate subcommittee rejected fiscal 1991 funding sought
by the Bush administration to establish a National Drug
Intelligence Center under the Justice Department and drug
czar Bennett. Instead, the Appropriations panel chose to
apply the requested $46 million to expand an existing
anti-drug program.
   ---
   The Irish Republican Army said in a statement that it
killed British lawmaker Ian Gow because of his friendship
with Prime Minister Thatcher and his role in developing
Britain's policy concerning Northern Ireland. Gow, 53, died
Monday when a bomb exploded under his automobile.
   ---
   Kuwaiti and Iraqi negotiators began talks in Saudi Arabia
on their oil and border dispute, while Persian Gulf-based
diplomats said Iraq had massed 100,000 troops on Kuwait's
border. The diplomats said the Iraqi force, triple the number
earlier reported, included about 300 Soviet-made tanks.
   ---
   A federal jury in Los Angeles found a Mexican businessman
guilty of racketeering, kidnapping and conspiracy in the 1985
death of U.S. drug agent Enrique Camarena. Ruben Zuno Arce, a
brother-in-law of a former president of Mexico, was the third
defendant found guilty in the trial.
   ---
   Soviet citizens will be allowed, as of today, to spend and
save convertible currency without stating the source of the
income. The government also plans to open stores selling
certain imported and domestic goods for hard currency.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Daimler Alters Its Strategy
   In Seeking Enasa Takeover
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP E.ENA G.DAI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- Daimler-Benz AG said it is now prepared to
negotiate the takeover of Spain's state-owned truck maker,
Empresa Nacional de Autocamiones S.A., either alone or in
partnership with the government.
   Daimler, which is West Germany's largest industrial group
and one of the world's largest producers of cars and trucks,
said it has decided to seek an Enasa takeover on its own
rather than in partnership with other European truck makers
because it hasn't been able to find a suitable partner.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Originally, Daimler had sought to take a 20% stake in
Enasa, with the West German engineering and truck group MAN
AG acquiring 60%. The plan called for the two companies to
manage Enasa jointly. But the arrangement was rejected two
weeks ago by the West German Federal Cartel Office on
antitrust grounds. MAN then dropped out of the running for
Enasa.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Will Sell 44-Day Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise new cash
Thursday by selling about $4 billion in 44-day
cash-management bills.
   The bills will be dated Aug. 7 and will mature Sept. 20.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum denominations
of $1,000,000, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Thursday at
Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Edisto's Note Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EDS
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Edisto Resources Corp. said it agreed to
purchase $10 million face amount of 13 1/4% convertible
secured notes issued by Hall-Houston Offshore for $17 million
in cash, plus accrued interest, from certain Prudential-Bache
Energy Growth Fund Partnerships.
   Edisto, an oil and gas exploration and production company,
said the notes are convertible into a general partner
interest representing 10.4% of Hall-Houston Offshore, a joint
venture formed in 1988 by Edisto and Hall-Houston Oil Co., a
closely held company, to develop and explore offshore Gulf of
Mexico reserves.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Mexican Concerns, Shunned by Bankers,
   Turn to Public Offerings for Financing
   ----
   By Matt Moffett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MEXICO CITY -- A conglomerate that racked up double-digit
annual sales growth through most of the 1980s should have
international lenders lining up at its door, right? Not if
that company's home office is in Mexico, like that of Grupo
Carso S.A.
   When fast-growing Carso recently began looking for
expansion loans, it discovered that foreign bankers were
still licking their wounds from the Latin lending bloodbath
of the early 1980s. Borrowing in Mexico was hardly more
attractive for Carso. Domestic interest rates, while falling
rapidly, are still well above what the Mexican company's U.S.
competitors pay.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So in June, Carso made a public offering of $108 million,
the largest in the Mexican stock market, known as the Bolsa
de Valores, since the debt crisis exploded in 1982. It is
only one of a growing number of Mexican firms turning to the
booming stock market and elsewhere for financing.
   Mexico companies are even returning in force to the
Eurobond market, from which they had been largely excluded
for almost a decade. All of the half-dozen or so Mexican
issues announced in the past several months have been small,
creatively designed and attractively priced.
   Cementos Mexicanos S.A., one of the largest cement makers
on the continent, needed money to help finance a recent
acquisition in the U.S. So in June, an affiliate company
issued $100 million in Eurobonds that are convertible to
American depositary receipts in a Cemex unit. Cemex had to
offer a generous 13.5% coupon, but the issue was placed
within two weeks.
   Even some state-owned companies are going to the debt
market, provided they can offer investors the allure of
dollar income. In March, Petroleos Mexicanos S.A., the state
oil monopoly, placed a Eurobond issue of 100 million German
marks. Although the oil giant had to offer an attractive
11.25% coupon to gain acceptance for the bonds, the issue was
a breakthrough: the first Eurobond issue by Pemex since the
oil price collapse of 1982.
   Corporate Mexico's return to debt and equity markets has
been driven both by signs of resurgence in the Mexican
economy and by the government's bold new trade policy. In
1989, Mexico enjoyed its most robust economic growth in
years, 2.9%, double the predicted level.
   Growth this year is shaping up slower, about 2%, but
President Carlos Salinas de Gortari has provided an
additional spur to private sector investment. He has said
Mexico would seek a free-trade agreement with the U.S. "When
trade borders are stripped away, only companies large enough
to achieve economies of scale will survive," says Fernando G.
Chico Pardo, a top Carso executive.
   But the high cost of capital for Mexican companies has put
them at a disadvantage as they gird for the showdown with
their northern competitors. As President Salinas's reforms
have picked up steam, interest rates in Mexico have dropped
to about 30%, the lowest since 1982; but they are still
significantly higher than rates U.S. companies pay. Bankers
abroad aren't lining up to sink money into Mexico either, as
evidenced by the recent Bush administration debt-relief
initiative that nearly foundered when bankers hesitated to
ante up new loans.
   All of that has capital-hungry Mexican firms looking
toward the Bolsa for the first time in a long time. Large
public offerings have been infrequent in Mexico. The market
is still small, being capitalized at about $35 billion, and
there is a tradition of keeping shares in a few hands. But
the market's rocketlike surge in the past six quarters has
made public offerings an attractive proposition. "If ever
there was a time to think about an offering, it's right now,"
says Carlos Muriel, international director of Inverlat S.A.,
a big brokerage house.
   The Bolsa's price-earnings ratio had grown to 10.5 by the
end of the second quarter, up from four at the time President
Salinas took office. The Bolsa's growth has been helped by
Mexico's opening to foreign investment that has funneled $600
million into the market since November.
   Carso is just the kind of company that can use the Bolsa
boom to launch its coming-out party. The group was quietly
consolidated during the past decade by Carlos Slim, a
reclusive investor. In many ways Carso retains the low-rent
look of a startup company. The door to Mr. Slim's office has
to be opened gingerly, lest it upset a water cooler parked
just outside. There are only 20 executives in the corporate
staff.
   But appearances are deceiving. The companies under Carso's
umbrella had consolidated revenue last year of more than $1.5
billion, higher than any Mexican private company except the
giant conglomerate Grupo Alfa S.A.
   The group includes everything from Empresas Frisco, a
mining company, to Cigatam, a cigarette producing joint
venture with Philip Morris Products Inc., to Sanborn
Hermanos, a family restaurant chain. Some of the companies
previously were traded on the Bolsa individually, but were
consolidated under the holding company as part of the public
offering. An investment house and insurance firm controlled
by Mr. Slim were spun off from the group at the same time.
The Carso offering, which represents about 13% of the
conglomerate's equity, was snapped up by investors in about
two weeks.
   About the same time Carso went to market, Maseca S.A., a
producer of corn products, and Grupo Gamesa S.A., a maker of
cookies, crackers and other foods, were unveiling offerings
of $39 million and $11 million, respectively.
   Three or four more Mexican companies are nearly ready to
go to market, according to Jose Mantecon, a vice chairman of
the National Stock Commission. "I think this is the direction
more and more companies will be going," says Mr. Mantecon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   A Reunified Korea?
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   It is tempting to read great significance into next
month's proposed meeting between the prime ministers of North
and South Korea, given the rarity of high-level contacts
between the two Koreas in the violent 45 years of their
separate existence. But while hope is a natural response, we
have learned to be skeptical that such events, in themselves,
offer promise of Korean reunification.
   Kim Il Sung probably is genuinely nervous about his
godfathers in Moscow. Mikhail Gorbachev's meeting with South
Korean President Roh Tae Woo in California earlier this year
suggested that the Soviets are taking up with Kim's worst
rival. Those fears have been fanned by Soviet-South Korean
talks to normalize relations and trade overtures to Seoul
from Beijing as well.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Kim knows how to play symbolic games. His agreement to
the prime minister get-together probably is another of his
well-practiced exercises in dissemblance.
   Something more substantive, a proposed temporary breach of
the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) to allow some direct contact
between North and South Koreans, apparently won't happen.
Both governments agreed in principle to a joint rally in the
Panmunjom truce village August 15 to celebrate Liberation
Day, which commemorates Korea's 1945 liberation from Japan.
But in a last-minute spate of demands, gripes and
accusations, North Korea seems to have scuttled that plan.
   Our own guess is that for any progress toward
reunification on terms acceptable to the civilized world, the
North's communist regime must go. So far that doesn't seem to
be on Pyongyang's agenda.
   South Korea, however, is growing bolder. President Roh not
only approved the prime ministers' meeting and the August 15
rally, but suggested that all Koreans be allowed to travel
freely throughout the peninsula for five days next month. He
even agreed to allow North Korean officials and South Korean
dissidents to meet in Seoul to discuss arrangements for the
rally.
   Pyongyang's response was less than gracious. State radio
broadcasts called the offer of travel "fraudulent
propaganda." North Korean diplomats imposed absurd
conditions. To Seoul's suggestion that the Liberation Day
rally be open to everyone, Pyongyang replied that only South
Korea's radical students and dissidents, many of them
sympathetic to the North, would be welcome. To allow anyone
else, North Korea said, would be "an act of challenge we
cannot permit." When the time came late last week for five
North Korean officials to go to Seoul to meet the dissidents
and fix the details of the Liberation Day rally, they found
an excuse not to go.
   The contrast between the two Koreas grows more profound
every day. Since 1985 -- the last time a few North Koreans
were allowed in -- South Korea has held free presidential and
legislative elections, hosted the Olympics, and become a
regional economic power. North Korea, under Great Leader Kim
Il Sung, meanwhile has been rounding out its long record of
poverty and international isolation.
   Mr. Roh's proposals for breaching the DMZ signify South
Korea's growing self-confidence. It is unlikely, for
instance, that South Korea's increasingly sophisticated
citizens are going to be overwhelmed by a visit to
Pyongyang's Department Store Number 1 or the Victorious
Fatherland Liberation Museum.
   The South is not yet a model democracy. The entire
opposition in Seoul's National Assembly walked out after the
ruling Democratic Liberal Party rudely rushed through 25
bills in less than a minute during the closing session last
week. But every step toward political and economic maturity
in South Korea represents another blow to Pyongyang. The
North can only respond to the South's real progress with
gestures, and over time, symbols are no match for substance.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Urcarco Is Accused
   In Suits of Breaches
   Of Securities Laws
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CARS
</CO>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- Urcarco Inc. said two lawsuits had
been filed in federal courts in Dallas and Fort Worth
accusing the high-flying operator of used car lots of
violating securities laws.
   Also named as defendants were certain Urcarco executives,
including Chairman Clifton Morris, and, in one case, the
company's independent auditors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Urcarco said one suit accuses the company of concealing a
"serious liquidity crisis" from the public. The company said
that the other suit asserts that its financial statements
weren't prepared in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles. The suits also challenge the company's
revenue and income recognition policies and the adequacy of
its allowance for loan losses. Each suit seeks class action
status, Urcarco said.
   Describing the allegations of a liquidity crisis as
"groundless, frivolous and in bad faith," the company said it
currently has about $65 million in cash on hand and an
available bank line of credit of $45 million. The company
also said it has repeatedly reviewed its financial statements
and accounting policies with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and believes they are consistent with generally
accepted accounting principles.
   "The company will vigorously defend these suits," the
company said.
   Operating 17 car lots in Texas, Urcarco sells used cars to
people with credit problems, charging high interest rates on
the resulting loans. Since going public last November, the
company has frequently reported dramatic increases in
earnings and seen its stock triple in value, climbing to a
high of $25.50 last April. But the stock has tumbled since
then.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Urcarco
closed down 50 cents at $10.875.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Ashton-Tate Releases
   A Revamped Version
   Of Database Package
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   TATE DEC
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORRANCE, Calif. -- Ashton-Tate Corp. began shipping a new
version of its flagship dBASE IV software package, which
industry observers said should enable the software maker to
reverse a yearlong decline in its revenue and regain lost
share in the database market.
   "This shores things up," said Jeffrey Tartar, editor of
Softletter, an industry newsletter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, the release of the new dBASE IV, the most widely
used database application for personal computers, isn't
likely to restore Ashton-Tate to the prominence it enjoyed
during the mid-1980s. "For real excitement, Ashton-Tate must
get out quality products consistently," said Adam Green, a
database consultant in Lexington, Mass. Rejuvenation "isn't a
matter of selling a single product."
   Shortcomings with the initial version of dBASE IV,
introduced nearly two years ago, forced Ashton-Tate to
promise delivery of a revamped version. But the revisions
proved so difficult to make that last year the company
stopped predicting when it would finish the job. Even now the
company will only say the product has been "thoroughly
tested." Users who have tested it say it is reliable.
   "Unlike {the first} dBASE IV, this one is going to work as
advertised," said Michael Masterson, president of the Silicon
Valley dBASE Users Group. The program is a programmable
application that stores and retrieves data according to the
user's requirements.
   Ashton-Tate plans to give a free copy of the new version
to every registered owner of dBASE IV, which lists for $795.
The company yesterday also released a version of dBASE to run
on minicomputers made by Digital Equipment Corp., which plans
to offer the product with its machines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Prices of Hog and Pork-Belly Contracts Jump
   As U.S. Meatpackers Enter Slowest Weeks of Year
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Prices of hog and pork-belly futures contracts
jumped as the nation's meatpackers entered their slowest
weeks of the year.
   The supply of mature hogs is usually thinnest in the
summer because of the timing of their reproductive cycles.
That forces meatpackers to bid up prices to find enough hogs
to keep their plants operating.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Reports that cash prices for live hogs were jumping in the
Midwest sent prices of futures contracts higher at the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange. In trading yesterday, the hog
contract for August delivery rose 0.72 cents to settle at
61.22 cents a pound.
   According to some analysts, U.S. slaughterhouses are
operating at about two-thirds of capacity. Federally
inspected slaughterhouses, which have the capacity to kill
roughly 365,000 hogs a day, killed only 241,000 Monday.
   The seasonal downturn is being exacerbated this summer by
an unusually tight supply of hogs. The number of hogs
slaughtered last week fell 10% below the comparable 1989
week, according to Jerry Abbenhaus, an analyst at A.G.
Edwards &amp; Sons, St. Louis.
   After the close of trading, signs emerged that the
slaughter increased yesterday. However, the supply of
fattened hogs probably won't begin to increase significantly
until September. The supply usually peaks in April and
October.
   Hog prices have been swinging wildly this year. After
soaring to record levels this spring, hog prices gyrated this
summer amid signs that consumers were cutting back purchases
of the high-priced meat.
   The price of pork bellies, which are used to make bacon,
has been particularly volatile this summer. After weakening
in July, contracts for delivery through mid-1991 jumped
yesterday by their daily limit of two cents a pound.
   Despite concerns about weakening demand for bacon, prices
increased amid signs that the supply of pork bellies is
dwindling. According to a weekly survey, 7.1 million pounds
of pork bellies were withdrawn from refrigerated warehouses
outside Chicago last week.
   The supply of frozen pork bellies, which are refrigerated
for use primarily during the summer, fell to 48.7 million
pounds in warehouses outside Chicago, compared with 78.2
million pounds a year earlier. Another survey tracks frozen
pork-belly supplies in Chicago.
   So far, hog traders have shrugged off reports that random
testing by Japan detected sulfamethazine residues in a June
shipment of U.S. pork. A similar discovery in 1988 depressed
prices by sparking speculation that Japan would restrict U.S.
pork imports.
   Japan, which is the largest buyer of U.S. pork, has tough
rules about the presence of sulfamethazine residue in meat.
Sulfamethazine, which is widely used to medicate hogs, can
cause an allergic reaction in some people and has been linked
to thyroid tumors in some laboratory rats.
   So far, the Japanese government has ordered that pork
shipments from a handful of U.S. plants be checked and
cleared for the residue before being sold in Japan.
   Before the discovery, exports of U.S. pork loins to Japan
were running about 25% above 1989 levels, according to the
National Pork Producers Council, which represents hog
farmers. So far, there isn't any sign that U.S. exports are
slipping. Among other things, the weakening of the dollar has
helped fuel U.S. pork shipments.
   After the 1988 scare, the hog-farmer group launched a
campaign to teach its members how to use the drug without
tainting livestock.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Platinum prices were strong, while those
of gold rose moderately and silver edged lower.
October-delivery platinum ended with a gain of $10.80 an
ounce at $490.90 after trading as high as $492.50. August
gold was up $2.20 an ounce at $370.00. September silver was
off 1.8 cents an ounce at $4.8220. The lower dollar, tensions
in the Middle East and, most importantly, buying of platinum
by Japanese investors caused the platinum price to surge,
according to Nina Lipton, research manager of the Platinum
Guild International, an industry group. "Platinum has become
an excellent hedge in view of prospects of higher oil prices
that can fuel inflation," she said. "Also, the weakness of
the dollar made platinum cheaper in yen terms. This attracted
Japanese buying of platinum, which triggered heavy
short-covering" by traders who had sold contracts in
anticipation that prices would fall, Ms. Lipton said. The
platinum surge, as well as the lower dollar, also helped
gold, an analyst said. Silver lagged because, in contrast to
the platinum or gold situation, there's no demand for
bullion, she said.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Oil prices mostly rose in light to moderate
activity, with many traders remaining on the sidelines in the
wake of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
meeting. The market moved on a variety of news during the
day, most of it bullish. Delegations from Kuwait and Iraq
held their first round of face-to-face talks in Saudi Arabia
over their bitter disputes that threatened to undo last
week's meeting. Iraq has accused Kuwait of producing beyond
its OPEC quota in a deliberate attempt to undermine the Iraqi
economy. Iraq also accused Kuwait of border violations and of
stealing oil from a field that straddles their border.
Estimates circulated that Iraqi troops along the Kuwaiti
border now number around 100,000, up from earlier estimates
of 30,000. Also, the U.S. Coast Guard estimated that 500,000
gallons of oil have leaked into Galveston Bay in Texas, 10
times its original estimate of last weekend's spill. On the
bearish side, statistics released by the American Petroleum
Institute after trading ended yesterday showed an unexpected
increase in crude oil inventories of 2.9 million barrels last
week.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices were strong, partly because of
reports that frost damaged the Brazilian coffee crop but
mostly on technically oriented demand. The September contract
settled with a gain of 3.35 cents a pound at 93.80 cents. The
current 1990-91 Brazilian coffee crop, whose harvest began in
May, isn't in any danger from cold weather or frost. The
coffee beans are too mature and have been mostly collected.
The first buds that will eventually bear the 1991-92 crop,
however, are now on the trees, and it is this crop that is
vulnerable to cold weather. Last weekend, temperatures in the
southernmost growing areas of Brazil dropped as low as 34
degrees Fahrenheit. It is believed that the cold caused some
leaf burn and possibly damaged some of the first buds of the
next crop. However, according to Peter Leavitt, vice
president of Weather Services Corp., Bedford, Mass., "Coffee
trees lose blossoms all the time. Subsequent blooms can make
up for any early losses." Milder weather is expected to
continue, Mr. Leavitt said.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices rose. The September contract gained
1.05 cents a pound to $1.2460. Japanese buying of copper
firmed prices in London and subsequently in New York,
analysts said. The London Metal Exchange yesterday reported a
9,300-ton increase in its copper warehouse stocks to 94,275
tons, well above the 7,000-ton increase that had been
expected. But any price-weakening impact appeared to be
offset by a decline in New York's Commodity Exchange
inventories of 751 tons to 11,522 tons. It was the second
consecutive daily drop in the New York exchange's warehouse
stocks. Continuing low global stocks of copper, strong
European demand in addition to that from Japan and a drop of
2% in primary world mine production in the first five months
of this year are all contributing to the current strong price
trend for the metal, according to Fred Demler, first vice
president of commercial futures at PaineWebber.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Borden Inc. Reports
   7.7% Profit Increase
   For Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BN
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Borden Inc. said second-quarter profit rose
7.7%, with strong gains in its pasta and snack businesses
offsetting sharply lower earnings from its dairy operations.
   For the quarter, Borden reported net income of $90.4
million, or 61 cents a share, up from $83.9 million, or 57
cents a share, during the year-earlier period. Sales inched
up to $1.9 billion from $1.88 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Operating income at Borden's snack and international
consumer products division rose 18%, buoyed by strong results
from the company's U.S. snack business. Borden's Wise brand
of potato chips and popcorn and its Moore's snack unit
reported significant gains, helped by lower potato prices and
manufacturing costs.
   The grocery and specialty products division posted a 17%
gain in operating earnings, driven by strong sales of its
Prince and Creamette brands of pasta in the U.S. and Catelli
pasta in Canada. Sales of its Elmer's and Krazy Glue
adhesives were also up.
   The company also benefited from an 8% decline in its tax
rate during the quarter. A company spokesman attributed the
drop to reduced state and local taxes and to tax benefits
related to dairy restructuring.
   Borden's dairy division, however, had a 35% decline in
operating income as continued weakness in markets for
raw-milk prices cut into earnings.
   "During the quarter, we saw the beginning of a turnaround
in domestic-snack earnings and an improvement in dairy
margins over the first quarter," said R.J. Ventres, Borden's
chairman and chief executive officer. "However, all of our
consumer products markets are becoming increasingly
competitive, and we anticipate sharply higher raw milk costs
this fall."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Borden closed unchanged at $35.625.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Freeport-McMoran
   To Acquire All Shares
   Of Its Oil-Gas Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FTX FMP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW ORLEANS -- Freeport-McMoRan Inc. said it will acquire
all the shares of Freeport-McMoRan Oil &amp; Gas Co. that it
doesn't already own, citing lackluster investor interest in
the unit.
   In March, the diversified energy concern converted an oil
and gas limited partnership into Freeport-McMoRan Oil &amp; Gas,
a corporation, in hopes of broadening the investment appeal
of the operation and avoiding what it called "onerous" tax
reporting requirements for partnerships.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yesterday, Freeport-McMoRan said its "expectation that
Freeport-McMoRan Oil &amp; Gas would be a more attractive
investment vehicle" than its predecessor "has not been
realized in the marketplace." It said it will issue between
0.270 and 0.329 share of its common stock for each share of
the oil and gas company not already held, according to a
formula it has devised. The parent owns 81.5% of the unit.
   A Freeport-McMoRan spokesman said the exact number of
additional shares to be issued hasn't been determined,
although it is expected to be between 6.2 million and seven
million. Freeport-McMoRan had about 54 million shares
outstanding at June 30, and Freeport-McMoRan Oil &amp; Gas about
23 million.
   Freeport-McMoRan stock closed yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading at 35.125 a share, down 25 cents.
Freeport-McMoRan Oil &amp; Gas stock, also traded on the New York
exchange, soared two dollars a share to ten dollars a share.
   Separately, Freeport-McMoRan said it would extend payment
of a special 25-cents-per-share cash dividend for the next
four quarters, in addition to its regular quarterly dividend.
The company has been paying the special dividend since
January 1989. Its regular dividend is 37.5 cents a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900801-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900801-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   FBH HCCC USHC AAL UCU CBT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Hall Frank B          $ .14    ...     ($ .24) (3)    ...
  HealthCare Compare      .20    ...        .17  (4)   17.65
  U.S. Healthcare         .29    ...        .25  (8)   16.00
  Alex &amp; Alex Svc         .43    ...        .38  (8)   13.16
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  UtiliCorp United      $ .12    ...      $ .17  (3)   29.41
  Cabot Corp              .62    ...        .74  (3)   16.22
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
