<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Financial's Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FFHC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   STEVENS POINT, Wis. -- First Financial Corp. said a unit
acquired the deposits and part of the assets of a Peoria,
Ill., thrift from the federal Resolution Trust Corp. for
about $2.6 million.
   First Financial, a bank holding company, said Security
Federal Savings and Loan Association has deposits of about
$180 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Apparent Normalcy
   Has Strange Feel
   In Key Saudi Town
   ---
   Though It Is Only Six Miles
   From the Kuwait Border,
   Signs of Military Are Few
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   RAS AL KHAFJI, Saudi Arabia -- This sun-bleached desert
town, population 35,000, sits on what has become the most
strategically important piece of real estate in the world.
   It is the gateway to the coastal highway that runs from
Iraq to many Saudi oil fields. Just six miles to the north is
the border with Kuwait. According to Saudi officials, the
Iraqi military buildup now totals 170,000 men in the occupied
emirate and continues to grow daily. Any defense against an
invasion of Saudi Arabia must begin here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We are not looking for a war, but if they start, we are
ready for one," said Prince Khalid Al Otaishan, the emir, or
governor, of this coastal province.
   Outside his office, there is a room full of turbaned men,
some of whom balance assault rifles on their knees. In a
field behind the building, several armored vehicles are
parked in a rare spot of shade.
   Other than that, however, there is little to indicate a
military crisis, because both the Iraqis and the American and
allied forces arrayed against them appear to be trying to
play down the growth in their forces.
   U.S. troops, which have continued to pour into Saudi bases
further south, are taking care not to be obvious about their
presence. During a long drive up the coastal road, reporters
saw only a few jeeps, two light tanks, some helicopters, and
two busloads of troops to indicate that Marines and
paratroopers are patrolling the oilfields.
   According to Saudi officials, who asked not to be
identified, the Iraqis appear to be following a similar
policy. Their main forces are at least 25 miles from the
Kuwaiti border, holding what appears to be a defensive
position in a broad crescent-shaped formation around the city
of Kuwait. And they have established a major command post
south of the city.
   "There is a lot of tension in the air," said Albert Skiba,
an employee of a U.S. oil-service company, as he finished
lunch at a beachfront hotel here.
   The hotel is full and the town is beginning to fill up
again, according to the prince. Some of the city's residents
fled after Iraq invaded Kuwait, but now, bolstered by the
presence of Saudi troops and the knowledge that American
troops and warships are nearby, they are returning, he said.
   Some Kuwaitis, including Capt. Mohammed Al Ajmi of the
Kuwait air force have come to the border area after initially
fleeing farther south with his family. He said that's because
he can use his car phone to call relatives in Kuwait, where
he says there is growing guerrilla resistance to the Iraqi
occupiers.
   Saudi officals say they have heard of two cases in which
Kuwaitis have bribed Iraqi crews to abandon their tanks and
then blew them up. Capt. Al Ajmi says he has heard of a case
where Kuwaitis used a car bomb to blow up an Iraqi command
post in Kuwait.
   One worry that Saudi officials here have is that the lull
that has settled over this town could end quickly.
   Moreover, one official noted, there are an additional
85,000 Iraqi troops just north of Kuwait in Iraq. Thousands
more are believed to be moving south from Iraq's border with
Iran -- a result of Iraq's peacemaking overtures to its
former enemy.
   Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, touring the Middle East,
told U.S. troops that the Pentagon's latest estimates are
that Saddam Hussein's army has moved "over 200,000 men" into
Kuwait and southern Iraq, along with "well over 1,000 tanks."
   At the same time, a senior Pentagon official traveling
with Mr. Cheney indicated that the U.S. buildup would
continue until at least 60,000 fighting troops and another
40,000 or so supporting soldiers have arrived in the region.
"We will stop only when the president says enough, and
there's no sign of that yet," the official said.
   Moreover, Mr. Cheney is expected to lay the groundwork for
potential sales of military equipment to Oman and the United
Arab Emirates when he meets with leaders of those countries
today. And a senior Bahrain official said that the Persian
Gulf kingdom would be willing to make bases available to the
U.S. if it became necessary to counter Iraqi threats.
   Prince Al Otaishan, 41, who has a master's degree from the
University of Southern California, says he is glad to have
the U.S. assistance. However, he says, he has announced
contingency plans to evacuate residents to a tent city in the
desert should shooting start.
   "You have to protect people. You just can't leave them
here." he said.
   Mursi Abubakr, son of the owner of the beachfront hotel,
said he hasn't heard of any official evacuation plans and
can't conceive of leaving. "You just can't leave this," he
said, referring to the business.
   "We called the {U.S.} embassy," said Scott Scheid, another
oil-field service company employee, "and they said they would
call if there is a problem."
   One problem would be if the production here from the
Japanese-owned Arabian Oil Co., whose fields produce 300,000
barrels of oil a day, were lost to the West.
   In a briefing given to U.S. reporters over the weekend,
Hisham Nazer, the Saudi oil minister, said the combined
production loss from Kuwait and Iraq would amount to "well
over" four million barrels a day. The Saudi government, he
said, isn't sure how much of that could be made up by other
sources because it doesn't know the actual production
capacity of some of the other members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.
   Departing from the usual diplomatic rhetoric used by the
Saudis, he said his government was demanding that OPEC meet
"immediately" to plan how to help resolve the crisis.
Otherwise, he said, Saudi Arabia will begin to pump an extra
two million barrels a day by itself.
   "We don't see how an organization can turn away its face
and say there is no crisis. All they have to do is go to
Kuwait and they will find one," he said. Indonesia and
several other members of OPEC have indicated that they are
not yet ready for such a meeting.
   Saudi officials say that it may take a while for the pinch
of the international embargo to be felt by Iraq's military.
"They are extremely well-stocked with spare parts and
munitions," one said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ponce Federal Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4D
</SO>
<CO>
   PFBS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PONCE, Puerto Rico -- Ponce Federal Bank said it has
engaged Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc. as its financial adviser to
explore various options to maximize shareholder value,
including the possible sale of the company.
   The troubled thrift also said it has recently been
contacted by another institution, which it did not name,
concerning the possible acquisition of Ponce Federal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Integrated Resources,
   Krupp Fail to Reach
   Pact on Partnerships
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   IRE CMM AIMAZ
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Integrated Resources Inc.'s agreement to sell
its interests in four investment partnerships to Krupp Cos.
for as much as $45 million in cash and notes collapsed.
   The failure to reach a final agreement appears to remove a
big hurdle to CRI Inc.'s proposed hostile tender offer for
the partnerships, known as American Insured Mortgage
Investors. CRI is a real estate investment firm based in
Rockville, Md.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Integrated is seeking to sell its general partnership
interest, which was valued at about $25 million in the Krupp
agreement, as well as its right to manage the partnerships.
Integrated estimates it receives management fees of about $8
million a year, before costs. If CRI's bid succeeds,
Integrated would lose the right to the management fees.
   The sale of Integrated's interests in the AIM
partnerships, which was being conducted through a
court-approved auction, is part of Integrated's effort to
raise cash to satisfy claims of creditors, who are owed a
total of about $1.8 billion.
   Although substantive issues between Integrated and Krupp
had been resolved, the deal dissolved, Krupp said, when
Integrated rejected a provision permitting Krupp's lender to
reassess its commitment if further litigation arose before
closing.
   Stephen D. Weinroth, Integrated chairman, said he wasn't
sure how Integrated would proceed. "We have several avenues
to pursue," he said, including negotiating with others who
had expressed interest, and offering investors possible
changes in the management contract that would make it more
difficult to remove the manager. Mr. Weinroth wouldn't rule
out negotiating with CRI.
   Laurence Gerber, president of Krupp, a Boston real estate
investment manager, said, "The failure to consummate this
deal will result in investors being the biggest losers." He
said it was unlikely another agreement with Integrated would
be reached.
   CRI is proposing to gain control of the partnerships by
approaching investors directly and offering to exchange units
in two ventures it manages for the AIM units. A CRI spokesman
said the firm filed lawsuits in state courts in Delaware and
California last week to obtain a list of AIM investors.
   The CRI spokesman said CRI would proceed with its proposed
offer, which it filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission in June, as soon as it receives the lists and SEC
clearance. CRI also has filed lawsuits to force Integrated to
reverse changes in its management contracts on the
partnerships.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Movies:
   At Columbia, Comeback Is the Big Production
   ----
   By Laura Landro
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   SNE CRC TWX
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   CULVER CITY, Calif. -- At the historic Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer
studios, the atmosphere is chaotic. The first wave of
Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. employees have started
the move from Burbank to their new headquarters here.
Construction crews mingle with movie crews, and employees
wander around buildings named after Buster Keaton and Judy
Garland to find their new offices.
   By far the most imposing edifice is the art deco Thalberg
Building, where the office once occupied by film pioneer
Louis B. Mayer is getting an expensive face lift for the new
Columbia brass, Chief Executive Peter Guber and his
co-chairman, Jon Peters. Among the vintage Columbia movie
posters lining the walls is one at the entrance to the
Guber-Peters suite: Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers in "You'll
Never Get Rich."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Messrs. Guber and Peters, who produced "Batman" and "Rain
Man," are already plenty rich. Now their job is to turn
Columbia into a moneymaker. After paying $3.4 billion and
assuming $1.5 billion in debt to acquire Columbia -- and
shelling out another $200 million for Guber Peters Co. last
year. Sony Corp. faces several years of heavy expenditures
before it can expect a return. It will cost $500 million to
$700 million for the Columbia and Tri-Star Pictures units to
crank out 20 to 30 movies annually. And Sony will have to
spend plenty more on marketing, distribution and television
operations.
   Another $50 million to $100 million will go to massive
renovation and new construction at the Culver City studio
over the next two to three years, while annual overhead costs
have been increased to about $50 million from $35 million
because of the heavy influx of new executives and staff.
   Sony acknowledges that it expects Columbia to have a
negative cash flow of $250 million to $350 million -- or
about $100 million in operating losses -- for each of the
next two years, and possibly beyond. Annual cash flow of
about $150 million from Columbia's healthy television
operations and its Loews Theaters won't be nearly enough to
offset the investment required, and it will take 18 months to
two years to get a steady flow of new films made and
released.
   But Sony dismisses industry speculation that it faces a
bottomless pit of losses and huge unexpected write-offs,
saying that any "accounting adjustments" associated with
Columbia were treated as part of its acquisition costs in the
fiscal year that ended in March. While acknowledging that the
dearth of viable movie projects at Columbia was worse than
expected at the time of purchase, Sony USA President Michael
P. Schulhof says, "There are no major surprises at Columbia."
   Indeed, Sony earlier this year reduced its earnings growth
projections to cover the Columbia losses. Net income, which
increased 42% in fiscal 1990 to $685 million, should grow
only 12% in fiscal 1991; Columbia-related costs will shave
$50 million to $80 million off the year's earnings, the
company says. Sony refinanced $2.7 billion in debt from the
Columbia purchase in the Japanese market earlier this year,
resulting in sharply lower interest expense.
   With world-wide sales of $23 billion last year and strong
results in its electronics and recorded music businesses, the
Japanese electronic giant can be sanguine for a while. Sony
says it was fully prepared for the financial hit and still
views Columbia as a key strategic purchase to meld its
hardware and software businesses. Moreover, Sony says, it is
confident that Mr. Guber has assembled a top-flight team that
can turn the studio around in a few years.
   "Sony's entry into Hollywood is going pretty much as we
expected," Mr. Schulhof says. "It probably is costing a
little more than we thought it would, but new management, led
by Peter Guber, has earned the respect of Sony top
management."
   Messrs. Guber and Peters, who declined to be interviewed,
have been spending at a breakneck pace, paying top dollar for
writers and directors, buying scripts at record prices and
generally making a big splash around town. Much of the
attention, though, has been on the seeming excesses of Mr.
Peters, the former hairdresser who is by far the more
flamboyant of the Guber-Peters team. Hollywood has been
buzzing in recent months as Mr. Peters put his ex-wife, a
girlfriend and his son's girlfriend on the Columbia payroll.
   Hollywood executives predict it is just a matter of time
before Sony brass in Tokyo clamps down and the company is
expected to scrutinize such arrangements more closely in the
future, but so far officials don't appear to be overly
concerned. Mr. Peters, Sony and Columbia say, is a valuable
asset as the company's "chief creative officer," looking for
potential blockbusters for the company and trying to cement
its relationships with key talent, and his friends all have
legitimate jobs.
   Mr. Peters's antics aside, there is plenty of real action
at the company. Star producer and director James Brooks
("Terms of Endearment," "War of the Roses" and television's
"The Simpsons") recently agreed to move his company to
Columbia. Tri-Star also is in informal discussions with
Steven Spielberg about having him direct "Captain Hook," a
new take on the Peter Pan story starring Dustin Hoffman.
"Lethal Weapon" director Dick Donner will direct "Radio
Flyer" for Columbia, Robin Williams is starring in "The
Fisher King" for Tri-Star and Barbra Streisand -- a former
girlfriend of Mr. Peters -- is filming "Prince of Tides" at
Columbia.
   To run the Columbia unit, Mr. Guber wooed back a seasoned
executive, Frank Price, who ran Columbia in the early 1980s.
And Mr. Guber recruited Mike Medavoy, longtime head of Orion
Pictures Corp.'s production operations, to run Tri-Star.
Entertainment attorney Alan Levine was made chief operating
officer of the parent company. And Jonathan Dolgen, president
of News Corp.'s Fox Inc., is said to be rejoining Columbia
when his Fox contract expires.
   Of the two film production units, Columbia is getting off
to a much slower start. Former President Dawn Steel did leave
three completed projects: "Flatliners," which opened last
week; "Postcards from the Edge," which stars Shirley MacLaine
and Meryl Streep and is due for release next month; and
"Awakenings," starring Robert De Niro and due out at
Christmas. But Ms. Steel left very little in development or
the early production stages that Mr. Price wanted to make.
   Never known for churning out a high volume of movies even
in his days as a studio chief at Columbia and later at MCA
Inc.'s Universal Studios, Mr. Price has so far announced only
one movie, "Return to the Blue Lagoon," a sequel to the 1980
film starring Brooke Shields. That was one of about 50
projects Mr. Price had under development at his Frank Price
Co.; under the terms of his agreement to head Columbia, he
will receive a percentage of any of those movies he makes at
Columbia. Mr. Price says he is also starting production on a
contemporary version of "Sea Wolf," based on the Jack London
book, and "Gladiator," a movie about boxing to be directed by
"Karate Kid" director John Avildsen.
   Other movies being made under the Columbia banner are
projects brought in initially by Mr. Peters and embraced by
Mr. Price, such as "Radio Flyer" and "Prince of Tides." And
Mr. Price will be able to release movies from several other
companies already associated with Columbia from the previous
regime. For example, Columbia distributes movies made by
Michael Douglas's Stonebridge Productions and Castle Rock
Entertainment, producer of the hit "When Harry Met Sally."
Columbia also has an equity interest in Castle Rock, which is
now making "Misery," based on the Stephen King novel.
   Columbia got off to a rough start on the production of
"Radio Flyers," firing first-time director David Mickey Evans
after paying him $1 million for the screenplay. After halting
production, Columbia agreed to pay a hefty $6 million to Mr.
Donner and his wife, Lauren Shuler, to direct and produce the
movie. But Columbia executives say getting a superstar
director like Mr. Donner is a big coup, and they have high
hopes for the movie.
   At Tri-Star, meanwhile, Mr. Medavoy was able to shift into
high gear more swiftly, moving ahead with some projects in
development from previous management. For example, Tri-Star
is shooting a sequel to last year's hit "Look Who's Talking"
and "Hudson Hawk," an action movie starring Bruce Willis. Mr.
Medavoy had an existing script, "Another You," rewritten for
Richard Pryor and Gene Wilder; it is about to start
production.
   Mr. Medavoy has also signed development and production
agreements with Reginald and Warrington Hudlin, producers of
the comedy "House Party"; Denzel Washington, star of "Glory"
and "Mo' Better Blues"; actor Dennis Quaid and producer
Cathleen Summers; and actor Richard Gere's Gere Productions.
He also inherits a lucrative agreement to distribute movies
for Carolco Pictures Inc., the source of most of Tri-Star's
revenue this year. Tri-Star is expected to make about $20
million from "Total Recall," and is also distributing "Air
America."
   Although most of the top executives at Columbia left after
the Sony purchase, a number of key ones stayed on. For
example, Michael Nathanson, who has been a production
executive at Columbia through four management regimes, is Mr.
Price's president of production, and Mr. Medavoy has kept on
most of the Tri-Star executive team. Buffy Shutt and Kathy
Jones, brought in by Ms. Steel to head marketing for
Columbia, now oversee marketing for both Columbia and
Tri-Star. Former distribution chief James Spitz returned to
the company, and Gary Lieberthal remained at the helm of
Columbia's television operations.
   Meanwhile, Guber Peters Co. continues to operate as a
separate unit, signing its own movie and production deals and
hiring executives. Since Mr. Price and Mr. Medavoy have been
guaranteed complete autonomy at Columbia and Tri-Star,
Guber-Peters could serve as a vehicle for Mr. Peters to
produce movies he wants to make without stepping on their
toes. But Sony and Columbia officials dismiss speculation
that Messrs. Guber and Peters are keeping their former
company alive as an insurance policy should things not work
out at Columbia. Eventually, they say, Guber Peters is likely
to be folded into the Columbia studio.
   The biggest hassle Columbia faces immediately is the
relocation to the MGM lot. As part of the settlement of a
legal battle with Time Warner Inc. over the Guber-Peters
team, Columbia was forced to trade its half interest in the
Burbank Studios for the MGM lot owned by Warner. It will be
years before the entire company can move, and executives
frequently have to make the 30- to 45-minute shuttle between
the two locations for meetings.
   Columbia recently submitted an ambitious 15-year plan to
the Culver City council, which could take months and even
years to review and approve it all. The proposal would add as
many as 19 new buildings on or near the 44-acre lot, some of
which exceed local height limits. But the plan is true to
Columbia's posh new style, featuring vest-pocket parks, a
turn of the century American town square, retail stores and
"appropriately sized and visually interesting plant
material," according to the plan.
   ---
                       Coming Attractions
                                                                                                       

   Columbia Pictures Entertainment has the following movies
in the pipeline:

 FROM COLUMBIA
                                                                                                       

 RELEASE DATE  MOVIE
                                                                                                       

 Sept. 14      Postcards From the Edge: mother-daughter
               drama with Meryl Streep and Shirley MacLaine
                                                                                                       

 Sept. 28      Texasville: sequel to Last Picture Show
                                                                                                       

 Oct. 19       Night of the Living Dead: remake of horror
               classic
                                                                                                       

 Oct. 26       Sibling Rivalry*: comedy with Kirstie Alley
                                                                                                       

 Nov. 2        Men of Respect: updated Macbeth
                                                                                                       

 Dec. 19       Awakenings: medical drama with Robert De Niro
               and Robin Williams
                                                                                                       

 Dec. 21       Misery*: Stephen King horror story directed
by Rob Reiner
                                                                                                       

 FROM TRI-STAR
                                                                                                       

 Sept. 21      Narrow Margin: Gene Hackman thriller
                                                                                                       

 Oct. 5        Avalon: Baltimore family saga directed by
               Barry Levinson
                                                                                                       

 December      Look Who's Talking Too: sequel with John
               Travolta
                                                                                                       

   *Produced by Castle Rock Entertainment
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JEC BRC J.NPM MITSY
</CO>
<LP>
   PASADENA, Calif. -- Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. said it
received a contract from Titanium Metals Corp., Henderson,
Nev., to provide engineering services for a vacuum-distilled
titanium sponge manufacturing facility.
   Terms weren't discosed. The project is scheduled to be
completed in December 1992. Advanced technology and financing
for the 22-million-pound annual capacity plant will be
provided by a group of Japanese companies including Toho
Titanium Co. and its primary shareholders: Nippon Mining Co.
and Mitsui &amp; Co. Titanium Metals is a unit of Houston-based
Baroid Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AMR Eagle Nears
   Pact on Big Order
   Of ATR Aircraft
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR I.AER F.ASP
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMR Eagle, the regional airline division of AMR Corp., has
nearly completed negotiations on an aircraft order that could
total as much as $800 million, according to people in the
airline industry.
   AMR Eagle is negotiating with ATR, an aircraft
manufacturing consortium jointly owned by Aeritalia of Italy
and Aerospatiale of France, for as many as 100 planes, the
industry people said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for AMR Eagle confirmed that the company plans
to announce "a major aircraft purchase" on Wednesday but
declined to elaborate. Alain Brodin, president of ATR
Marketing, the U.S. division of ATR, confirmed that the
consortium is negotiating with AMR but declined to discuss
specifics.
   AMR Eagle, made up of five company-owned regional carriers
and one franchisee, appears to be on a buying binge, fueled
in part by an aggressive growth plan that mirrors that of its
larger sister carrier, American Airlines. AMR Eagle flies to
about 150 cities, typically smaller ones that aren't served
by American Airlines. Less than two weeks ago, AMR Eagle
announced a purchase of as many as 50 Jetstream Super 31s
made by British Aerospace PLC. The carrier also has 50
options on the Jetstream 40.
   ATR makes two turboprop commuter planes, the 48-seat
ATR-42 and the 66-seat ATR-72. AMR Eagle has both of these
models in its 211-plane fleet. The smaller plane is priced at
$9.9 million, the larger one at $11.9 million. As the largest
U.S. airline and one of the biggest purchasers of planes,
however, AMR, based in Fort Worth, Texas, is typically able
to negotiate hefty discounts when it buys aircraft.
   It wasn't clear, though, how AMR Eagle might split its
latest transaction between the two types of planes, or how
many it will order and how many might be optioned. Typically,
AMR options far more planes than it orders, then converts the
options into firm orders closer to the delivery date when it
can determine its needs better. This arrangement guarantees
AMR a discount because of the size of the potential purchase,
with the added advantage of the company's not having to pay
for all the planes at once. It also guarantees the airline a
favorable delivery schedule.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   U.S. Trade Gap
   Shrank in June
   To $5.07 Billion
   ---
   Deficit Hits Lowest Level
   In 7 Years, but Oil Prices
   Likely to End Narrowing
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The huge June reduction in the U.S.'s trade
deficit, to the lowest level in seven years, is likely to be
as short-lived as the oil-price drop that helped bring it
about.
   Still, record exports were a major factor in the improved
trade outlook, and one that has more potential for lasting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The trade deficit shrank to $5.07 billion in June, $2.7
billion less than May's $7.77 billion gap, the Commerce
Department reported. Exports grew 4.6% to a record $34.30
billion, while imports fell 2.9% to $39.38 billion.
   But the U.S. is unlikely to see another deficit that small
anytime soon. One of the main ingredients in the improvement
was a drop in oil prices, which helped reduce the nation's
petroleum import bill by $631 million. Given the subsequent
spike in oil prices following Iraq's invasion of Kuwait
earlier this month, analysts said the trade deficit is
certain to widen again.
   "I think it has nowhere to go but up," said John Endean,
an economist for the American Business Conference, an
organization of chief executives of fast-growing midsized
companies. "The June oil prices were low even by
pre-Kuwait-invasion standards."
   According to the report, oil prices were averaging $14.64
a barrel in June. On Friday, the day the trade report was
disclosed, oil was trading at around $28 a barrel on the spot
market. Spot prices aren't directly comparable with import
prices, which are usually set by contract, but analysts agree
that oil prices of all sorts are heading up.
   But economists were encouraged by progress in other areas
of trade, particularly the continued growth in exports. "The
ongoing rise in exports suggests there will be continuing
support for the U.S. economy from export demand," said
Richard Rippe, chief economist at Dean Witter Reynolds in New
York.
   U.S. exports have grown enormously over the past 2 1/2
years, although the pace of increase has slowed in recent
months. But Mr. Rippe and many other analysts said they
expect continued gains in exports, as the economies of many
of the U.S.'s major trading partners are growing at a fairly
healthy pace. That means demand for goods both foreign and
domestic is likely to continue to be strong.
   In addition, the dollar has been generally declining in
value against foreign currencies, a favorable development for
exports because it will translate into lower prices for
foreigners buying American goods.
   "Outside of oil you should see continued sizable
improvement in the net export position," predicted Lincoln
Anderson, an economist at Bear Stearns &amp; Co. in New York.
   American companies' success in selling goods overseas has
been one of the U.S. economy's few sources of strength in
recent months. "Trade is going to be the key as to whether
the economy merely slows down and we have a couple of
quarters slump in GNP (gross national product) or whether
things will get a lot worse," said Mr. Anderson.
   While rising oil prices are likely to fatten the nation's
import bill, the weak economy will probably curb imports in
other areas, many analysts believe.
   June's rise in exports reflected increased shipments of
U.S. aircraft, other capital goods and food. The drop in
imports included decreases in purchases of foreign-made cars
and industrial supplies.
   The numbers were adjusted for seasonal fluctuations.
   ---
            U.S. Merchandise Trade Deficits
                                                                                                       

     In billions of U.S. dollars, not seasonally adjusted
                                                                                                       

                      JUNE '90     MAY '90     JUNE '89
                                                                                                       

    Japan              $3.07        $2.97        $3.80
    Canada              0.69         0.56         0.66
    Western Europe     +0.81        +0.81         0.27
    NICs*               1.34         1.49         1.67
                                                                                                       

   *Newly industrialized countries: Singapore, Hong Kong,
Taiwan, South Korea.
   +=Surplus
                                                                                                       

   Source: Commerce Department.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Failure Group
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   FAIL
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   FAILURE GROUP, a Menlo Park, Calif., consulting group
devoted to analysis and prevention of engineering failures,
on Friday commenced its initial public offering of 2.8
million shares at $13 each. Prudential-Bache Capital Funding
and Hambrecht &amp; Quist Inc. are managing the underwriting.
Proceeds are to be used to reduce debt and for general
corporate purposes, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Goodrich Unit Raises Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4C
</SO>
<CO>
   GR
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   AKRON, Ohio -- B.F. Goodrich Co. said its Geon Vinyl unit
raised its resin and compound prices by two cents a pound,
effective Sept. 1.
   The maker of plastics, specialty chemicals and aerospace
products said the boost resulted from increased crude prices
caused by the Middle East crisis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE EUROP JPM
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report.
                                                                                                       

                         MORTGAGE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $300 million of notes,
due Aug. 28, 1995, priced at par to yield 8.80%. The notes,
which are noncallable for one year, were priced at a spread
of 35 basis points above the Treasury's five-year note. The
issue will be sold through underwriters led by Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets.
   Federal Home Loan Bank -- $265 million of notes, due Aug.
21, 1995, priced at par to yield 8.75%. The notes, which are
noncallable for one year, were priced at a spread of 32 basis
points above the Treasury's five-year note. The issue will be
sold through underwriters led by Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   JPM GMBH (U.S. parent) -- $500 million of loan
participation certificates due September 2000, via JP Morgan
Securities Ltd. and joint lead DKB International, with coupon
at three-month London Interbank Offered Rate plus 25 basis
points at a price of par for first five years and three-month
Libor plus 35 points thereafter. Offered is structured to
fund and maintain subordinated loan to Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank,
London Branch. Call at par on any interest payment date from
fifth year.
   Staatsbank Berlin (East Germany) -- Five billion German
marks of floating-rate notes due September 1995, via
Commerzbank AG. Coupon is at six-month Frankfurt Interbank
Offered Rate plus five basis points, at a price of par. First
coupon fixing is Sept. 3. Backed by East German government,
with West German government expected to assume such
liabilities upon unification.
   Narasaki Sangyo Co. (Japan) -- 50 million Swiss francs of
privately placed notes due Sept. 12, 1995 with
equity-purchase warrants and fixed 5 3/16% coupon at par, via
Citicorp Investment Bank (Switzerland). Guarantee by Takugin
Bank. Warrants exercisable Sept. 25, 1990 to Sept. 1, 1995.
Warrant terms and conditions to be fixed Aug. 22.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Far West Financial Says Thrift Agency
   Rejected Capital Plan, Imposed Curbs
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   FWF
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Far West Financial Corp. said the Office of Thrift
Supervision rejected its capital plan, and imposed operating
restrictions on the savings and loan holding company.
   Separately, Los Angeles-based Far West said it took an
additional $16.9 million in loss reserves for the second
quarter, resulting in an expected second-quarter loss of $3.7
million, or 47 cents a share. A year ago, the company had net
income of $10.8 million, or $1.38 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Far West said the six-month loss is expected to total
$29.9 million, or $3.83 a share, compared with profit of
$16.3 million, or $2.09 a share, in 1989.
   The continued financial hemorrhage and the OTS action put
Far West at risk of even harsher sanctions that could include
federal seizure. The Belzberg family of Canada, which
controls the company, could elect to recapitalize Far West
and bring it out of its spiral. Far West foundered after
amassing one of the largest junk-bond portfolios in the
industry.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, Far
West fell 25 cents to $1.25.
   The company's principal operating unit, Far West Savings &amp;
Loan Association, failed to meet regulatory capital
requirements, and filed a capital plan that was amended in
May.
   However, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.'s San
Francisco office ruled that a major part of that plan, the
proposed liquidation of the unit holding the company's junk
bonds into Far West Savings, was "impermissible," according
to Far West Financial President Charles Green.
   Far West protested the regional office's opinion as
"incorrect," and appealed the matter to FDIC in Washington.
However, pending resolution by FDIC headquarters, Far West
said that on Aug. 13 it was notified by letter that the OTS
too had rejected the capital plan.
   The OTS action precludes Far West from buying or selling
any assets, or making any new loans or commitments without
prior approval from the San Francisco office of OTS.
   In an interview, Mr. Green said the company's capital plan
was based on the proposed liquidation into the thrift of the
unit that owns all of the company's high-yield, or junk
bonds, valued at $395 million as of June 30.
   "Liquidation of that unit into Far West Savings was
designed to accomplish certain tax strategies and to get away
from a capital deduction," Mr. Green said. "It was always our
understanding that we could do that." However, the local FDIC
office in San Francisco "presented this as an impermissible
acquisition of assets," he said. "We maintain we've always
owned these assets. Therefore, there's no acquisition, and no
change of risk" to the insurance fund.
   Indeed, the executive said, rejecting the liquidation
entails more risk to the insurance fund "because it puts our
capital plan in jeopardy." He said he continues to hope that
FDIC policy makers in Washington will review the matter
favorably.
   Far West calculates its thrift's tangible net worth at
$37.7 million as of June 30. But Far West warned that denial
of the liquidation plan could result in a tangible capital
value on a regulatory basis of negative $23.6 million.
Moreover, if certain accounting and tax issues aren't
resolved in Far West's favor, its value could reach a
negative $75 million, the company said.
   While Far West said it believes its assets and liabilities
are properly valued, it noted regulatory authorities may
require the creation of additional reserves for loans,
investments and other contingent liabilities. Such reserves,
if required, would be reflected in the company's third
quarter operating results.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CMS Energy Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CMS
</CO>
<LP>
   DEARBORN, Mich. -- CMS Energy Corp. said the Michigan
Supreme Court has delayed the company from using its
interests in the Midland Cogeneration Venture.
   The utility holding company said interests include $1.2
billion of the cogeneration venture's notes and about $315
million of its equity interests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Michigan Court of Appeals on Wednesday reaffirmed its
earlier denial to restrict use of these interests. In today's
action, the Michigan Supreme Court said it will consider the
need to review the actions of the Court of Appeals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ashland Oil Registration
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   ASH
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   ASHLAND, Ky. -- Ashland Oil Inc. said it filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration
statement to allow for offerings from time to time of an
additional $100 million in medium-term notes.
   The company said net proceeds will be used for refinancing
and other general purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   Fine Line
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   My attitude toward corporate rebels
   Is mixed, and hard to define,
   For they're dynamic movers in other departments
   And troublemakers in mine.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   Signs of the Times
                                                                                                       

   Q. How do you tell a communist these days?
   A. A communist believes in markets. A capitalist believes
that if things get really bad the government will bail him
out.
   -- William D. White.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Consumer Prices Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- French consumer prices rose 0.3% in July from
June and were up 3.0% from a year earlier, according to
preliminary estimates from the National Statistics Institute.
   The monthly increase was at the low end of market
expectations and follows a monthly rise of 0.2% in June. The
latest result left annual price growth unchanged at 3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Newport to Repurchase Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NEWP
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   FOUNTAIN VALLEY, Calif. -- Newport Corp. said it
authorized the repurchase of one million of its common
shares, or about 14% of the total outstanding, from time to
time in the open market.
   The repurchase program is in addition to a
one-million-share buy-back program authorized in 1987. So
far, the maker of laser instruments and parts and accessories
for the optics market has repurchased 774,000 shares under
the earlier buy-back program.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Watches
   Japan Closely
   In Trade Dispute
   ---
   Commerce Official Presses
   Nation About Failed Bid
   Made by Westinghouse
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3D
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN WX G.DAI ALD
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. is seeking a quick settlement of a
number of trade disputes with Japan, including one sparked by
the failure of a highly competitive U.S. firm to win an
airport construction contract, a senior Commerce Department
official said in an interview.
   Michael Farren, undersecretary of commerce for
international trade, said he is still pressing Tokyo for an
explanation of why AEG Westinghouse Transportation Systems
Inc. lost an award for the new Kansai airport's people-mover
system to a less-experienced Japanese firm. The
Pittsburgh-based company, a joint venture of Westinghouse
Electric Corp. and Daimler-Benz AG of West Germany, is
reputedly the leader in this field, having installed 14 of
the 18 airport people-movers in operation around the world.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Farren said he also is watching how the Kansai airport
management handles an imminent award for the airport's
luggage-handling system. BAE Automated Systems Inc. of
Carrolton, Texas, is one of several firms bidding for that
job.
   The people-mover award is valued at only $40 million to
$45 million and the baggage-handling system somewhat less.
But these two awards could be the "litmus test" of how well a
1988 accord to open 14 major Japanese public-works projects
to foreign participation is working, Mr. Farren said.
   Japan has to show some give in order to ease congressional
ire. Sen. Max Baucus (D., Mont.), chairman of the Senate
Finance Committee's international trade subcommittee, has
warned that the Westinghouse case "does not bode well for the
future" of the agreement. Sen. Frank Murkowski (R., Alaska),
for his part, vowed to introduce more legislation to deny
Japanese construction firms access to federally funded U.S.
public works if Japan continues its alleged discrimination
against American bidders.
   Tokyo insists that U.S. contractors are faring relatively
well under the agreement. "They have already won $100
million, and there is still 80% of the contracts to be
awarded," a Japanese diplomat said. By U.S. estimates, the 14
public-works projects covered by the agreement will create as
much as $17 billion in business over 10 to 15 years.
   The U.S. will reopen talks next month on both the
construction issue as well as Allied-Signal Inc.'s complaint
that some Japanese manufacturers are acting in concert with a
government agency to prevent the U.S. company from selling
its amorphous metal technology to potential Japanese users.
   Mr. Farren said the Allied-Signal case is another that has
to be settled soon. A 150-day period for negotiating a
settlement expires on Sept. 15. Failure to resolve the
dispute will be a cue for Allied-Signal to reactivate its
formal complaint that carries the threat of stiff trade
sanctions against Japan.
   A separate accord that obligates Japan to give U.S.
vendors wider access to its semiconductor market has a year
left to run, but Mr. Farren said he is anxious to see faster
results. The U.S. semiconductor industry has been demanding
sanctions against Japan because its Japanese market share is
still far below the promised 20%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Florida State
   Chosen Over MIT
   For Magnet Center
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The National Science Foundation, in a
controversial decision contrary to its scientific advisers'
recommendation, picked Florida State University over
Massachusetts Institute of Technology as the site for a new
national center for magnet research.
   The decision by the NSF's board stunned officials at MIT,
which for 30 years has been the world's leading center for
magnet research. In a terse statement Friday, outgoing MIT
President Paul E. Gray asked the NSF board to reconsider its
decision. Citing the NSF advisory panel's conclusion that
putting the new center at MIT would be the fastest way to
boost U.S. magnet research, he asserted that placing it at
Florida State "is hardly compatible with the NSF's interest
in the competitive posture of the U.S."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The decision paves the way for federal funding of up to
$60 million over the next five years to build the center at
the school in Tallahassee, Fla. The state of Florida has
committed an additional $58 million to the center over five
years, the NSF said.
   The new National High Magnetic Field Laboratory is aimed
at ensuring that the U.S. remains the world leader in
research on strong magnets. U.S. policy makers fear that new
magnet centers in France and Japan may soon surpass MIT's
Francis Bitter National Magnet Laboratory as leaders in the
area. Among other things, high-field magnets are playing
critical roles in studies on new superconductors,
magnetically levitated trains, new imaging devices to peer
inside the body and structures of molecules being developed
as drugs.
   The NSF board's decision followed a heated competition
between Florida State and MIT. The Florida school has
proposed to develop the center with Los Alamos National
Laboratory in New Mexico. MIT's proposal represented a
collaboration of six Boston-area schools, including Harvard
University.
   In recommending last month that the new center be placed
at MIT, the NSF advisory panel noted MIT's "proven record of
excellent performance" in science and magnet technology. The
panel added that a new magnet center at MIT would be fully
operational "at least two years sooner" than the five or more
years it would require to build the center from scratch at
Florida State.
   However, the NSF advisers noted that MIT's magnet center
hasn't been strongly backed by the school's administration
and is supported by "a somewhat limited number of faculty" at
MIT. The committee added that "it was difficult to sense any
real enthusiasm on the part of the administration" at MIT for
the new center. In contrast, the committee stated, the
Florida State group was highly enthusiastic, backed by a
"major commitment" of money from the state government and
willing to assign 24 faculty members to the new center.
   "Florida State's commitment to build an academic structure
for the new center made a big difference" in the siting
decision, said NSF Assistant Director David A. Sanchez. "Some
reviewers regarded {the MIT center} as more of a magnet
manufacturer than a national research center."
   MIT officials countered that some of the most important
magnet-related discoveries in recent years have been made at
its center. They added that MIT, as a private school, was at
a disadvantage in the contest with Florida State, which used
state government backing to help win over NSF Director Erich
Bloch and other NSF officials.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Consumer Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada's consumer price index rose a seasonally
adjusted 0.4% in July from June, Statistics Canada, a federal
agency, said.
   The increase was the same rate as that recorded in June.
The July boost was mainly attributed to increases in
transportation and food prices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, Statistics Canada reported that Canada's
merchandise trade surplus widened to 1.73 billion Canadian
dollars (US$1.51 billion) in June, partly because of a sharp
drop in imports. In May the surplus totaled C$630 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford Plant Is Idled
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DEARBORN, Mich. -- Ford Motor Co. said it will extend the
shutdown of its Dearborn, Mich., assembly plant through this
week.
   The auto maker said the move was "necessitated by a parts
shortage." Ford idled the plant last week because of weak
demand for the Ford Mustang cars built there.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The extra week of no production will result in 3,700 fewer
Mustangs for the company and affect about 2,100 hourly
workers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   U.S. Growth May Have Fallen to Zero,
   But This Week's Data Won't Show It
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Most analysts continue to think, or hope, that
the economy is only flirting with recession and soon may
start moving upward slightly faster. At the moment, however,
the economy is so close to zero growth that one or more
unfavorable developments in the Mideast oil crisis, domestic
interest rates or somewhere else could push it into slump
territory.
   Once again the current week's statistics, mostly covering
developments in July and even earlier, aren't going to tell
us much about the outlook. One of the few August numbers will
be sales of domestically produced cars for the second 10 days
of the month, and that figure isn't likely to reveal much.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales in August's first 10 days were down 18.8% from a
year earlier, and the result for the latest period is likely
to be about the same. Sales were unusually strong a year ago
as manufacturers increased rebates to move large inventories.
Those inventories are much smaller this year and so,
naturally, are the rebates.
   The increased uncertainty touched off when Iraq invaded
neighboring Kuwait early this month has led many economists
to reduce their forecasts for the inflation-adjusted gross
national product. Edward S. Hyman of C.J. Lawrence, Morgan
Grenfell Inc. looks for the preliminary GNP report for the
second quarter, to be announced Friday, to be revised
downward to zero growth. The advance number, announced a
month ago, was an increase of 1.2% annually.
   But Stephen S. Roach of Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., though he
has cut his forecasts, still looks for preliminary GNP growth
of 2% a year. "The economy," he says, "is not likely to fall
into an outright recession at any point in the next year and
a half. We continue to maintain that the economy has enough
forward momentum to avoid recession -- even in the face of an
energy shock."
   The 49 economists interviewed monthly by Blue Chip
Economic Indicators, a Sedona, Ariz., newsletter, cut their
average GNP forecasts for both 1990 and 199l, predicting
growth at a rate of 1.3% this year and 1.7% next year. A
month earlier, they predicted gains of 1.9% for 1990 and 2.2%
for 1991. But the averages obscure deeper concerns on the
part of some. R.J. Eggert of Blue Chip notes that in August
there was a sharp rise in the number of analysts who
predicted a quarter or two of negative growth between now and
the end of next year.
   Donald H. Straszheim, chief economist of Merrill Lynch,
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith, was predicting a recession last year
but later changed his mind. At the moment, he doesn't seem
too comfortable with that change. "The U.S. economy is on the
edge of recession and may fall in," he says. "Though we think
that the economy can avoid the plunge, the risk of a downturn
is high and rising."
   Among the other numbers due out this week, durable goods
orders for July are expected to show a reasonable gain of
more than 2%. Mr. Hyman of C.J. Lawrence says, "Our model
indicates that July durable goods orders rose 2.5%, largely
due to an estimated 3% increase in auto production," which
fell 2.8% in June.
   ---
                     CLOSELY WATCHED REPORTS
                                                                                                       

        Statistics Released in the Week Ended Aug. 17
                                                                                                       

                                                   CHANGE
                                              (from prior
                                TOTAL          period)
                                                                                                       

 Money Supply
                                                                                                       

   M1 -- Week ended
   Aug. 6 (in billions)          $813             + $3.8
                                                                                                       

   M2 -- Week ended
   Aug. 6 (in billions)      $3,289.2             +$11.1
                                                                                                       

   M3 -- Week ended
   Aug. 6 (in billions)      $4,078.4             + $9.8
                                                                                                       

 Consumer price index
   July                         130.4             +  0.4
                                                                                                       

 Retail sales
   July (in billions)         $149.51             +  0.1%
                                                                                                       

 Industrial production index
   July                         109.9             Unch.
                                                                                                       

 New jobless claims
   Week ended Aug. 4          341,000             -  2.3%
                                                                                                       

 Capacity utilization
   July, change in
   percentage points            83.4%             -  0.2
                                                                                                       


   July, annual rate
   (in thousands)               1,148             -  2.6%
                                                                                                       

 Building permits
   July, annual rate
   (in thousands)               1,079             -  2.6%
                                                                                                       

 Business inventories
   June (in billions)         $797.30             -  0.4%
                                                                                                       

 Business sales
   June (in billions)         $544.43             +  1.0%
                                                                                                       

 Merchandise trade deficit
   June (in billions)           $5.07             - $2.70
                                                                                                       

 Auto sales
   Early Aug. total vs.
   year ago                   150,877             - 20.7%
                                                                                                       

              Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

 Money supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

 Auto sales (Thurs.)
 Mid-August vs. Year ago
                                                                                                       

 New job claims (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

 Durable goods orders (Thurs.)
 July
                                                                                                       

 Second-quarter GNP (Fri.)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AmBase Says Sale
   Of Insurance Unit
   Will Repay Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   ABC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Seeking to assure worried investors, AmBase
Corp. said it will be able to repay its debt upon the
completion of the proposed sale of its Home Insurance Co.
property and casualty insurance business to Vik Brothers
International.
   AmBase, which will be essentially a thrift holding company
when the proposed sale of its insurance units is completed,
made the announcement on Friday in response to "numerous
inquiries about its intention and ability to repay
outstanding indebtedness."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company last week said it plans to sell its Home
Insurance subsidiary to the European-based investor group for
$544 million. At the time of the announcement, an AmBase
spokesman said Vik Brothers would also assume $76 million of
AmBase's corporate debt. AmBase said it would also sell
preferred stock in Home Insurance with a face value of $124
million.
   By the time the deal is completed, AmBase's debt is
expected to total about $730 million, consisting of $400
million of senior bank financing, $102 million of 11 3/4%
Sinking Fund Debentures, $150 million of 14 7/8% Senior
Subordinated Notes, due in 1998, and the $76 million to be
assumed by Vik Brothers.
   AmBase officials maintain the company will raise enough
cash through the Home Insurance unit and stock sales to pay
off its debt, although some securities analysts remain
uncertain. "People are skeptical," said David Fitton, an
analyst in the high yield research department at Merrill
Lynch &amp; Co. "This company has not come through in the past."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading on Friday,
AmBase shares rose 25 cents to close at $2.125. Since the
Home Insurance deal was announced Aug. 14, AmBase shares have
plunged from $7.50.
   After the company announced plans to sell its troubled
Home Insurance units last February, it suspended payment of
its quarterly common stock dividend, but said that it
expected to pay a special dividend to shareholders when it
closed on the sale. Last week, however, AmBase officials
admitted the company would not be able to distribute the
special dividend.
   As a result, a shareholder has filed suit in federal court
in Manhattan, charging AmBase with disseminating false
information to inflate its stock price. The lawsuit claims
that AmBase should have disclosed earlier that it would not
be able to pay the special dividend. The suit, which seeks
class-action status, was filed on behalf of all shareholders
who bought AmBase stock between May 14 and Tuesday. Damages
weren't specified.
   Securities analysts have expressed dismay over the low
price that Home Insurance fetched. "People were expecting
more, because the company led people to believe there was
going to be more," said Udayan Ghose, insurance analyst at
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. Other analysts said AmBase
shareholders are unlikely to approve the proposed sale.
   Doubts over shareholder approval of the transaction
prompted Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. to slightly amend its review
of the debt and preferred securities of AmBase Corp. and Home
Group Funding Corp. Both remain on S&amp;P's CreditWatch list,
which means simply that S&amp;P is anticipating a change in
ratings. Previously, S&amp;P had expected any change in ratings
to be positive, according to a spokeswoman for S&amp;P
CreditWire. Now, the spokeswoman says changes are more likely
to be negative.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Leftist Parties'
   Future in Italy
   Spawns Debate
   ---
   Changes Spur Speculation
   On an Alliance to Oust
   The Christian Democrats
   ----
   By John Perrotta
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   ROME -- Can the left rule Italy?
   Changes in the Italian Communist Party, accelerated by
events in Eastern Europe, are fueling speculation among
Western diplomats and others that Italy's left-leaning
parties will form an alliance that will end the political
stagnation brought on by 40 years of Christian
Democrat-dominated rule -- perhaps as early as 1995.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A rise of the left hinges in large part on how politically
risky the Italian Socialist Party, which forms part of the
government's five-party ruling coalition, deems a partnership
with the Communists -- and whether the Communists, blocked by
the Christian Democrats from cabinet posts, are willing to be
the junior partner in such an association.
   And, observers say, the electoral system also would have
to be reformed to reduce the number of Italy's many political
parties and make it easier for one party or an alliance to
win a majority and avoid a coalition government. Under the
current "lottizzazione", or spoils system, ministerial posts
and ranking government jobs are divided among the parties of
the ruling coalition.
   Nevertheless, recent events are making the rise of a
united left more possible than ever before.
   At the extraordinary Communist Party congress in Bologna
in March, more than two-thirds of delegates voted to change
the party's name -- its new label will be decided at an
autumn congress. They also voted to drop the hammer and
sickle from the party logo and form a new identity. By moving
to shake off the trappings of communism, the party is taking
a giant leap toward acceptance by the Socialists, who have
said they would block the Communists' application for
membership in the International Socialist and the European
Parliament's Socialist groups -- credentials vital to the
Italian Communist Party's quest for legitimacy.
   In the May regional elections -- the Communists' first
major test after the Bologna congress -- the party vote
dropped to 24% from 30.2% in 1985; that vote was the party's
worst defeat ever. Most of the difference was spread among
other parties. But the Socialists gained only two points from
13.3% in 1985.
   Says a Western diplomat: "The Socialist Party must do more
than gain two points in five years if it wants the prime
ministership and major ministries."
   Adds John L. Harper, professor at Johns Hopkins
University's Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International
Studies in Bologna: "The Communists and Socialists must now
get down to business, because they're not going anywhere
alone . . . The Socialists recognize that they're stuck . . .
in a political situation . . . with {Prime Minister Giulio}
Andreotti and the most conservative faction of the Christian
Democrat Party."
   Observers also note that the dream of Bettino Craxi,
Socialist Party leader and former prime minister, is to
reunite the left and correct the Italian Communists'
defection in 1921. His long-range strategy is to pull the
Socialists out of the government's ruling coalition and lead
the left in overthrowing the Christian Democrats. The
observers say Mr. Craxi is a passionate man with deeply held
beliefs about his purpose in life. Those beliefs may be
heightened by the 56-year-old's health: Rumors say his
diabetes is worsening.
   Further, the Communist Party's painful, dragged-out
metamorphosis into an acceptable social-democratic party
makes the Socialist strategy less politically risky.
   And although there is still much bad blood between
Socialists and Communists, the tone of the debate between
them has become more conciliatory and insults have stopped.
   The Communist Party also has put people with technical
competence in its shadow cabinet, such as shadow Justice
Minister Stefano Rodota, a professor of civil law at the
University of Rome and a member of parliament since 1979; the
party also is pushing practical legislation, a sign that its
leaders are thinking more clearly about coming into power.
   Finally, some worry that Italy's economic prosperity can't
last; they think the left's chances for power will be boosted
when the economy gets worse.
   But observers are careful to note that Communist Party
Secretary Achille Occhetto's reconstitution of the party is a
gamble -- not only for his political career, but also for the
party's very survival.
   "If you destroy the Communist identity, what are you left
with?," asks Patrick McCarthy, professor at the Johns Hopkins
Bologna Center. "All the Communists who volunteer for nothing
-- are they going to do that for a party they know nothing
about, and that has no history? The hammer and sickle are
emotive."
   The Italian Communist Party was born in 1921 when it split
from the Italian Socialist Party over policy differences. The
Communists were instrumental in drafting a postwar
constitution, which established democracy in Italy. With 1.5
million members, it is the largest such party in the West.
   But even if the Communists and Socialists manage to form a
partnership, their declining vote totals would need the
support of other parties to have a chance to topple the
Christian Democrats. Votes from the small Social-Democrat,
Republican, Radical and Green parties, however, give such a
left coalition optimistically only about 48% -- not the
majority plus a few percentage points needed to gain control
in the Council of Ministers, or cabinet. Some votes surely
would come from Roman Catholics and others who want change
but have been afraid to vote the Communist ballot. But
political experts caution not to exaggerate their number.
   Observers also note that the whole "socialist-unity"
strategy will fail without electoral reform. Since the end of
World War II, vote splits among the Socialists, Communists
and others have allowed the Christian Democrats to dominate
in coalition governments. "Prime Minister Andreotti's
strategy has been to keep the left divided -- to keep the
Socialists and Communists apart," says Prof. Harper.
   A movement is afoot, however, to remove Italy's
proportionality system through a referendum. Those seeking
change want an electoral system modeled in part after West
Germany's, in which parties winning less than 5% of the vote
can't be represented in parliament. An alternative would be
to force the top two vote-getting parties into a runoff.
Either move would reduce the electorate's choice and move
Italy toward a two-party system.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NHI Nelson Holdings
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   NNH T.NNH
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- NHI Nelson Holdings International Ltd. said it
expects to report a gain of about 2.5 million Canadian
dollars (U.S.$2.2 million) in the current quarter from the
repurchase of its 6% convertible subordinated debentures.
   The company said it paid about C$2.5 million to repurchase
C$5 million of the debentures, due Oct. 31. A spokesman said
that the company has about C$8 million of the debentures
still outstanding and that it would be prepared to consider
further discounted repurchases.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   NHI is the holding company for Nelson Entertainment Group.
NHI had net income last year of $4.5 million on revenue of
$108.6 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Interactive Media Technologies
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IMTX
</CO>
<LP>
   SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -- Interactive Media Technologies Inc.
said it switched the investment firm on its $4 million
private placement of 12% convertible subordinated debentures.
The communications concern said it replaced the investment
firm R.G. Dickinson, a unit of Stotler Group Inc., a futures
concern which was forced into bankruptcy earlier this month.
   Interactive Media Technologies said it signed a letter of
intent for two other investment banking firms, A.T. Brod
Investment Banking and Wainwright Austin Stone &amp; Co. to
manage the offering. Proceeds will be used to increase
manufacturing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   British Price Index Up
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Britain's retail price index rose 0.1% in July
from June and was up 9.8% on the year, the U.K. Central
Statistical Office said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Program Trading's
   Share of Big Board
   Volume Declines
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Program trading, reflecting for the first time
the effects of a newly approved "circuit breaker," declined
to 8.4% of New York Stock Exchange volume, or 17.5 million
shares a day, in the week ended Aug. 3.
   In the previous week, program trading accounted for 9.9%,
or 17 million shares a day, the Big Board said in its weekly
report on computer-aided trading strategies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At 9:53 a.m. on Aug. 3, a "circuit breaker" designed to
restrict program trading went into effect after the Dow Jones
Industrial Average fell 50 points in reaction to the Iraqi
invasion of Kuwait. The restriction requires index-arbitrage
traders to wait for stock prices to rise from previous trades
before executing the stock side of their transactions.
   In the first thirty minutes before the restriction on
program trading, the Big Board said CS First Boston Inc.'s
First Boston Corp. unit sold about 1.4 million shares to
facilitate customer orders while Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. sold
633,000 shares in program trading for its own account and
387,000 as an agent for customers.
   Another circuit breaker called the sidecar went into
effect at 1:19 p.m. when September futures on the S&amp;P 500
index showed a loss of 12 points, the Big Board said. The
sidecar, a special Big Board computer file, handled program
trading orders for a five-minute period. The Big Board said
Bear Stearns &amp; Co. sold 683,000 shares in program trading for
its own account while Susquehanna Investment Group sold
535,000 shares between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m.
   The Dow Jones Industrial then reversed its fall, rising 52
points between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. During that time Kidder
Peabody sold 506,00 shares for its own account and bought
147,000 shares as an agent. Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. bought
465,000 shares for its own account or as an agent, and
Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. bought 408,000 shares as an agent.
   For the week, the five most active program traders, which
accounted for 60% of all program trading on the exchange
were: Kidder Peabody (18.1 million shares), Morgan Stanley &amp;
Co. (12.5 million), Susquehanna (9.2 million), Bear Stearns
(6.4 million) and PaineWebber Inc. (6.4 million).
   The Big Board said of the five most active program
traders, Kidder Peabody, Susquehanna and Bear Stearns were
primarily involved in trading for their own accounts, while
the other two firms executed most of their program trading
for customers.
   Program trading is the purchase or sale of a group of at
least 15 and often hundreds of different stocks. Stock-index
arbitrage involves stock purchases and sales with offsetting
trades in futures and options. For the week, stock-index
arbitrage was led by Kidder Peabody and Susquehanna, which
accounted for 55% of the total.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   ASH BRIN
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ashland Oil Inc., shelf offering from time to time of an
additional $100 million in medium-term notes.
                                                                                                       

   Broadcast International Inc., proposed offering of 1.28
million common shares, via William Blair &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Dastek International, initial offering of 1.6 million
common shares, via Robertson, Stephens &amp; Co. and Needham &amp;
Co. Inc.
                                                                                                       

   National Medical Waste Inc., initial offering of one
million common shares, via Reich &amp; Co. Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ominous Pattern:
   Before Its Invasion,
   Iraq Strengthened Ties
   To Terrorist Network
   ---
   Groups Invited to Baghdad,
   Intelligence Agencies Say;
   Hussein's Motives Unclear
   ---
   Abu Nidal and Hezbollah
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg and Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In the months leading up to Saddam Hussein's
invasion of Kuwait, the Iraqi dictator secretly built new
ties with a long list of terrorist operators, U.S.
intelligence agencies say.
   Now he is in a position to deploy those killers and
kidnappers to strike at Americans, Europeans and moderate
Arabs, if he decides to turn to the terrorist option in the
Persian Gulf crisis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. officials stress that the Central Intelligence Agency
and other U.S. and Allied intelligence operations haven't
detected any specific terrorist moves to retaliate for
President Bush's swift military deployment to the Gulf. And
they are anxious to head off public alarm; portents of
terrorist attacks have been wrong in the past.
   But the West's counterterrorism networks have gone into
high gear in the past 10 days, issuing alerts across the
world and even within the U.S. Their worry has increased as
analysts have revisited past intelligence reports with the
advantage of hindsight and concluded that, well before the
invasion, the Iraqi dictator seemed to be methodically
knitting together a network of old and new terrorist allies.
Although for years Saddam Hussein had sat on the terrorism
sidelines, even expelling some groups, now he appears in a
position to get back into the game if he chooses.
   By one foreign intelligence estimate, there may be as many
as 1,400 active international terrorists now in Iraq, which
is double the estimate of just a year ago. Any attack they
might stage against Americans could put pressure on President
Bush to order military retaliation, risking wider combat. "We
have conveyed the message to Saddam Hussein that an act of
terror will be viewed as something for which he'll be held
responsible," says a senior administration official.
   Nobody in the West knows for sure whether Saddam Hussein
will choose the path of terrorism. He faces political and
logistical problems in using terror tactics, and a growing
American military force on his doorstep. Experts warn that
intelligence in this field is slippery, sometimes
contradictory, and subject to differing interpretations.
   However, American, French and Israeli sources familiar
with intelligence on the subject say Saddam Hussein took a
number of key steps earlier this year to build up his
terrorist capabilities. The various spy services don't agree
on all the details, but all are convinced that the terrorist
pattern is real. Among the actions by Saddam Hussein they
cite are these:
   -- He began reinstalling the notorious Abu Nidal
Organization in Baghdad this spring. It had been exiled for
years to Libya, where it suffered a debilitating internal
split. By some estimates, there now are hundreds of Abu Nidal
operatives training in and around Baghdad in case they are
ordered to repeat the group's earlier exploits, such as
machine-gunning airports and synagogues. Abu Nidal himself
may now be in Baghdad.
   -- He gave haven to his longtime terrorist protege Abu
Abbas, after Mr. Abbas publicly took responsibility for an
aborted attack on an Israeli beach that forced the U.S. to
end talks with the Palestine Liberation Organization. Mr.
Abbas's Palestine Liberation Front is also responsible for
the 1985 hijacking of the Achille Lauro cruise ship in the
Mediterranean, in which a wheelchair-bound American was shot
and thrown into the sea.
   -- He permitted Yasser Arafat and the rest of the PLO
leadership to move key parts of their headquarters to Baghdad
from Tunis. While many PLO leaders play no direct role in
terrorism, Western experts claim that Abu Iyad, an Arafat
deputy who is suspected of directing the killing of a U.S.
diplomat in the Sudan, is in Baghdad, along with elements of
Force 17, a PLO military arm that has engaged in terrorism.
   -- He opened contact with Ahmad Jibril, leader of the
group that is believed to have blown up Pan Am flight 103
over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988. According to French
sources, Mr. Jibril was invited to open an office in Baghdad
for his Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General
Command, even though his patrons are Iraq's worst Moslem
enemies: Syria and Iran. Mr. Jibril is thought to have
declined, but has changed patrons before.
   -- He may have gained a lever over another bloody group
that is an unlikely ally: Lebanon's pro-Iranian Shiite
Hezbollah, or Party of God. By seizing Kuwait, Saddam Hussein
won control over 15 Shiite terrorists in prison there,
including the brother-in-law of one of Hezbollah's most
brutal operatives, Imad Mugniyah. French intelligence sources
say the prisoners are now in Baghdad, and Saddam is offering
to free Mr. Mugniyah's brother-in-law if Hezbollah plays ball
with him. If true, that could be ominous for the six American
hostages the group holds, including two controlled by Mr.
Mugniyah.
   -- He is bidding for the backing of some groups with which
he doesn't appear to have made contact, by calling on devout
Moslems to help him stand up to America. U.S. intelligence is
especially worried that Iraq may recruit the Islamic Jihad, a
Lebanon-based Palestinian group that in February shot up an
Israeli tourist bus in Egypt.
   In addition to these contacts, two other major terrorist
figures have long lived in Baghdad. One is Abu Ibrahim, the
master Arab terrorist bomb-maker, who devised the hidden
suitcase bomb for destroying airliners and trained others who
built even smaller and cleverer bombs. Mr. Ibrahim is
supposedly retired, his terror group disbanded, but he is a
potential asset for Saddam Hussein.
   Another terrorist based in Iraq is Abu Salim, whose group,
the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-Special
Command, claimed responsibility for the 1985 bombing of a
Spanish restaurant frequented by U.S. servicemen.
   Lesser groups also call Baghdad home. Iraq sponsors a
marginal group called the Arab Liberation Front, and it has
backed Kurdish terrorists in Turkey and Iranian terrorists in
Iran.
   The last time American forces were on the ground in the
Mideast, it was terrorism, not conventional arms, that drove
them off, through the stunning 1983 bombing of the Marine
barracks in Lebanon.
   This time, terrorists are again issuing threats. Hussein
Musawi, a leader of Hezbollah, the Lebanese group that killed
the 241 Marines in 1983, has called for "suicide attacks"
against U.S. interests, even though his pro-Iranian group has
also condemned the Kuwait invasion. Abu Abbas, the man behind
the Achille Lauro hijacking, has told his followers to
"strike with your strong arms at all U.S. interests."
   And, in addition to the prominent, methodical groups,
experts fear that Saddam Hussein's flaming anti-American
rhetoric could incite quicker, free-lance terrorism by
unknown individuals.
   "Saddam Hussein is building up something, obviously," says
a French terrorism expert who writes under the pen name of
Xavier Raufer. "It seems that even in May and June, Saddam
Hussein already had something in mind."
   Gary Sick, a former National Security Council specialist
on the Gulf, thinks terrorist actions inspired by Saddam
Hussein are "highly probable." He notes: "This can be
directed not only at us, but also at the Saudis and the
Egyptians and all of those Arab forces who have chosen to
oppose him." In case of terrorism, he says, "Bush will find
it very hard to sit still with all those forces there."
   Two days after Mr. Bush announced the U.S. intervention,
the U.S. issued an innocuous-sounding travel warning that was
lost in the tide of crisis coverage. "The Department of State
advises that the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait may raise the risk
of terrorist incidents directed against American interests
overseas," it said, adding, "There is, however, no specific
information available at this time concerning such terrorist
operations."
   The bland announcement was the public manifestation of an
intense counterterrorism effort. Since U.S. troop deployments
began, American embassies and military bases have been told
to increase security. The FBI has stepped up surveillance in
the U.S., especially where troops and arms concentrate on
their way to the Mideast. The CIA has redoubled its detection
efforts overseas, searching for signs that Iraq-inspired
groups might be activating terror cells to kill Westerners,
incite Israel to enter the fray or destabilize Arab allies of
the U.S.
   In Washington, a little-known interagency counterterrorism
group has met frequently, sifting a surge in clandestine
information and tips, most of them of little value. Experts
from the National Security Council staff, the CIA, the FBI,
the Defense Intelligence Agency and the State Department also
confer frequently, and terrorism intelligence is a regular
part of Mr. Bush's crisis briefings.
   For most of the 1980s, Iraq wasn't a leading terror
suspect. As part of his effort to win help in the long war
against Iran, Saddam Hussein barred active terrorism out of
Baghdad in the early 1980s. Iraq was removed from the U.S.
list of terrorist states in 1982, and the next year expelled
the Abu Nidal Organization.
   Now all terrorist-trackers are focused on Baghdad again.
"We are very, very concerned," says a senior U.S.
counterterrorism official. "In the context of everything
else, it looks very ominous."
   Intelligence officials are especially concerned about the
Abu Nidal and Hezbollah groups -- proven masters of the
bloodiest and most calculated sort of terror, with experience
operating far from home.
   Abu Nidal's band had been widely reported shattered in
severe infighting that peaked last year in Libya, and Abu
Nidal himself (whose real name is Sabri al-Banna) has been
reported dead or imprisoned in Libya. But U.S. officials now
believe at least a remnant of the group has emerged in
fighting shape in Baghdad. The group had been expert at
concealing cells of killers in Europe, and U.S. intelligence
was particularly alarmed this spring at sudden signs that Abu
Nidal operatives there were stirring, traveling and holding
meetings, after long being dormant.
   French and Israeli sources go further: Both say Abu Nidal
himself is now in Baghdad. By some foreign accounts, the
terrorist chief was escorted to the Iraqi capital from Libya
by a brother of Saddam Hussein. They also note signs that
scores of PLO fighters have recently defected to Abu Nidal in
Lebanon.
   Hezbollah is doubly dangerous: It is as bloody as Abu
Nidal's band and despises the U.S., plus it holds the six
U.S. hostages in Lebanon. The key to its posture may lie in
Iran's attitude toward Iraq, and especially in the fate of
the 15 Shiite prisoners Kuwait had held. Twelve of those are
Iraqi exiles who have tried to unseat Saddam Hussein, a past
that would normally mark them for death in Iraq. But French
sources contend that all 15 have been taken to Baghdad, where
they could be used as bait to coax new anti-U.S. terrorism
from Hezbollah's Mr. Mugniyah, who holds hostages Terry
Anderson and Thomas Sutherland. U.S. intelligence is striving
to locate the 15 Shiite prisoners.
   Hussein Musawi, a Hezbollah leader, has called on
terrorists to help dislodge the U.S. from the Persian Gulf
and said that "releasing the (U.S. hostages) now would be a
reward to the Americans for their invasion of the Gulf." If
Iraq's new peace bid to Iran succeeds, the pro-Iranian
Hezbollah may take an even harder line.
   Despite the assets Saddam Hussein seems to have assembled,
he still would face several obstacles that could slow or even
stop him from moving to terrorism. One is that Syria, Iraq's
enemy and rival in the Arab world, opposes his invasion of
Kuwait and has sent troops to help keep him out of Saudi
Arabia. Many of the most radical Palestinian and Shiite
terrorists owe some allegiance to Syria, which has let them
operate from Syria or Lebanon.
   Moreover, though Saddam Hussein now portrays himself as a
Moslem seeking to oust foreign infidels, he remains
handicapped by being known as a secular Arab who spent eight
years fighting Iran, the Shiite Moslem theocracy that
inspires some of the most active Shiite terrorists.
   An additional obstacle is that most professional terrorist
acts take months to plan.
   And, of course, the biggest constraint may be the simple
fact that Saddam Hussein would have to contemplate launching
terrorism with tens of thousands of American troops on his
nation's doorstep -- a far different situation than in
earlier outbreaks of terrorism, when any U.S. forces that
could retaliate were far away.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Business Bookshelf:
   Stargazing and Other Investment Strategies
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<LP>
   You have tried bar charts, moving averages, break outs,
momentum techniques and studying the rate of growth of
earnings. Still you lose money in the market.
   Maybe your quest for stock-market success is over.
"Financial Astrology for the 1990s" (Llewellyn Publications,
349 pages, $12.95), edited by Joan McEvers, has all the
celestial keys you will ever need to unlock the door to
financial heaven. Among other things, it will help you
navigate through the tricky waters of a company buy-out.
Because it is so difficult to paraphrase this material, I
will simply quote it. The subject is the R.J. Reynolds
buy-out:
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "On October 20, 1988, RJR management announced a private
company buy-out as transiting Mercury turned direct at 11
degrees Libra conjunct natal Uranus in the 4th House and as
transiting Mars was stationing direct at 29 degrees of Pisces
in the 10th House square the 1st/7th House axis,
representative of stockholders and competition. Transiting
Saturn and Uranus had conjuncted for the last time on the 7th
House of competition on October 18, 1988, and were now
quickly heading to early degrees of Capricorn conjuncting the
7th House of competitors -- indicating a sudden change in
trade volume]" If only Shearson had gazed heavenward]
   ---
   Burton Malkiel has done it again. The fifth edition of his
book "A Random Walk Down Wall Street" (Norton, 440 pages,
$22.95) manages to scuttle some old verities and produce some
new truths. But neither of these are likely to make many
people in the securities business happy (or wealthy).
   Much of what Mr. Malkiel writes is derived from the notion
that the future price of stocks is not predictable based on
past price action nor fundamental information about a
company's projected earnings. He also levels the market
timers by offering evidence showing that, on balance, such
folks have been incorrect in allocation of assets into cash
in essentially every market cycle during the '70s and '80s.
   Mr. Malkiel believes that most investors would be better
off sticking with a variant of the strategy he proposed in
the first edition of his book: Put your money in a mutual
fund that matches a broadly diversified stock index. He
justifies this by citing various studies that would
dishearten those who make their living trying to pick
well-performing stocks.
   In the 15-year period to 1989, more than two thirds of the
professionals who manage pension-fund common stock portfolios
were outperformed by the unmanaged S&amp;P 500 stock index. He
also notes that while each year some mutual funds always
manage to beat the stock index averages, there is no
consistency to their performance. A manager who has a better
than average performance one year has only a 50% chance of
doing better than average the next.
   So Mr. Malkiel reasons that its costly to pay managers to
try to pick winning stocks for you when the evidence he has
amassed shows clearly that most of them can't. That is why he
suggests buying low-cost index mutual funds that match the
S&amp;P 500 stock index and the Wilshire 5,000 stock index. He
added the latter index in this edition because other studies
show small companies typically grow faster than larger ones.
The Wilshire index includes many smaller companies. Of
course, such a fund is slightly riskier than one that just
invests in the S&amp;P 500 stocks.
   For those who believe that they can beat the performance
of an index mutual fund Mr. Malkiel offers some advice that
also is not likely to bring cheers from anyone laboring on
Wall Street. For example, he suggests that those who trade
the least are likely to do best.
   Another useful bit of information provided is the
"life-cycle investing program," in which he outlines how
investors should change their investment strategies as they
age. In this section he makes a very telling point showing
that the risk of most investments go down the longer you own
them.
   Will Mr. Malkiel's book make you rich overnight? Not
likely. But it will provide any investor or potential
investor with all the tools he or she needs to earn at least
average returns. Considering how few professional money
managers can meet that standard it seems like a worthy goal.
   ---
   Maybe you are not quite ready to follow even Mr. Malkiel's
simple strategies -- you just want to make sense out of the
price tables in the third section of this newspaper. Gerald
Warfield's book "The Investor's Guide to Stock Quotations"
(Harper &amp; Row, 245 pages, $10.95) could be just what you need
to get started. After all, if you can't interpret the prices
how can you know if you are winning or losing?
   Even experienced investors might learn some things about
reading the price quotes from this book. For example, I would
bet that not many traders know that the fifth letter in the
symbol of an over-the-counter stock carries special meaning.
A "Q" means the company is in bankruptcy; an "E" means the
National Association of Securities Dealers has found the
company to be delinquent in filing documents with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Knowing little things
like that could be worth a lot.
   ---
   Mr. Angrist writes about the commodities and options
markets for the Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. and Others Seek Trade Solutions
   On Makers of Aircraft, Ships and Autos
   ----
   By John T. Norman
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F.ABI JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
SHIPBUILDERS OF COMMERCIAL SHIPS (SHP)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. and other major trading nations are
still seeking negotiated solutions of international trade
problems involving aircraft builders, commercial shipyards
and auto manufacturers.
   The European Community is in the center of all these
negotiations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. and EC officials say they are making progress in
negotiations on scaling down the billions of dollars in
subsidies that West Germany, France, Britain and Spain have
provided to Airbus Industrie, the Western European civil
aircraft manufacturing consortium that competes with U.S.
companies in the world market for jet airliners.
   But U.S. trade-policy officials say they haven't ruled out
the idea of asking for the appointment of a special
international panel, under the rules of the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade, to investigate the Airbus Industrie
subsidies, if it appears the EC and the U.S. can't resolve
this trade dispute through bilateral negotiations by late
next month.
   Some headway also is being made in other negotiations,
under way for more than a year within the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, on a
proposed agreement to reduce government subsidies to
commercial shipbuilders in Western Europe and Japan.
   The U.S. has been pressing for such an agreement, in
response to complaints from members of Congress and U.S.
shipyards that domestic shipbuilders can't compete for orders
against heavily subsidized shipyards in Western Europe, Japan
and South Korea.
   An international agreement to limit such subsidies may be
reached by late this year, U.S. officials say.
   The problems relating to trade in passenger autos,
particularly Japan's future exports of cars to Western
European countries, are less immediate.
   However, talks already are under way between the EC and
Japan about so-called "voluntary" restrictions on shipments
of cars made by Japanese companies to the Common Market for
five years, starting in early 1993, according to EC officials
in Washington.
   Such quota arrangements will be needed, they say, if the
EC is to persuade France, Italy and other EC countries that
they should abandon by late 1992 their own "national" quotas
on imports of Japanese cars that have been in effect for a
long while.
   Currently, the U.S. is a only an "interested bystander" to
the exploratory talks between the EC and Japan about auto
trade restrictions. This situation could change if EC
Commissioner Frans Andriessen and other Common Market
officials conclude that the EC-Japanese trade accord should
also cover cars exported by Japanese auto makers from their
U.S. assembly plants. This now seems likely.
   U.S. Trade Representive Carla Hills says any such
restriction on U.S. car exports would be unacceptable.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Agency Says Taiwan
   Sweater Sales Unfair
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Commerce Department ruled that
manufacturers in Taiwan have exported sweaters to the U.S. at
prices about 21.4% below "fair value."
   If the U.S. International Trade Commission concludes later
that the imports have injured domestic manufacturers of
man-made fiber sweaters, the government will order extra
duties under the Anti-Dumping Act to offset the price
margins.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ITC is expected to issue its final decision in the
next few weeks on whether anti-dumping duties are required on
sweater imports from South Korea and Hong Kong, as well as
from Taiwan.
   According to the ITC, imports of man-made fiber sweaters
from all three Asian suppliers totaled nearly $1 billion last
year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Appalachian Clan
   Of Retailers Mixes
   Polo and Polyester
   ---
   Dawahare Family Disputes
   Anything, Even the Name
   Of an Uncle, but Thrives
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   LEXINGTON, Ky. -- Listen to the dark-suited Dawahare boys,
Appalachia's leading local retailers, as they huddle around
an oval table to discuss store strategy and other hot topics.
   A.F. wants to know how much he should risk on the horse
races. Oscar Dee bemoans his latest gardening injury. Frank
proposes licensing Casper the Friendly Ghost T-shirts. All
bicker about what's for lunch.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Fifth Avenue, they'd probably draw snickers. But the
Dawahares (pronounced Daw-Hairs) have made a success out of
retailing by not acting like the hotshots; they don't even go
into Chapter 11. For the six Dawahare brothers and their 26
clothing, furniture and discount stores in Appalachia,
long-term planning means finding out if everybody is coming
to work next Monday. Satisfying a range of customers means
pairing $999 fur coats with $29.99 rayon pant-suits.
   Yet Wall Street analysts admire the Dawahares' mountain
moxie and their talent for survival in a troubled retail
climate. The Dawahares are "people who live and die by the
business -- and are right there, not in New York or Chicago,"
says Barry Bryant, a retail analyst at Prudential-Bache
Securities. "They have a better idea of what locals want."
   Fifty-seven-year-old A.F. Dawahare, the youngest brother
and president of privately owned Dawahare's Inc., admits: "I
never thought we'd outlast Federated." That's the
Bloomingdale's parent that fell into the hands of Campeau
Corp. two years ago and has since sought protection from
creditors in Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy act.
   Even some of the brothers' brash children, impatiently
awaiting their turn at the helm, wonder how in the world the
business has managed to survive. "When I first started
working here, I asked where's the budget and was told there
wasn't one," says 28-year-old Frank Dawahare, district
manager for three eastern Kentucky stores. But the hardest
part of the job, he says, is taking orders from relatives.
"They ride you up one side and down the other," he says.
   The simplest matters ignite sibling rivalry. Joseph
Kawaja, son of a Dawahare sister, says his uncle Hoover gave
him $51 as a graduation present just to outdo uncle A.F.'s
gift by $1. "My brothers are like a bunch of wild horses,"
says A.F.
   Mostly they bicker over what to put in their stores and
whom to sell to. "Everybody who walks past the door is a
customer," contends the senior Frank Dawahare. Brother A.F.
disagrees: "Successful stores target a market," he snaps.
"I've been trying to convince you of that for 30 years,
Frank."
   The stores' racks reflect the Dawahares' divergent views.
At Dawahare's in Pikeville, Ky., shoppers find everything
from blue jeans to pumps with gold lame bows. The children's
department features black leather miniskirts in toddler sizes
for $39.99. In Lexington, men's polyester suits compete for
rack space with Ralph Lauren Polo displays, where argyle
socks go for $11 a pair.
   Yet the eclecticism seems to work in the boom-and-bust
coal fields, where shoppers splurge on big-ticket items when
they're working and go discount when they're laid off.
Besides, how many other major retailers would be likely to
open a store in Whitesburg, Ky., with a population of 1,500?
In some towns, Dawahare's has little competition.
   The clan has hung together since 1912, when S.F. and Selma
Dawahare, both immigrants from Damascus, met at a Syrian
singles dance and were married in New York City. They moved
to eastern Kentucky so S.F. could work as a peddler in the
coal fields. The coal business boomed, and S.F. opened his
first Dawahare's store in East Jenkins, Ky. Revenues and
children multiplied.
   Fond of their new homeland, S.F. and Selma named several
of their eight sons after U.S. presidents. There were Woodrow
Wilson, Warren G. Harding and Hoover Dawahare. Hoover, born
on Election Day in 1928, almost became Al Smith Dawahare, but
his parents held off naming him until a week after the
election, when the news of Herbert Hoover's victory reached
the Kentucky hollows.
   The origin of A.F.'s name, like other family matters, is
in dispute. Nellie Dawahare Kawaja and her brother A.F. say
it's short for Atta Fadallah, after two uncles. But Hoover
snaps: "Damn it, Nellie, it means After Frank. He was born
after his brother Frank." Says another sibling: "No, it means
After FDR." The debate continues for 10 minutes.
   Despite their penchant for arguing, S.F. always told his
eight sons to stick together. He wanted the company's
ownership divided among them with each inheriting one store,
but there weren't enough stores to go around when he died in
1951. Two sons have died since. His three daughters were told
to find husbands. They got a minority interest in the firm
and have little say in business matters. "If that would
happen today, there's no way we'd put up with it," Nellie
says.
   The daughters share equally in the family's real-estate
holdings, which bring an income of about $1 million a year.
The stores are earning a total of $300,000 or so a year on
sales that have recently ranged between $30 million and $40
million. A.F. says profits should improve this year.
   Some brothers have run stores while others have tended
departments in the larger Lexington stores. Hoover says the
clothing business took too much time from his real passion,
politics, so he persuaded his brothers to open a
less-demanding furniture chain for him to head.
   A former state representative from Letcher County, Hoover
is best remembered for the day he stood on his desk and
screamed so the house speaker would call on him during a
debate on coal taxes. Guards were called to drag him out.
   Frank is considered the most eccentric of the bunch. One
of his ideas is to convert Casper the Friendly Ghost or a
likeness of Art Buchwald into T-shirts or other merchandise
for the stores. So far nothing has come of it, but his
brothers humor him: "Who knows, maybe he could've come up
with the Simpsons," says A.F. Frank is credited with the
sharpest flair for fashion; he has stocked $12.50 paisley
ties in the men's department.
   A.F., the president, isn't quite sure why he got the job.
"What can I do with these older brothers?" he laments. "The
responsibility was forced on me." One advantage: He has two
degrees from Harvard.
   The brothers are uniformly penny-pinching. The executive
suite is the cluttered second floor of a Lexington store.
Some share offices with other employees. There are no
executive bonuses.
   Threadbare rugs in the Pikeville store have stains from a
leaky roof. Clothing racks are marked with hand-lettered
signs or plain beige "Sale" or "Clearance" cards. "We really
need to remodel," says Richard Dawahare, Woodrow's son.
   A.F. admits he has become a stickler about spending as he
observes the carnage throughout the retail industry. "The
bedrock of our industry has been crushed," he says. He is
pushing for "revolutionary changes," such as sticking to a
budget.
   A.F. also is testing a new advertising and promotion
campaign. The slogan: When you look good, you feel good. "Do
you think that's too corny?" he asks.
   The company has been approached about selling out, perhaps
going public. All offers have been rebuffed. Some suggest
that the brothers might sell eventually, or that an outsider
could become the next president when A.F. steps down. Younger
kin are anxiously waiting to see a succession plan. "It's a
very emotional issue," says Jimmy Dawahare, A.F.'s son.
   Educated at the best schools, some Dawahare offspring are
lawyers, accountants and fashion designers by training. Many
have worked for Macy's and other large retailers before
returning to the family business. Yearning for the chance to
do it their way, they've formed a cousins' committee to plot
strategy.
   "Wasn't it Napoleon who said the worst plan executed to
its fullest is better than no plan at all?" Jimmy Dawahare
asks. Cousin Richard replies: "Yeah, but remember, Jimmy,
Napoleon finally got his butt kicked."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Imports of Steel
   Were Stable in June
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- U.S. imports of steel-mill products in June
were virtually the same as in May, but fell 5.4% from the
year-earlier month, according to an American Iron and
Institute compilation of Commerce Department figures.
   Imports in June totaled 1,466,413 tons, compared with
1,455,803 tons in May and 1,549,428 tons in June 1989, the
trade group said. For the first six months of 1990, imports
fell 9.2% to 7,896,842 tons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Steel exports fell to 317,750 tons in June from 351,964
tons in May and 403,278 tons in the year-earlier month.
   Steel imports for the first nine months of the federal
government's Voluntary Restraint Agreement accounted for 17%
of total steel consumption, below the 19.1% target, according
to the American Institute for International Steel Inc., a
trade group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Survival Technology Reacts Fast to Middle East Crisis
   ----
   By Eugene Carlson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   SURV
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   BETHESDA, Md. -- Many small defense contractors think the
Middle East crisis will bring them more business. But few
have felt the impact as swiftly as Survival Technology Inc.
   A year ago, Survival Technology was headed toward failure.
James H. Miller, the health-care executive recruited to turn
the company around, was sure that a return to profitability
meant cutting back heavily on the company's reliance on
Pentagon contracts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Enter Saddam Hussein.
   Following the Iraqi president's invasion of Kuwait, the
Defense Department last week doubled an earlier $1 million
order for one of Survival Technology's key products, a small
injection kit that soldiers and civilians can use to
temporarily counter the deadly effects of nerve gas.
   The Pentagon also asked that the delivery date of the
chemical warfare antidotes be speeded up by two months.
Meanwhile, Survival Technology's telephone has been ringing
"nonstop" from overseas allies asking for product pricing and
delivery information, says Mr. Miller, the company's chief
executive officer.
   Though the sudden surge of demand may be short-lived, it
gives the company a boost while it pursues its turnaround
strategy. The situation required some scrambling, but the
company's response shows how fast a small business can react.
   The 32-year-old company is the only U.S. producer of
self-injection kits to counter nerve-gas effects. A soldier
exposed to the gas pushes a vial the size of a ball-point pen
against his thigh and a spring-loaded one-inch needle shoots
two milligrams of atropine into his muscle. This is followed
by a larger, spring-loaded dose of Pralidoxime Chloride.
   Survival Technology also packages injectable antidotes for
allergies, bee stings, and attacks of heart arrhythmia.
   The crisis has brought unexpected excitement to Survival
Technology's modern brick headquarters on a shady side street
in suburban Washington, D.C., and to its manufacturing
facility in St. Louis. Employees have volunteered to work
weekends. The price of the company's stock, traded over the
counter, jumped $5 after the invasion to $15.50 a share
before settling back to what Mr. Miller terms a "more
realistic" $13 level Friday.
   The company shifted gears quickly as the crisis developed.
After the unexpected invasion of Kuwait, company officials
called contacts in the Defense Department and in the Persian
Gulf, asking about their inventories of nerve gas antidotes.
   "Then we contacted all our vendors to accelerate
deliveries," Mr. Miller says. "We didn't have the order yet
but in my judgment we were going to get it. Then we called
our director of manufacturing in St. Louis and asked him to
run three or four scenarios on how we could produce the
{added} product while maintaining our commercial business."
The whole process took two days.
   "In a small business, you don't have any political
issues," he adds. "You call together your team and if they
think it's a good idea, you just do it."
   Mr. Miller stresses that the Persian Gulf military buildup
hasn't "saved" Survival Technology, which has had losses in
five of the last six years. The Pentagon order isn't likely
to be repeated soon, since barring a chemical warfare attack,
the injection kits will remain unused in the military supply
system. Each unit has a shelf life of five years.
   The Pentagon order "will provide a boost in revenue for
maybe one quarter," says Mr. Miller, acknowledging that the
short-term revenue boost comes from the very sector he
designated for cutback. Survival Technology's long-term
health depends on cost-cutting and lots more civilian
pharmaceutical sales, he insists.
   Mr. Miller, 52 years old, was an executive vice president
at Beecham Inc. before being hired a year ago by Survival
Technology's founder, Stanley Sarnoff. Dr. Sarnoff, who died
this summer, was an eminent cardiologist and prolific
inventor. He held 49 patents, including one for the automatic
injector that is the basis of Survival Technology's business.
   Mr. Miller says Dr. Sarnoff once told him: "I was so
enthralled with science that I should have paid more
attention to business." Without the restructuring away from
heavy reliance on defense contracts and a purge of top
management, Mr. Miller says the company would have failed.
   Mr. Miller says the company, which employs about 400
workers, will probably be in the black in the current quarter
ending Oct. 31, when earnings are normally depressed. In the
corresponding quarter a year earlier, the company posted a
$1.5 million loss. For the nine months ended April 30,
Survival Technology had a $801,000 loss on sales of $12.6
million, compared with a net loss of $1.3 million on sales of
$12.3 million in the year-earlier period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Guardian Bancorp Stock Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   GB
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Guardian Bancorp said directors authorized
the repurchase of as many as 300,000 shares of the company's
common in the open market or private transactions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Soviets' Big Aspirin Headache
   ----
   By P.J. Wingate
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<LP>
   I met Boris Roshnikoff a few months ago browsing in a
drugstore in Wilmington, Del., where I had gone to buy a
bottle of aspirin. He was standing in front of a shelf filled
with various brands of headache tablets and was writing in a
small notebook.
   "Excuse me, sir," he said after I had made my choice, "but
why did you choose one of the most expensive brands of
aspirin on display here?"
</LP>
<TEXT>
   His question startled me, but his manner was so courteous
and his accent such an intriguing mixture of Oxford English
and Slavic overtones that I answered, explaining that I
always bought the more expensive brand because it contained
an agent to neutralize the aspirin, which can irritate the
stomachs of some people.
   "Are you a chemist?" he asked. When I admitted that I was,
he closed his notebook and launched into a series of
questions about the chemical composition of aspirin tablets.
I finally broke in with a question of my own.
   "Why are you so interested in aspirin?"
   "I am a Russian," he replied, "and I came over here with
one of the advance groups which preceded President
Gorbachev's summit visit. I wanted to look at the aspirin
situation in the U.S. because we seem to have a perpetual
shortage of it in the small town where I live. I found that
there is a plentiful supply of aspirin in Washington, and it
comes in all sorts of packages and under a dozen or two name
brands. So when I got the chance to visit an old friend here
in Wilmington I decided to see how the supply was in a small
town."
   It occurred to me that Delaware's largest city is not
exactly a country village, but it also occurred to me that
you probably could find a dozen or so brands of aspirin in
just about every American country village; even a crossroads
filling station is likely to carry three or four brands. So I
said nothing about community size. Instead, I complimented
him on his excellent English and continued our conversation
about aspirin.
   "It is always available in Moscow," he said of the elusive
pain killer, "and my neighbors asked me so often during the
past year to bring them some that I finally asked a deputy
minister of supply if there was a national shortage. He said
he had not heard of any and that the same amount had been
produced during each of the past three years, and all of it
had been distributed. But his records did not show where it
had been shipped."
   He asked me how many brands of aspirin we had in the U.S.
I told him it might run as high as a hundred or two hundred,
since I knew that most chains and some individual stores sold
their own special brands. He carefully recorded this
information in his notebook, which contained a list of the
brands of aspirin he had discovered.
   "Do all these stores and chains manufacture aspirin?" he
asked.
   "No," I told him. "There probably are only four or five
producers of aspirin in the country and they sell to the many
others who buy in bulk for compounding and conversion to
tablets or capsules. Sometimes the basic manufacturers do
everything, including putting the tablets into bottles, while
the company which sells to the public provides nothing except
the labels."
   "Does the government run controls on all these hundred or
so different brands and see that the supply is adequate for
each brand all over the country?"
   I said I was sure the government did nothing to prevent
shortages and that the quality and supply of aspirin were
backed only by the efforts of the many companies out to make
a profit.
   A few minutes later, Mr. Roshnikoff and I parted company,
and I presume he is back in Russia now. But his questions
made me think, and on reflection I'm sure I was too
conservative in my estimate of how many brands of aspirin are
sold here. There are probably several hundred brands in any
big city alone, since a great many stores carry "generic
aspirin" under their own labels. All told, there may be more
than a thousand brands of aspirin available one place or
another in the U.S. I wish I had told him that.
   I wish even more that I had told him that if the
production and distribution of aspirin were turned over to
just one government agency in Washington, D.C., the American
bureaucracy would soon find a way to have every one of the
thousand brands of aspirin in short supply. This is the
economic lesson I hope Mr. Roshnikoff took home with him.
   ---
   Mr. Wingate nurses his occasional headaches in Wilmington,
Del.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Taiwan Trade With China
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TAIPEI -- Taiwan's indirect trade with China via Hong Kong
gained 4.6% to $1.83 billion during the first half of the
year from $1.75 billion a year earlier, the Board of Foreign
Trade reported.
   Taiwan's exports to China totaled $1.48 billion between
January and June, against $1.45 billion a year earlier.
Taiwan's imports from China climbed 18% to $349 million from
$295.7 million a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ferro Sees Gain
   In Bid to Solve
   Its Problem
   ---
   Firm Says Second-Half Net
   Will Top First Half's
   Barring War in Mideast
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4B
</SO>
<CO>
   FOE
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- Ferro Corp. is making progress in overcoming
the three unrelated problems that cut first-half profit 49%,
Adolph Posnick, chairman and chief executive officer, said.
Barring a war in the Middle East, Ferro's second-half profit
will exceed the first half's, he said.
   Meanwhile, the global producer of specialty coatings,
plastics and chemicals is building a base for sharply higher
profit in the next few years, he said in an interview.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ferro obtains more than half its sales and over 75% of its
profit abroad. Domestic profit margins are lower than those
abroad, partly because the company incurs most product
development expense in the U.S. Successful products are
exported to foreign markets, and some eventually are produced
abroad.
   That global strategy offers great growth opportunity as
trade barriers decline around the world, Mr. Posnick said. He
said Europe's prospects are especially promising for the
1990s, but many developing countries where Ferro does
business also are likely to fare better than they did in the
1980s. However, operating in 22 countries also exposes the
company to numerous foreign problems, such as Brazil's
economic turmoil this year.
   Mr. Posnick didn't make a specific second-half earnings
forecast, but he said management doesn't quarrel with analyst
estimates that Ferro will earn $1.50 to $1.70 a share for the
full year. That would indicate second-half net of 91 cents to
$1.11 a share, compared with $1.07 a share for the 1989
second half.
   In 1989, Ferro earned $49.7 million, or $2.25 a share, on
sales of $1.08 billion.
   First-half net fell to $13.1 million, or 59 cents a share,
from $25.5 million, or $1.19 a share, a year earlier. Sales
rose slightly, to $561.8 million from $546.9 million.
   The company sustained losses in Brazil in the first half
because government efforts to fight inflation practically
brought the economy to a halt last spring, Mr. Posnick said.
Start-up costs of a specialty chemicals plant in France also
cut into Ferro's first-half profit. And the company had lower
earnings from specialty plastics, mainly because of lower
shipments and weaker prices for reinforced plastics sold to
the auto industry.
   First-half profit would have been more than twice as high
if it hadn't been for those three problems, Mr. Posnick said.
   Ferro so far has felt little impact from the Iraqi
invasion of Kuwait, Mr. Posnick said. The company has no
plants and only limited sales in those two countries.
Eventually, higher oil prices probably will push up the cost
of basic plastic resins and other raw materials, said Albert
C. Bersticker, president and chief operating officer.
However, that hasn't happened so far. In fact, resin
producers in recent weeks failed in several efforts to raise
prices, Mr. Bersticker said.
   Ferro closed four of its five Brazilian plants for a time
last spring when the government was trying to wring inflation
out of the economy, Mr. Posnick said. The plants currently
are operating at 60% to 70% of capacity, and Brazilian
operations will earn a small profit for the third quarter, he
said. Ferro is optimistic about the longer-term outlook for
its businesses in Brazil, he added.
   It appears that the governments of Brazil, Argentina,
Venezuela and Mexico are making headway in their battle with
high debt, government deficits and inflation, Mr. Posnick
said. They're also opening up their economies to world trade.
Those trends, if continued, will make Ferro's Latin American
operations increasingly profitable, he said. Ferro obtained
nearly 12% of its sales and about 25% of its profit in Latin
America during 1988 and 1989.
   Ferro's plant start-up expense in France is an investment
to prepare for the 1992 breakdown of remaining trade barriers
across most of Western Europe, Mr. Posnick said. Ferro
previously supplied specialty chemicals to European customers
from small plants in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom
and from U.S. facilities, Mr. Posnick said. Early in 1989,
Ferro bought a larger plant in southern France, which has
capacity to supply all of Europe, and has since closed the
two small plants.
   Ferro's French facility is producing additives for fuels
and lubricants. Eventually it also will make additives for
polymers, such as stabilizers and flame retardants for
plastic compounds, said Mr. Bersticker. Start-up has been
slowed by the need to qualify each of the products with
European officials.
   The plant should be profitable for the fourth quarter, Mr.
Posnick said, and longer term it will be a major profit
contributor. The facility is located in an area that has good
access to feedstocks, and it has an excellent incinerator for
disposal of wastes, giving it a competitive advantage, Mr.
Bersticker said.
   Ferro's U.S. specialty plastics business was hurt by the
automotive slowdown, which reduced sales and resulted in
price cutting by competitors fighting for the remaining
business, Mr. Bersticker said. In addition, the company
incurred some unusual costs as it refocused the plastics
operation toward more value-added products, and closed three
small plants.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Washington's Press Corps Tests
   An Old Motto: E Pluribus Unum
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Suppose Jesse Jackson gave a news conference
and nobody came?
   It almost happened last week. Last Monday, the magnetic
civil rights leader and Democratic presidential hopeful set a
briefing at the Resolution Trust Corp. on how the savings and
loan bailout agency should do more for minorities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One lonely reporter showed up.
   It's not that the Jackson press availability was inside
information. Staffers of his Rainbow Coalition manned the
phones in the morning to call reporters about the 4:15 p.m.
news conference, and a notice was sent out on the news wires.
   That afternoon, this Wall Street Journal reporter walked
over to the RTC headquarters and milled around the lobby --
alone, but for a few Jackson aides. With the news conference
about 15 minutes overdue, one Jackson aide asked what
newspaper the sole reporter was from. She scurried off to
tell Mr. Jackson, then returned to say he would appear
shortly.
   After another 15 minutes, Mr. Jackson emerged, looking a
tad disappointed at the one-man crowd. Even his affinity for
alliteration seemed a bit off: He said he sought the "Three
A's" from the RTC: "access, a positive attitude and
acquisitions." But it was more like two A's and a P.
   Minority contractors and investors, he said in response to
questions from the assembled press, weren't getting enough of
the "fallout of the bailout." Those who were "locked out of
the loans have also been locked out of the bailout." After
three minutes, he rushed off to his car.
   Mr. Jackson's aides blamed the poor turnout on competing
news events: Washington Mayor Marion Barry, fresh from a
cocaine-possession conviction and a hung jury on other
drug-related charges, was changing his party affiliation so
he could run for a city council seat. And even the S&amp;L
scandal paled next to the Iraqi crisis. Or maybe it was just
the heat and humidity of a Washington August that kept
reporters from making the trip. (The news conference was held
just two blocks from the Journal's office here.)
   The afternoon wasn't a total waste for Mr. Jackson,
however. He also met with William Seidman, the RTC's head,
who says the meeting was "very productive."
   Mr. Jackson seems to have regained his drawing power. A
breakfast for reporters later last week -- with discussion
not limited to S&amp;Ls -- drew an overflow crowd.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mortgage Rates Dropped
   Last Week, Survey Says
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   BUTLER, N.J. -- Mortgage rates dipped last week, according
to a national survey of 2,000 lending institutions.
   Thirty-year, fixed-rate mortgages declined to an average
10.14% in the week ended Friday, from 10.17% the previous
week. That compares with an average of 10.16% one month ago,
and 10.2% last year, said Paul Havemann, vice president of
HSH Associates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Adjustable-rate mortgages "have fared pretty well too,"
declining to an average 8.19% last week from 8.21% the
previous week, Mr. Havemann said. That is well below the
average 8.37% the previous month and 8.63% a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View:
   If Markets Are Jittery, Maybe It's Deja Vu
   ----
   By George Melloan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PETROLEUM (PET)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Markets world-wide -- in securities, precious metals,
currencies and commodities -- reacted to the Persian Gulf
crisis the way markets usually react to crisis, with big
price swings. Traders first sought refuge in the dollar. Then
they had second thoughts and the dollar went limp again,
falling last week through a series of new lows against the
German mark. Tokyo's Nikkei index bounced like a yo-yo,
reflecting Japan's nervousness about its dependence on
Persian Gulf oil and continuing distortions in stock and
property values.
   But anyone who thinks all this was capricious should
perhaps take time to ponder how such price movements come
about. Imagine, if you will, many millions of the most
complex analog computers -- that is, human brains --
operating in all parts of the world. Each compares data
coming in by newspaper, TV, radio, telephone, newswires or
what have you with the analogs in their memory banks,
recollections of similar events. Out of that comparative
analysis comes many millions of decisions -- to buy, sell or
stand pat. They feed back into trading rooms around the globe
through an electronic neural network that is itself global.
The resulting trades set prices, which are in turn fed back
out again -- through this newspaper, the AP-Dow Jones wire
service or other media -- to those same living analog
computers. The process adjusts prices, guiding productive
resources toward uses of the highest value.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In other words, the collective wisdom of the world is
applied instantaneously and with infinite repetition to the
task of placing a value on all the great multitude of items
traded in global markets, whether they be orange juice
futures, U.K. gilts, Swiss francs, or shares in Exxon. What
this vast global computer was telling us late last week,
after many fluctuations, was that crude oil should be about
$12 a barrel higher than its price before Saddam Hussein
seized Kuwait, that gold should be about $45 an ounce more
and the U.S. dollar was not enjoying great favor.
   By all three measurements the U.S. dollar was weak. It
would buy less gold, less oil and fewer marks. It is true
that other currencies, including the mark, also would buy
less gold and less oil, but the position of the dollar is of
broader interest. Most international trading is denominated
in dollars. Large entities, such as central banks,
multinational corporations and investment funds around the
world have big dollar accounts or big investments in
dollar-denominated securities.
   For that reason, U.S. monetary management in the wake of
the Saddam takeover has an importance to the world that
parallels the importance of how well George Bush and his
administration manage the politics and military strategy
involved in putting Mr. Hussein out of business. That places
a considerable burden on the U.S. political system. If the
world lacks confidence in the ability of the U.S. political
system to deal with economic crises, the historical record of
the 1970s may be the reason.
   For anyone with a long memory, the reaction of some
Americans to the UN embargo on Saddam's oil is cause for
jitters. Multinational oil companies -- slathered and
demagogued unmercifully by politicians and cartoonists
throughout the 1970s -- once again are in the spotlight,
accused of profiteering on Persian Gulf uncertainties. Oil
companies like to make profits when they can, but it is
amazing how much more difficult that was for them in the
free-market 1980s than in the heavily regulated 1970s. That
empirical knowledge, however, doesn't impede politicians who
see accusations of profiteering as vote-getters. They are
clearly having thoughts about reregulating, thwarting the
natural workings of the market. Should they do that, disaster
will inevitably follow.
   That is exactly what happened at the beginning of the
1970s decade. It all began with a soft dollar, brought about
by the presumed necessity for the U.S. Federal Reserve to
finance Lyndon Johnson's 1960s spending spree. He had
insisted on a costly "war on poverty" while at the same time
financing an expensive shooting war in Vietnam. The
outpouring of dollars crashed the Bretton Woods international
monetary system and embarked the U.S. on an inflationary
course.
   Richard Nixon, LBJ's successor, applied the worst possible
remedy, price controls, under prodding by Democrats
controlling the House of Representatives. The groundwork was
thus laid for the "energy crises" of the 1970s. They were in
fact crises self-inflicted by misguided monetary policy and
economic regulation.
   With the Fed pumping out dollars and prices held down by
law, U.S. producers, including producers of fuel, were caught
in a squeeze. Inflation was pushing up demand and costs, but
legislated ceilings prevented prices from responding. As a
result, producers curtailed output. Oil and gas wells were
"shut in." The result was the oil price explosion of 1973, on
a scale no cartel could possibly have produced -- even though
OPEC still is blamed for it. A nation consuming one third of
the world's oil had simply pumped up demand and curtailed
production simultaneously.
   Incredibly, that explosion convinced Congress that energy
price controls should remain on, not be taken off. They did
remain, with further turmoil, until 1981. In that year, the
combination of price deregulation and a vigorous
anti-inflation policy by the Fed sent oil prices into a
tailspin. That forced oil companies back into competition,
which caused them far more trauma than they had suffered
during the 1970s period of inflation and rigged markets.
   So if markets are nervous about the dollar today, there is
good reason. The U.S. polity learned a lot in the 1980s. The
world has changed as well, with nuclear power and high-tech
industry making the production of modern industrial nations
less sensitive to oil price changes. But there still are a
lot of people -- many of them in important roles in
Washington -- who think that price controls were the correct
response to OPEC in the 1970s and who might presumably think
that they are the correct response to Saddam Hussein and
gyrations in the oil market today. Further, the United States
seems to have a Treasury that believes -- against all
evidence available from Japan and Germany -- that a soft
currency is a good thing. Although dollar devaluation has not
cured the U.S. trade deficit after five years, there still is
the touching belief that some day it will. Finally, the U.S.
has an LBJ-style Congress that thinks if the U.S. can't
inflate its way to greater prosperity, surely it can do it
with massive federal spending.
   We've been down this track before, but many people have
forgotten the lessons. The reaction of world markets to the
Persian Gulf crisis suggests however that the vast global
computer that runs all markets has those lessons stored
somewhere in its memory banks and is discounting the dollar
accordingly.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Koala Technologies
   Taps Stephen Russo
   To Be Chief Executive
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   KOA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   FREMONT, Calif. -- Stephen J. Russo, 34 years old, was
named president and chief executive officer of Koala
Technologies Corp., succeeding Douglas W. Kenny, who is 45.
   Mr. Kenny, according to a company press release,
attributed his resignation to a dispute with the board over
the future direction of the company. Mr. Kenny couldn't be
reached for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Russo, formerly chief financial officer of the
plastics and electronics company, said the dispute focused on
future acquisitions strategy. He said the board favored a
focus on Koala's core plastics business, while its former
president favored acquisitions in the field of electronics,
Mr. Russo said.
   The company posted third-quarter net income of $179,200,
or one cent a share, compared with a year-earlier loss of
$137,800, or one cent a share. Sales rose to $2.6 million
from $2.5 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Beer Shipments
   Increased 1.8%
   In the First Half
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   MO ACCOB BUD
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   After nearly a decade of stagnating sales, domestic
beer-maker shipments rose 1.8% in the first half to 95.5
million barrels from 93.7 million a year earlier.
   In the past 12 months, beer shipments rose more than 1.5%,
according to figures released by the Beer Institute, an
industry information and lobbying group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The increases in consumption may have been even greater,
said Jerry Steinman, publisher of Beer Marketer's Insights,
because the shipments don't reflect a decline in
Anheuser-Busch Cos.' wholesaler inventories. In addition,
Adolph Coors Co. had to limit production of some of its
packages because of capacity constraints.
   After years of seeing a large chunk of the consuming
public shift allegiance to wine and other drinks with more
cachet and fewer calories, the first-half spurt came as a
welcome relief. At least one industry analyst thinks the
turnaround may be related to changing perceptions of beer.
   "People are getting smarter and drinking more beer," said
Mr. Steinman. "With all this talk of moderation, people
recognize that when you consume beer, you consume alcohol
more slowly, so it's the drink of moderation."
   Most analysts, however, attribute the growth to better
marketing and the increasing variety of beers produced by the
major brewers.
   "There's more excitement today in the beer industry," said
Michael Bellas, president of Beverage Marketing Inc., a New
York consulting firm. "The brewers are doing more
sophisticated market segmentation with interesting new
products in drafts and drys. And the consumer is trying
them."
   Mr. Bellas said that new beers -- such as Coors's
Keystone, Miller Genuine Draft, Busch Draft Light and Bud Dry
-- led the growth in the second quarter, along with the three
top-selling light beers, Miller Lite, Coors Light and Bud
Light. "The industry is broadening its consumer base," he
said.
   But analysts cautioned that it's too early to tell whether
consumers' fascination with these new brands will continue.
The shipment numbers may be swollen by consumers' curiosity
over new brands, said Emanuel Goldman, analyst at PaineWebber
Inc. "You won't know where we are until the end of the year."
   The growth spurt "doesn't compare with the roaring years
of wine coolers or the growth rates for wine in the 1970s,"
Mr. Goldman said. In the mid-70s, wine consumption grew 5% to
10% each year.
   The first-half numbers also indicated that the rich are
getting richer in the beer business, while the poor are
getting poorer. The three biggest brewers, Anheuser-Busch,
Adolph Coors and Philip Morris Cos.' Miller Brewing Co.,
shipped 3.6 million more barrels in the first half than a
year earlier, sopping up about 1.9 million barrels in sales
lost by declining brewers, such as G. Heileman Brewing Co.
and Stroh Brewery Co., according to Mr. Steinman's estimates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   Evening the Score of Caveat Emptor
   ----
   By Hugh Aaron
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<LP>
   After reading Bryan Jamison's July 30 Manager's Journal on
the vicissitudes of trying to buy a small business, I, as a
one time seller, feel compelled to offer a view from the
other side.
   For three years our employee-owned plastics processing
company of 60 souls was courted by scores of business brokers
and "interested parties" large and small, rich and poor,
responsible and wild, sincere and just curious. Eventually we
grew weary of the strain of baring our audited figures,
customer lists and manufacturing facilities. Most lookers
were seeking the impossible: a guaranteed future of
ever-increasing sales and profits to the end of time. Then,
as we were about to give up, serendipity intervened: The
right outfit came along from out of nowhere.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Our 20-year-old company prepared a bound sheaf explaining
virtually anything a buyer would want to know about us --
including an unadulterated history, graphs of the industry's
fortunes over the same period, quarter-by-quarter financial
statements, 10 years of audited figures, a business biography
of each staff member, and five years of "realistic" sales and
profit projections. Even so, after flying thousands of miles,
often in corporate jets, most prospective buyers who sat in
my office to make a deal were more often than not
disbelieving, suspicious, or at best, skeptical. A few
secretly questioned my employees to find out whether I told
the truth.
   Virtually every prospective buyer asked the same three
questions:
   -- Why are you selling if the company is doing so well?
   During the most recent five years sales grew at a 10% rate
with profits at 12% to 15% on sales. I was approaching 60
(but looking younger) and ready to retire with no family to
take over. In the event of my death my wife was ill-fitted to
run the company. Nor would she do as well selling it as I
hoped I would. To those who seemed unconvinced, I bluntly
added that the right time to sell is at the highest point,
while the company is prospering. This always worked.
   -- Wouldn't the company fall apart without you at the
helm?
   For the prior three years a capable, well-organized staff
made all the day-to-day decisions without my guidance. I
confined myself to major policy and keeping track of morale.
But no one bought my story. How could I prove that in
preparing for a future sale I had succeeded in making myself
almost superfluous?
   -- The third question, really a series of related
questions, would arrive late in the exploratory process. How
firm is the asking price? (Answer: fairly firm.) Will you
take paper? (Answer: no.) Will you stay aboard and accept a
salary as part of the deal? (Answer: no.)
   Buyers tend to dance around the core questions. Bring them
up at the beginning and buyers will change the subject. But
when they're finally asked and must be addressed, the
dreamers and bargain hunters reveal themselves.
   Mr. Jamison discusses the "exorbitant asking price"
according to "the more than meets the eye approach." But the
right price is not the same to every buyer. A perceived need
adds to value. Our asking price was based on the prevailing
industry multiple, as best we could determine, of the average
of our past five years' after-tax earnings. Fair, rational,
like the stock market? Yet it really bothered me that many
offers were made based on book value alone, as if the
intangibles -- such as the struggle to build an organization,
our years of trial and error, our technical expertise, our
reputation and industry contacts, our unique culture --
didn't count.
   Oh, there were some who yearned to own "a gem, a find, an
ideal fit" like us. They wooed us over a dozen visits, and
besieged us daily on the phone, yet couldn't bring themselves
to commit.
   When an owner tells Mr. Jamison, "the business really
makes a lot more money than what is shown on the statements,
but he or she wants to keep taxes down so not everything gets
reported," he may well be telling the truth. Many
small-business owners whisper to friends that they've cheated
the IRS out of fortunes. Common ploys are to expense what
should be capitalized or have maintenance employees do
repairs on your home.
   What constitutes the true profit figure? That is typically
the most controversial question. Being closely held, we were
in the habit of keeping our bottom line to a minimum to avoid
-- for one thing -- doubly taxed dividends. Therefore, we
distributed a share of our pre-tax profits (beyond that which
we retained for reinvestment and operating capital) as
salaries and production incentive bonuses, and as
contributions to the employee stock ownership plan (ESOP).
But we failed to convince most prospects that such sums
would, under their circumstances, drop to the bottom line
rather than appear as costs. Yet they had to admit that a
division vice president could be hired to run the company for
less than half my salary.
   Mr. Jamison's negative experience with brokers is exactly
opposite to ours. The ones we encountered were sophisticated,
supportive and realistic. They usually brought forth
candidates who were a feasible fit and who professed a
willingness to consider our terms. Only one broker, whom we
refused, wanted a ridiculous up-front fee without even a
guarantee of performance. And one persisted in smoking cigars
in my office despite a posted "Thank you for not smoking"
sign.
   How ironic that the valid buyer who finally appeared
turned out to be a neighbor. No broker was involved. The deal
actually was born three years earlier when by chance I
happened to meet the chairman of a semi-competitive company
at a local lunch counter. If ever I decided to sell I should
look him up, he said. At the time it was out of the question,
and I forgot our discussion.
   But he hadn't. And when the word of our interest in
selling reached him, he sent his emissary. After three months
of relaxed and free-wheeling negotiation, I discovered what
our real priorities were. We found ourselves more flexible
about price than we anticipated. Indeed, the structure of the
deal, the fact that it would be for cash -- a stock, not an
asset, purchase -- that the factory building would go with
the business at a fair price, and that the buyer intended to
retain all employees and invest in the acquisition rather
than exploit it as a cash cow, these conditions turned out to
be as important as price. After both parties compromised on
the final figure the deal was done in less than a month.
   Good luck, Mr. Jamison, in your search. And expect to be
surprised.
   ---
   Mr. Aaron is now writing from his home in Belfast, Maine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Robert L. Muller
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   JAPAN'S ANTI-NUCLEAR STANCE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japan, at an international review of the 20-year-old
Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, will press for stronger
enforcement measures to halt the spread of nuclear arms, the
government said.
   The reviewing-committee session, which begins today in
Geneva, is aimed at resolving problems in the treaty, which
is widely expected to be extended beyond its expiration date
in 1995.
   Japan will propose that the nuclear "club" of nations that
possess atomic weapons allow the International Atomic Energy
Agency to inspect all their nuclear facilities, officials
said. Nuclear-weapons nations are now allowed to specify
which sites will be open to inspection by the United Nations
agency, while signatories without nuclear weapons must open
all sites.
   Japan will also seek stronger controls on the export of
nuclear technology, including a requirement for detailed
explanations of the purpose of related equipment before the
granting of export permits. In addition, Japan will press for
nonsignatory nations to join the treaty and for greater
arms-reduction efforts by members of the nuclear club.
   The professed nuclear powers are China, Britain, France,
India, the Soviet Union and the U.S., but several other
nations are believed capable of producing nuclear arms.
                                                                                                       

   BERLIN BIAS
                                                                                                       

   A majority of Germans favor Berlin as the capital of a
united Germany, according to 2,093 West Germans and 799 East
Germans surveyed by the West German Interior Ministry. The
survey found 55% of the West Germans in favor of Berlin,
compared with 43% who prefer the capital staying in Bonn.
Among East Germans, 91% want Berlin and 7% like Bonn. For
cost reasons, many leading West German officials are opposed
to moving the seat of government to Berlin.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH KOREAN ARMS BUDGET
                                                                                                       

   South Korea's Defense Ministry called for an 18% rise in
the military budget next year, with about half the increase
to go for pay rises. However, the Economic Planning Board has
proposed a boost of less than 10%. The ministry proposal, for
military spending equivalent to $11 billion, would represent
nearly 29% of the nation's total 1991 budget.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN AFFAIRS TRANSLATED
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Affairs, an influential U.S. journal of commentary
on international matters, said Chuokoron, a Japanese monthly,
will translate and publish about 40 Foreign Affairs essays
and articles annually over the next five years. Chuokoron
also carries Japanese commentary on politics, economics,
history and international relations. Foreign Affairs is
published by the Council on Foreign Relations, New York.
                                                                                                       

   SAUSAGES FOR SLIMMERS
                                                                                                       

   Sundby-Wenbo, a Danish pork-products cooperative, said it
is seeking world-wide patents for a new process that cuts the
fat content of sausages and other processed meat to 3%, about
one-fifth the level in the leanest products now available.
Company officials said the process substitutes vegetable
extract for fat but doesn't affect taste and consistency.
They added that the lean-meat products, which the company
plans to launch in Denmark by the end of this month, contain
only one-third the calories and half as much salt as other
processed meats.
                                                                                                       

   TAIWAN COOLS OFF
                                                                                                       

   Taiwan's economy is expected to grow 5.24% in 1990, down
from 7.33% in 1989 and the lowest rate since 1983, a
government agency reported. The estimate trailed both the
government's 1990 target of 7% and a prediction in May of
7.23%. Officials attributed the slowing economic activity
mainly to lackluster stock-market performance, rising labor
costs, decreasing exports and continuing declines in private
investment.
                                                                                                       

   CLOSE SHAVE IN ISRAEL
                                                                                                       

   Israel's chief rabbi, Mordechai Eliahu, ruled that
Orthodox Jewish men may shave their beards so gas masks fit
properly in the event of a chemical attack by Iraq, and he
urged them to carry scissors in case they need a fast trim.
   Many Orthodox men have full beards and wear side curls.
But, in his ruling, Rabbi Eliahu said that although Jewish
tradition always speaks of Jewish men wearing beards, there
was no prohibition against shaving in the body of Jewish law.
   "Bearded men have to shave off their beards before wearing
a gas mask, because even a two-day beard prevents the mask
from sealing properly and may allow the gas to penetrate
inside," the rabbi said.
   The Israeli government has considered distributing masks
because of threats by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to
attack the Jewish state with chemical weapons. Private sales
of masks have boomed.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Japan's cosmetic-surgery business, once patronized largely
by entertainers and bar hostesses, is getting a new look of
its own. Young women are flooding surgeons' offices for
operations ranging from nose jobs and double eyelids to bust
enhancements. . . . Moscow, which often boasts of having the
world's best ice cream, has a shortage in these waning days
of summer. Officials said two of the Soviet capital's three
ice-cream factories are closed for repairs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   A Correction
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<LP>
   In last Thursday's chart showing OECD data on gross public
debt as a percent of nominal gross national product, the
figure for the United States for 1990 should have been 50.9%,
not 58.9%.
   {See: "REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial): The Bush Economy" --
WSJ Aug. 16, 1990}
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   PWN GOIL LUNR MCAM SMRKV CBRL
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange announced two new
listings, the American Stock Exchange added one, and the
National Market System of the over-the-counter market added
four.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cash America Investments Inc., Fort Worth, Texas, an owner
and operator of pawnshops previously traded on the American
Stock Exchange, begins trading Friday on the Big Board with
the symbol PWN. Mexico Equity &amp; Income Fund Inc., New York, a
closed-end management investment company, started trading on
Wednesday as an initial public offering under the symbol MXE.
                                                                                                       

   Joining the Amex, CII Financial Inc., a Burbank, Calif.,
holding company for California Indemnity Insurance Co.,
previously traded over-the-counter, began trading Thursday,
as CII.
                                                                                                       

   On the OTC market, Gerrity Oil &amp; Gas, a Denver drilling
company, began trading Wednesday, as GOIL.
                                                                                                       

   Lunar Corp., a Madison, Wis., maker of products for
diagnosing and treating metabolic bone diseases, began
trading Tuesday, under LUNR. Marcam Corp., a Newton, Mass.,
supplier of applications software for process manufacturers,
began trading Thursday, under MCAM.
                                                                                                       

   Southmark Corp., a Dallas real estate and financial
services firm, recently reorganized after bankruptcy
proceedings, and previously traded on the Big Board, began
trading Monday, on a when-issued basis under SMRKV for common
stock and SMRPV for preferred shares.
                                                                                                       

   Separately, the Pacific Stock Exchange began trading
options on Cracker Barrel Old Country Store Inc., owner and
operator of country store-theme restaurants, under CBRL.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   A Central Player in a Split Arab World, Yemen
   Decries U.S. Build-Up and Casts Its Lot With Iraq
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   SANAA, Yemen -- Ali Abdullah Saleh is one of the few Arab
leaders willing to stand up and be counted for Saddam
Hussein.
   "Iraq's security was threatened" by Kuwait's policy on oil
and territory, says the 48-year-old Yemeni president. If Iraq
abandoned negotiations too soon, he says, "Iraq's act was
similar to the action adopted by Western countries. They
moved forces at once to protect their interests. If Iraq is
at fault, Western countries also are at fault," he says. "Why
didn't they, too, wait for dialogue?"
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Geographically, this small rugged land at the foot of the
Arabian Peninsula is a long way from the unfolding crisis in
the gulf. But politically, it has become a central player. As
the only Arab state represented on the U.N. Security Council,
Yemen is in the hot seat.
   When the council first voted to condemn the Iraqi invasion
of Kuwait, the Yemeni delegate didn't vote, saying he was
without instructions. That stand reflected Yemen's intense
dilemma, as a close ally of Iraq and major recipient of
Kuwaiti aid.
   Yemen also abstained on the sanctions resolution but went
on to vote against Iraq's annexation of Kuwait and the
holding of foreign captives in Baghdad.
   The arrival of U.S. forces in Saudi Arabia tilted Yemen
firmly toward Iraq. Yemenis have longstanding grudges against
the Saudis over a disputed province and over their workers'
low status and poor treatment at the hands of the Saudis.
   Mr. Saleh is one of a handful of outsiders who have seen
Saddam Hussein since the onset of the crisis. The Iraqi
leader's mood is, he says, unruffled. "He is the same person
I have known all these years," Mr. Saleh says in an
interview. "He loves and wants peace, he rejects war, but in
some circumstances, war has been imposed on him."
   Throwing in his lot with Iraq is uncharacteristic for the
Yemeni president. In his 12-year rule, he has pursued a
policy of strict neutrality, extracting aid from Moscow,
Washington and Beijing, and hewing to the consensus view on
all Arab issues.
   Now, President Saleh finds himself at odds with George
Bush, Egypt's Hosni Mubarak and Saudi Arabia's King Fahd. He
proposes that foreign forces withdraw from Saudi Arabia,
Iraqi forces withdraw from Kuwait and be replaced by Arab
peacekeeping troops, and an Arab negotiating team then work
to mediate a solution.
   "Some countries have blamed us" for abstaining on the two
key Security Council resolutions, he says "but does the U.S.
want solutions, or only condemnations?" Ideally, he says,
Yemen's Security Council seat should represent the Arab bloc
and even some other Third World nations. "But if there is no
consensus, the point of view will reflect the views of Yemen
only," he adds.
   Yemen is opposed to sanctions against Iraq "for mere human
reasons, because children, women and elderly people will
suffer." However, Yemen, which itself imports food and can't
refine all its own oil, won't take part in sanctions-busting.
"We don't have the resources to do so," the president says in
the interview.
   He also rules out a military role. Some analysts have
suggested that Yemen might use an Iraqi attack on Saudi
Arabia as an opportunity to attack the Saudis' southern flank
and win back the disputed province of Asir. Rumors of tank
movements in the north have been fueled by tighter travel
restrictions near border areas.
   But President Saleh denies any such intentions. "Yemen
isn't part of the conflict," he says. He considers his chief
obligation to push for foreign withdrawal. If the U.S. is so
concerned about the sovereignty of Kuwait's ruling family, he
says, "we should remember Panama, where America took a
president out of office by force and brought him to the U.S.
for trial."
   Mr. Saleh doesn't think the deep split in Arab opinion is
irreversible. "I think the Yemen streets and the Arab streets
all are more angry against some Arab leaderships than they
are with the Americans themselves," he says. "Arab people
should stand together and find solutions, they should not
cooperate with imperialists. I think that if foreign forces
withdraw, there is hope for a unified Arab position."
   Mr. Saleh says he considers President Bush "a wonderful
friend," wise in domestic administration. But now, he says,
the president may be carried away by "the pride of the U.S.
as a superpower." He says he can't see any justification for
the massive U.S. military deployments.
   "If it is just to show the power of the U.S., we are all
familiar with that," he says. "The U.S. used to talk about
individual Palestinians as terrorists, but the U.S. is
terrorizing by fleets, warships, aircraft. It is terrorizing
the whole world."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hallwood Unit to Buy Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   HWEC HWG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Hallwood Energy Corp. said it will purchase up
to $2.5 million shares of Hallwood Group Inc. from time to
time on the open market or in private transactions. Hallwood
Group owns about 51% of Hallwood Energy stock. Hallwood
Energy is an oil and gas concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Dispute in U.S.S.R. Over Control of Commodities
   Worries Traders, Dealers About Future Pacts
   ----
   By Neil Behrmann
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The dispute between the Soviet Union and Russian
Federation about control of key raw material exports is
roiling international commodity markets, dealers say.
   So far, current contracts involving raw materials trade
with the U.S.S.R. haven't been affected. But commodity
dealers and traders are worried about future deals and
whether Soviet state marketing organizations will remain in
charge.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I telexed our Moscow office to find out what was going
on, but they are still unsure," says Colin Williams, managing
director of Wogen Resources Ltd., a firm that buys titanium,
rhodium, antimony, mercury and other metals from the Soviet
Union.
   Meanwhile, an official from the U.S.S.R. trade delegation
in London says that policy is "still very much in the air."
He adds: "We must wait until the Russian parliament
reconvenes in early September."
   Soviet exports are presently handled by state
organizations that market and distribute minerals on behalf
of mines and refineries, the U.S.S.R. trade official says.
Western merchants and consumers negotiate firm contracts with
the organizations, which are controlled by the Soviet
Government.
   They include Raznoimport, an exporter and importer of
nonferrous metals; Sojuzneffteexport, which controls sales of
oil, and Glavalmazzolto, a state organization that
distributes platinum, palladium and diamonds through its
international marketing agent Alamazjuvelirexport.
   Concern about raw material contracts with these
organizations arises from a "new union treaty," which
increases the political and economic independence of the
Russian and the 14 other republics in the Soviet Union,
dealers say.
   The Russian Federation became a sovereign state in June
and is jockeying for greater power over exports and imports
of key metals and minerals.
   In the past two weeks, the Russian parliament's presidium
declared that any deals relating to the export of "diamonds,
gold, platinum, precious stones, oil, gas, coal, uranium,
rare earths, nonferrous and ferrous metals, furs, timber,
grain and other strategic resources" were legal only if
concluded jointly by the Soviet Union and Russia, dealers
say.
   The bulk of these materials are produced in Siberia and
other Russian regions.
   "Potential changes could de-stabilize metal markets," says
a base metals dealer who negotiates large contracts with the
Soviet Union. He says that Western companies will be
uncertain whether deals they negotiate will be legally
binding and whether organizations will meet future deliveries
or minerals will be dumped on markets in a disorderly way.
   Only recently, two Soviet state organizations and the
nation's nickel mine and refinery competed with each other to
sell nickel, says Jim Lennon, a research manager at
Commodities Research Unit in London. Such internal
competition could be counterproductive, he says.
   Russia intends to review all export deals negotiated by
the central Soviet government relating to precious metals,
minerals and other resources, said Sergei Shakhrai, chairman
of the Russian parliament's legislative committee, in an
interview with Izvestia, the official Soviet newspaper.
   Foreign embassies and companies would be informed that
such deals were invalid unless concluded with the
participation of the Russian Federation, he said.
   "So far, we haven't heard of any platinum group-metal
contract that has been altered," says Alan Austin, general
manager of the precious metals division of Johnson Matthey
PLC.
   Yet if the declaration becomes law, it will become
problematic to deal with organizations in the Soviet Union,
he says. It would cloud the authority of the marketing
agencies, and Western businessmen would be fearful that
Russian committees could veto contracts.
   Inevitably, there would be bottlenecks because deals would
be kept on ice until approved by Soviet and Russian
officials, Mr. Austin says. The uncertainty would impede the
Soviet Union's foreign trade, he adds.
   De Beers Centenary AG, which recently lent the Soviet
Union $1 billion and concluded a $5 billion contract to sell
Soviet diamonds, is also perplexed about Russia's
declaration.
   "No one from the Soviet Union has instructed us that our
contract is null and void," a De Beers spokesman says. This
is hardly surprising, he says, since no one but De Beers
would absorb such a large amount of diamonds.
   Dealers say it would be a problem for the U.S.S.R. and
Russia if efficient marketing agencies are either dismantled
or lose authority.
   For example, Vnesheconombank, which sells gold, and the
marketing agent Alamazjuvelirexport are shrewd organizations,
which obtain the best available prices for the Soviet Union,
according to precious metals dealers.
   Looking ahead to other commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Orange Juice
                                                                                                       

   An unexpected cut in the export price of frozen
concentrated orange juice from Brazil triggered a plunge in
New York futures prices. The September contract dropped
almost 10 cents a pound, to $1.7065 from $1.8060.
   But Brazil's price cut, to $1.85 a pound from $2.12, could
help sow the seeds of an eventual price resurgence by
contributing to greater demand in Europe. Europe is the main
competitor of the U.S. for the Brazilian product, noted
Sandra Kaul, an analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers. "And
with the dollar so low, strong European demand for the juice
could be stimulated and draw supplies away from the U.S.,
causing U.S. prices to rise."
   The Brazilian move was a long-delayed reaction to a sharp
drop in futures in June, to $1.65 from $1.90, when
speculative selling overwhelmed buying by U.S. processors.
U.S. consumer demand for orange juice has been slipping
because of high prices, Ms. Kaul said, and processors have
slowed their buying because the Florida crop turned out to be
more ample than expected after the frost last Christmas.
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   Crude oil futures prices this week will go higher to flirt
with $30 a barrel if market participants continue to bet on
U.S. military intervention in the Persian Gulf, which they've
seen as a bullish prospect. Prices will fall back again if
traders and brokers instead take heed of new indications that
Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and other producers will pump
additional oil to fill the void left by the embargo against
Iraqi and Kuwaiti crude. If the upward pressures continue,
September gasoline futures prices could top $1 a gallon. They
jumped 8.51 cents a gallon Friday to 95.97 cents on Middle
East crisis talk and word that some Atlantic Richfield Co.
stations ran out of regular unleaded gasoline. ARCO froze its
prices to counter charges that oil companies were gouging
customers following Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
                                                                                                       

   Grains and Soybeans
                                                                                                       

   Futures prices this week are likely to fluctuate with
events in the Mideast as traders weigh the prospects for a
recession against the possibility that an escalation of
hostilities in the desert could spur an inflationary price
surge in the U.S. "It sounds bad, but wars are normally
friendly to grains" as a result of the inflationary push they
tend to give an economy, said one futures analyst. In such
situations demand for grain and soybeans typically picks up
as users, fearing higher prices in the future, boost their
stockpiles. In periods of recession and slack demand, prices
usually fall. Soybean futures prices are also being supported
by continued worries that the rain-delayed crop may suffer
this fall if an early frost sets in across many growing
regions. On Friday, soybean futures for November delivery
gained 1.75 cents a bushel to close at $6.2875 a bushel, and
December corn futures added one cent a bushel to close at
$2.4550 a bushel. December wheat futures prices slid 2.25
cents a bushel to close at $2.97 a bushel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, August 17, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8% high, 8% low, 8% near closing bid, 8%
offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for overnight
use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source: Babcock Fulton
Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.95% 30 to 41 days; 7.875% 42 to 59 days;
7.75% 60 to 89 days; 7.70% 90 to 119 days; 7.65% 120 to 149
days; 7.60% 150 to 179 days; 7.45% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.10%
30 days; 8% 60 days; 7.95% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.65% one month; 7.65% two
months; 7.70% three months; 7.92% six months; 8.05% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.05% one month; 8.05% three months;
8.05% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.95% 30 days; 7.84% 60 days; 7.81%
90 days; 7.75% 120 days; 7.73% 150 days; 7.68% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/4% - 8 1/8% one month; 8 1/4%
- 8 1/8% two months; 8 3/16% - 8 1/16% three months; 8 3/16%
- 8 1/16% four months; 8 3/16% - 8 1/16% five months; 8 3/16%
- 8 1/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 3/16% one month;
8 3/16% three months; 8 3/16% six months; 8 3/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, August 13, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.41% 13 weeks; 7.31% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.15%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.125%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.08%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.45%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.65%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Citicorp Pushes Its Bank Cards Overseas
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI AXP CMB EUROP LATAM FREST
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   From Bangkok to Barcelona, consumers are hearing an
advertising slogan familiar to many Americans: "Not just
Visa, Citibank Visa."
   Citicorp, the parent of Citibank, is already the biggest
issuer of bank cards in the U.S., with 22 million accounts
and 29 million cardholders. But in the past two years, it has
set its sights on consumers in 18 other countries. And this
year alone, Citicorp expects that outside the U.S. its Visa,
MasterCard and Diners Club cards will grow 40%, to more than
three million accounts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp isn't attempting to unseat local banks as the
biggest card issuers in these countries. Instead, it is
picking market niches -- usually upper income groups -- where
its name and ability to provide services give it an edge.
   "Our name connotes an upscale image," says Pei-yuan Chia,
head of Citicorp's international consumer business. "In many
countries we have an existing customer base through our
branches. We also have our learning experience in the U.S. to
draw on."
   If the card business pans out overseas, Citicorp's future
earnings could get a nice kick. (Its domestic card business
already earns more than $600 million a year.) "At some point,
I can see us with 15 million accounts overseas," says Mr.
Chia. Assuming Citicorp makes a profit of about $25 annually
on each overseas account, as it does now on its U.S.
portfolio, he says that would mean earnings could jump
between $350 million and $400 million a year.
   Citicorp isn't alone in recognizing the potential of
expanding overseas. American Express Co. is the card pioneer
abroad, with 10 million cardholders outside the U.S. G.
Richard Thoman, head of American Express's international
businesses, estimates there are 120 million people outside
North America who could qualify for one of the company's
cards.
   Last year, the number of overseas American Express green
and gold charge cards and Optima credit cards climbed about
17%. But Mr. Thoman says he's "more comfortable with growth
in the 12% to 15% range." He adds that American Express
issues cards in about 30 countries, and "we're pretty well
through the list of countries that we need to be in."
   Chase Manhattan Corp. is the third major U.S. player in
the international card game. With a presence in 10 countries,
Chase has quadrupled its credit card accounts overseas in the
past three years. Though it declines to divulge how many
accounts it has, it is believed to be well behind American
Express and Citicorp.
   Competitively, U.S. issuers are in good shape in foreign
countries. As H. Robert Heller, a former Federal Reserve
Board governor and now an executive with Visa International,
says: "Traditionally, banks have relied on the customer to
come to the bank for the service. American banks learned long
ago that they needed to go to the customer."
   The push overseas is propelled by economic forces. Some
targeted countries have faster growing economies than the
U.S., and some have emerging middle classes. Mr. Heller
estimates that charge volume on Visa cards in Europe will hit
$250 billion by 1993, surpassing Visa's U.S. charge volume.
   Another factor is the increasingly cutthroat competition
in the U.S. The average adult consumer has about six charge
and credit cards, and new issuers, such as American Telephone
&amp; Telegraph Co. and Prudential Insurance Co. of America,
continue to enter the market. As a result, card issuers have
to spend more to get new cardholders. Bankers estimate that
the cost of adding new accounts has risen to more than $100
today from $20 in 1980.
   The question remains whether credit cards will be as
profitable in other countries as they are in the U.S. For one
thing, 70% of foreign consumers typically pay off their
balances in full each month. In the U.S. only 30% do,
providing greater interest income for banks.
   Another danger is that losses will exceed expectations.
Citicorp's overseas card losses are far below its U.S.
levels, but loss rates usually don't start rising until the
third year and Citicorp isn't even two years into its
international push.
   Part of the challenge in issuing cards overseas is
figuring out who should get them, particularly because many
countries don't have centralized credit reporting bureaus. To
fill this void, Citicorp is being creative. In India, where a
telephone is expensive and difficult to get, it uses the
telephone directory to find potential customers. In
Indonesia, it solicits owners of TV satellite dishes.
   West Germany poses cultural as well as marketing hurdles.
Historically, Germans have shunned debt and have used their
cards as electronic checkbooks instead of revolving credit.
In fact, the German word for "debt" -- schulden -- also means
"guilt." In addition, German privacy laws make it difficult
to get an individual's credit history for commercial
purposes, and other laws governing promotions prevent
comparative advertising or gifts.
   To deal with the cultural issue, Citicorp coined a German
phrase with more positive connotations for consumers. Roughly
translated, the term, Ruckzahl-Wahl, means "credit that
empowers."
   Citicorp was able to rely on customers of its thriving
German consumer banking subsidiary, Kundenkreditbank, as one
source of potential cardholders. But to reach beyond KKB
customers, it had to compile a list of desirable consumers by
such means as combing home ownership records for well-to-do
neighborhoods.
   Brazil is testing Citicorp's nimbleness in dealing with a
changing economy. Citicorp manages Credicard S.A., the big
MasterCard issuer that Citicorp and two large Brazilian banks
jointly own. In 1989, Credicard dominated the market with a
36% share of Brazilian charge card volume.
   Brazil's hyperinflation worked in favor of credit card
issuers because consumers were encouraged to borrow and repay
with inflated cruzados. As a result, the profitability of a
Credicard MasterCard account was only slightly less than that
of a U.S. account.
   But President Ferdinando Collor de Mello's anti-inflation
program reined in consumer borrowing. To recoup some of what
they have lost in borrowings, Credicard and other issuers
have raised annual fees. "It's not as profitable as it once
was," Mr. Chia says.
   In Singapore, the market already looked saturated by the
time Citicorp considered issuing cards. By law, only
well-to-do people, roughly 200,000 of the nation's 2.7
million residents, can legally be offered a card. Ten other
issuers, including American Express, had already put 680,000
cards in the hands of residents, and some banks had waived
annual fees for two years.
   In such a competitive environment, Raymond Lim, Citicorp's
general manager of cards in Singapore, says, the only viable
strategy was to differentiate Citibank credit cards from all
the low-cost alternatives. Citicorp chose to go after the
upper income segment with the highest priced card ($75 for a
gold card), fatter credit lines, round-the-clock customer
service world-wide and a heavy promotion blitz using media
and mail.
   The approach seems to be working. Since September 1989,
Citicorp has issued 40,000 cards, representing about 6% of
the market. Jeanine Farhi, head of cards in Southeast Asia,
says, "Singapore has been a terrific surprise."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Will Raise
   $1.2 Billion New Cash
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $1.2 billion in
new cash Thursday by selling about $10.5 billion in 52-week
bills and redeeming $9.29 billion in maturing bills.
   The bills, which will be available in minimum
denominations of $10,000, will be dated Aug. 30 and will
mature Aug. 29, 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills must be received by 1 p.m. EDT
Thursday at the Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or
branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Soviets May Loosen Law
   On Foreign Ownership Role
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- The Soviet government has submitted a bill to
parliament that would allow foreign companies to become sole
owners of new enterprises in the Soviet Union, Prime Minister
Nikolai Ryzhkov said.
   It would be the first time in at least 60 years that
foreigners have been allowed to wholly own businesses here.
Under current law, foreign companies must work with Soviet
firms in joint ventures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It is impossible to move toward a market economy while
the country is isolated from the world economy," Mr. Ryzhkov
said today, in remarks carried by the official Tass news
agency. "One can no longer rely on joint ventures alone."
   Tass quoted a senior official of the State Foreign
Economic Commission as saying the bill would encourage
foreign investment by granting substantial benefits for joint
ventures in which the share of foreign capital exceeds 30%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Critique:
   Why Equity's Bluff Didn't Work
   ----
   By Edwin Wilson
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- The only problem with a bluff is that someone
may call it. When Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait he doubtless
assumed that his naked aggression would be met with a great
deal of rhetoric, but little more. The West, after all, is
soft and self-indulgent; America's insatiable need for
immediate oil supplies surely would make a concerted,
sustained effort to go without Iraq's oil out of the
question.
   Something like the same strategy must have been in the
minds of the Actors Equity Council, which voted two weeks ago
to forbid the appearance of British star Jonathan Pryce in
the forthcoming Broadway musical "Miss Saigon."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The issue, the council argued, was one of discrimination:
Mr. Pryce is white and the role he plays in the London
production is half-French and half-Vietnamese.
   Actors Equity has been very concerned in recent years with
the casting of minorities in theater productions. Admittedly,
there has been a bit of confusion about its various stands.
On the one hand, it insists that roles be performed by an
actor of the race or nationality so designated: black
performers in black roles, Hispanic actors in Hispanic roles,
and so forth.
   But it also has made a big pitch for "color-blind"
casting: black actresses, for example, playing the Swedish
Miss Julie or the Southern Blanche DuBois. Obviously there is
a serious contradiction here.
   You can't encourage the casting of an African-American as
a Caucasian and forbid a Caucasian to play an Asian. But that
is exactly what Equity did, and one reason is that it thought
it could call the bluff of "Miss Saigon" producer Cameron
Mackintosh.
   In point of fact, Equity had no legal basis for refusing
permission for Mr. Pryce to appear. The contract between the
producers and Equity has to do with British-American
exchanges, not with discrimination. Neither country's acting
union will allow an actor from the other country to appear
unless he or she is an acknowledged star. But Mr. Pryce is a
star, having been designated as such by Equity when he
appeared in the U.S. in 1984 in "Comedians."
   There were a number of other ironies in the situation, one
being that Mr. Pryce is a political activist in Britain and a
life-long fighter for the rights of minorities. Then there is
the supreme irony that "Miss Saigon" would employ more than
30 Asian-American actors -- more than have been in any
Broadway show in decades.
   None of this mattered to the members of the Equity
Council, however. They intended to carry through with their
grandstand play on minority casting because they felt they
had Mr. Mackintosh just where they wanted him.
   The advance sale for "Miss Saigon" -- originally scheduled
to open here next March -- was an unprecedented $25 million,
a sum that would corrupt any producer, as Equity saw it,
since, in its view, producers are greedy creatures for whom
the dollar is everything. This, Equity apparently thought,
must be especially true of Mr. Mackintosh, who with "Cats,"
"Les Miserables" and "The Phantom of the Opera" is the most
commercially successful theater producer of modern times.
   It was true, of course, that Mr. Mackintosh had stated he
would cancel the production and return the $25 million if he
could not use Mr. Pryce. But Equity did not believe him. What
difference could one star make, it reasoned, with such a huge
advance? The production would make money no matter what.
   Adding to Equity's confidence in calling Mr. Mackintosh's
bluff was its fallback position. If the ruling went against
him, Mr. Mackintosh doubtless would take the matter to
arbitration, where, many in Equity agreed, he would win his
case. Then Equity would have it both ways: It would have made
its self-righteous point, but the production would still go
on.
   The Equity Council made a few miscalculations, however.
For one thing, Mr. Mackintosh does not need the money: He's
already the richest theater man in the Western world and one
more mega-hit is not at the top of his priorities. Also, he's
a man of principle where theater production is concerned. He
did not become so pre-eminently successful by compromising on
his theatrical values, including the stars in his shows.
   Mr. Mackintosh was interested in only two points: that
Equity should honor its contract, and that he should be
allowed to employ the actor whom he thought was best for the
show.
   In his mind the part of the Eurasian pimp in "Miss
Saigon," who also serves as a narrator, requires a performer
with an exceptional flair, bite and cutting edge. Not only
was there no Asian-American who qualified, there was no
American period. (Having seen Mr. Pryce in the role in
London, one can easily understand Mr. Mackintosh's position.)
   To the consternation of Equity, not only did Mr.
Mackintosh cancel the production -- setting up a mechanism to
return the advance -- but he refused to take the matter to
arbitration.
   Immediately the entire theater world descended on Equity.
This was depriving hundreds of future employment. It was
going to seriously affect the economy of New York and
countless other cities across the U.S. where the production
might go in future years.
   New York Mayor David Dinkins quickly summoned the Equity
leaders to his office at City Hall. Theater writers pointed
out that Equity's vaunted ethical position was riddled with
inconsistencies.(Black performers recently have appeared in
leading white roles in unprecedented numbers.)
   Under the pressure, Equity members in current Broadway
shows petitioned the council to reconsider. Their bluff had
been called not just by Mr. Mackintosh, but by a united
theater community. Last Thursday, in a six-hour meeting, the
Equity Council reversed itself. Equity's executive secretary
stated afterward that the union welcomed Mr. Pryce and wished
Mr. Mackintosh a "long and prosperous run."
   Mr. Mackintosh has said he will respond today or tomorrow.
Every expectation is that he will resume his plans to bring
"Miss Saigon" to Broadway and that Mr. Pryce will agree to
come along.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   As Mideast Stalemate Drags On, Managers Get Jittery
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   P ARC ENE SNT E HAL SLB ECO T.ECO PGU T.PGU BA CBRL CLE
FHT NHLI DFII WMT
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- It's a money manager's nightmare --
uncertainty.
   With war clouds gathering in the Mideast and the economy
hanging by a thread, many money managers are desperately
groping for a way to deal with a loose cannon, Iraq's
unpredictable dictator Saddam Hussein. And the longer the
stalemate in the Mideast lasts, the more nervous money
managers grow.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is probably the most difficult situation I've had to
deal with in my 21 years in the business," says Ray Hirsch,
senior portfolio manager at IDS Financial Services.
"Investment strategy is being made in the Middle East right
now," says Peter Canelo of Bear Stearns, whose long-running
bullish view is losing some of its conviction. "Clients
aren't terribly interested in economic and interest-rate
forecasts because they know $40-a-barrel oil will change all
those forecasts."
   So what to do? Some managers say they are sitting tight;
in other words, they are paralyzed. But others, at least, are
taking action, expecting the stock market to decline further.
   The most popular activist approach is to raise cash,
taking profits in expensive growth stocks and selling
anything especially vulnerable in an economic downturn.
Portfolio managers who don't have the option of greatly
increasing cash are shifting into utilities, companies with
low price-earnings ratios, domestic oil companies, oil-field
service companies and defense issues.
   Mr. Canelo of Bear Stearns has raised his average cash
position he recommends to clients to about 12%. For
institutions where there is no limit to how much of the
portfolio can be in cash, 50% might be the right number, he
says. He thinks the stock market is headed lower.
   On Thursday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed 10.6%
below its peak of 2999.75; a drop of more than 10% meets a
commonly accepted definition for the end of a stock market
rally, in this case, the one that began Dec. 4, 1987. On
Friday, the industrial average extended the decline an
additional 36.64 points to 2644.80. Many managers are groping
for a bottom. An often-repeated number is 2500, but that
keeps changing.
   Mr. Canelo of Bear Stearns, for example, spoke Friday of
2640 as a possible support level. Minutes later, the
industrial average sunk briefly to about 2620, and Mr. Canelo
was raising the possibility of a 2500 bottom -- 2400 if oil
goes over $30 a barrel, 2200 at $50 a barrel.
   A.C. Moore, research director at Argus Research, says the
stock market won't look fairly valued until about 2550. He
sees oil prices staying below $30 a barrel. That would lead
to a recession, but not a deep or long one, he says.
   "It's important to raise cash if you haven't already," Mr.
Moore says. He recommends a 60-40 stocks-to-cash ratio in an
all-stocks portfolio and a 40-30-30 mix in a stock-bonds-cash
account. He says the stock portion should include domestic
oil companies such as Phillips Petroleum and Atlantic
Richfield, natural gas companies such as Enron, Sonat and
Transco, oil-service providers such as Halliburton and
Schlumberger, and some gold stocks, including Echo Bay Mines
and Pegasus Gold.
   Not everyone, however, is willing to accept the idea that
the bull market has finally died. Mr. Hirsch of IDS says: "We
have broken the back of the bull leg, but I'm not saying
we're in a bear market yet." He believes the market would
have to hit 2300 to 2400 before he would be convinced a bear
market was in full swing. Still, the international
environment makes his job tough.
   Mr. Hirsch has nearly doubled the cash level in the $160
million Discovery stock fund he manages to about 16%. "The
likelihood of a long-term stalement {in the Mideast} has
risen sharply in the last week," he says. Mr. Hirsch isn't
buying any stocks right now. He is simply selecting the best
candidates to hold and selling the rest. If warranted, he has
the flexibility to go as much as 35% into cash. Currently, he
is betting on a long-term stalemate in the Mideast and a
subsequent continuing rise in oil prices.
   Some examples of what he is selling: Boeing, which may
face a slowdown in commercial aircraft orders due to higher
fuel costs, and Cracker Barrel Old Country Store, which
operates turnpike restaurants. He is holding some service and
health care companies.
   Not surprisingly, Abby Joseph Cohen, who has been bearish
for some time, believes a bear market is here. "This is for
real," says Mrs. Cohen, chief strategist for Barclays de
Zoete Wedd Research. Even before Iraq invaded Kuwait, she was
recommending that an account normally 60% in stocks be cut
back to 40%, with 25% in cash. She, too, thinks that stocks
won't become appealing until the industrial average hits
2500, and even then, that's not a definite buy signal.
   "If investors are increasingly worried about the direction
of the economy when the market gets to that fair-value
level," she says, "fair value won't matter. Just as stocks
can get overvalued, they can get undervalued" before a
rebound occurs.
   Not all money managers are befuddled by events in the
Mideast. James Awad of BMI Capital believes that the turmoil
will all be resolved by Christmas, and the investor who hangs
in there in the meantime will make money.
   "I am willing to make the leap of faith that in perceived
financial panics, those who have been guided by greed --
rather than fear -- made money, so I'm buying stocks," he
says. Specifically, he's buying high-quality, medium-sized
growth stocks such as Claire's Stores, Fingerhut, National
Health Labs and Duty Free International.
   "It's very difficult to make that leap of faith," Mr. Awad
adds, "because it's very easy to become emotionally paralyzed
and do some selling rather than buying. . . . Someday, the
system may fail, and I'll look back and say I wish I had a
bar of gold, some dried food, a machine gun and a hut in
country. But I believe the world tends to fix itself and goes
on."
   Another money manager bucking the flight to cash is Frank
A. Cappiello Jr., president of San Francisco-based
McCullough, Andrews &amp; Cappiello. "Going into cash as much as
you can is dangerous," he says. "You have to pay an exit fee,
and figuring out when to go back in requires terrific
timing." Most of the safe-haven stocks, he says, have already
been picked over. His solution is to buy growth stocks that
have already been pounded in the recent sell-offs. He cites
Wal-Mart and Boeing as examples.
   "I'm buying stocks that have been overly discounted," Mr.
Cappiello says. "You have to have a one-year view now."
   "Whatever you do," says Argus Research's Mr. Moore, "never
panic. There's always a strategy. A true professional never
gets paralyzed."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Concerns about escalating tensions in the Middle East
continued to hammer stocks, with prices dropping broadly and
sharply in heavy trading. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
fell 36.64 to 2644.80, its lowest level since March 1. The
loss for the week was 71.78, or 2.6% -- a fifth consecutive
weekly decline.
   The Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index tumbled 4.56, or
1.37%, to 327.83, the New York Stock Exchange composite index
dropped 2.54, or 1.39%, to 180.19 and the Dow Jones Equity
Market Index fell 4.42, or 1.43% to 303.74.
   Declining stocks routed advancers, 1,330 to 310, on the
Big Board, with oil issues dominating the list of gainers as
nervousness about the Middle East sent oil prices soaring.
   Activity was brisk amid fears that the Mideast situation
might boil over during the weekend. By early afternoon the
industrial average was off 63 points before staging a partial
recovery.
   Activity from the closeout of August stock-index futures
and options at the close pushed Big Board volume to a hefty
212,560,000 shares, up from 138,850,000 shares Thursday.
   The American Stock Exchange volume totaled 16,120,895
shares compared with 14,156,640 Thursday. There were 140
issues advancing, 468 declining and 199 unchanged.
   With the latest setback, the industrial average is down
354.95 points, or 11.8%, from its all-time closing high of
2999.75, set just one month earlier. The year's low of
2543.24 was set Jan. 30.
   Boeing retreated 2 1/8 to 48 1/2 in Big Board composite
trading of 3.8 million shares. The commercial-aircraft
business is softening after a two-year spending spree by jet
buyers, The Wall Street Journal reported.
   American Telephone &amp; Telegraph dropped 7/8 to 33 3/8,
while Eastman Kodak went down 1 5/8 to 40 3/4 on 2.4 million
shares. Other blue-chip issues to be hit especially hard
included Coca-Cola, which went down 1 1/4 to 23 5/8 Goodyear
Tire &amp; Rubber, down 7/8 to 24 1/4, and Allied-Signal, down 1
1/4 to 30 3/8.
   Oil stocks rallied along with oil prices, which surged as
much as $1.35 a barrel in New York trading. Exxon rose 3/8 to
52 1/8 on 2.5 million shares, Texaco advanced 1 5/8 to 63
7/8, Chevron climbed 1 1/8 to 78 5/8, USX gained 3/8 to 32
1/2, Unocal went up 1 1/8 to 33 7/8 and Atlantic Richfield
added 2 1/2 to 137 1/2.
   Precious-metals issues held firm as the price of gold did
the same. Homestake Mining rose 1/8 to 23, Battle Mountain
Gold added 1/8 to 13, Hecla Mining finished unchanged at 13,
Placer Dome finished unchanged at 19 1/2 and American Barrick
Resources rose 5/8 to 24 1/8.
   James River climbed 1 1/8 to 24 after disclosing its plans
to restructure into four major product groups and post a $140
million to $150 million charge for the fiscal quarter ended
July 29.
   Fluor dropped 2 1/4 to 38 3/8 amid worries that the Middle
East conflict could jeopardize Saudi Arabia's
multibillion-dollar expansion of its oil-production
facilities, for which Fluor is a major contractor.
   Par Pharmaceutical fell 7/8 to 5 3/4, making it among the
biggest percentage losers on the Big Board. The company
posted a loss for the June quarter and said it expects to
record a loss for both the next two quarters and the fiscal
year ending next month.
   Geo. A. Hormel slid 1 1/8 to 15 1/8. The company reported
that net income for the fiscal quarter ended last month
dropped 12% from a year earlier.
   Several single-country mutual fund issues also posted
especially sharp losses, reflecting weakness in foreign stock
markets. Mexico Fund fell 1 1/8 to 14 1/8, Growth Fund of
Spain lost 5/8 to 9, Brazil Fund slid 7/8 to 9, Thai Fund
lost 1 1/4 to 19 1/4 and New Germany Fund fell 7/8 to 11 3/8.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index dropped
3.22 to 333.61, with the average price per share going down
11 cents. The index posted a 1.7% loss for the week and now
stands at its lowest level since April 1989.
   Put warrants on foreign stock indexes, which allow their
holders to profit when the measures drop in value, dominated
the list of Amex advancers. PaineWebber's put warrants on the
Nikkei index of 225 Japanese stocks was the exchange's most
active issue and went up 1/4 to 5 3/4.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   XON
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   EXXON Corp. (New York) -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it
reaffirmed Exxon's long-term debt rating despite a recent
announcement that the company had challenged in tax court an
Internal Revenue Service tax assessment of $6.5 billion. The
long-term debt rating of Exxon and its related entities was
affirmed at triple-A and commercial paper at single-A-1-plus,
S&amp;P said. S&amp;P said given the oil company's "superior
financial strength," the assessment doesn't affect Exxon's
credit quality.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Sues Keating to Gain
   Accounting of His Finances
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department sued Charles Keating,
the chairman of the former parent of the defunct Lincoln
Savings &amp; Loan Association, to force him to provide an
accounting of his finances.
   The suit, filed in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles on
behalf of the Office of Thrift Supervision, is designed to
enforce an order issued by the office against Mr. Keating and
officers and directors of the failed S&amp;L. The suit seeks to
require Mr. Keating to refrain from transferring any assets
out of the country and to give the office 48 hours notice
before making any transaction involving assets greater than
$5,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Justice Department said it filed the suit after
discussions between Mr. Keating and the government failed to
produce an agreement on Mr. Keating's compliance with the
order.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Par Pharmaceutical
   Had $5.2 Million Loss
   In Fiscal 3rd Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   PRX
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SPRING VALLEY, N.Y. -- Par Pharmaceutical, plagued by
recalls of its generic drugs, reported a loss for the third
fiscal quarter and said it expected losses for "at least the
next two quarters."
   The company also said it expects to report a loss for
fiscal 1990.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the quarter ending June 30, the loss widened to $5.2
million, or 46 cents a share, from $1.8 million, or 16 cents
a share, a year earlier. Sales fell 65% to $9.7 million from
$27.6 million.
   In March and April, Quad Pharmaceuticals, a Par
subsidiary, recalled 29 injectable products because the
company had made manufacturing changes without following Food
and Drug Administration requirements. Quad voluntarily placed
a moratorium on shipments of other products comprising 85% of
its product line.
   The company reported a third-quarter charge to operations
of $4.7 million in connection with the recalls.
   In announcing the results, Par said that continuing
"manufacturing difficulties" at Quad would continue to
"adversely affect" operations for at least two quarters.
   In August 1989, Par placed a moratorium on shipments of
its entire oral solid product line. By the end of the most
recent quarter, about 70% of that line had been reintroduced.
Par said it had begun to rebuild the Quad management team.
   In the first nine months, Par had a net loss of $10.8
million or 97 cents a share, on $41.9 million in sales;
results included a $10.4 million pre-tax charge in connection
with product recalls and related matters. A year earlier, net
income was $3.7 million, or 34 cents a share, on sales of
$85.7 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Some Partnerships
   Are Cutting Back
   On Financial Data
   ----
   By Jill Bettner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   A growing number of limited partnership sponsors are
cutting back on the information they make available to
investors.
   With the approval of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the sponsors have stopped filing some public
financial reports -- at least until the SEC reaches a
decision on a key disclosure issue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The reports involved are the annual 10K and quarterly 10Q
reports most public companies are required to file with the
agency. How investors are affected will vary from partnership
to partnership. But at a time when at least $5 billion of
partnerships sold a few years ago are foundering, some
analysts and financial advisers are up in arms.
   "It's outrageous," says Spencer Jefferies, a Dallas
partnership analyst. At least 40 of the big public
partnerships he tracks have recently quit making the SEC
filings. He estimates they raised as much as $1 billion from
several thousand investors.
   Rep. Edward J. Markey (D., Mass.), chairman of the House
subcommittee on telecommunications and finance, says the
panel plans to look into the matter. The question, he says,
is whether allowing companies to forgo the detailed reports
runs "counter to a fundamental purpose of our securities laws
-- providing investors with the facts they need to make
informed investment decisions."
   For more than four years now, the SEC has been debating
whether federal laws that require the filings for most
publicly marketed investments should continue to apply to
partnerships and other securities that aren't widely traded.
"There is some concern that the reporting requirements are
burdensome," an SEC spokesman says.
   While the debate continues, the SEC has been granting
temporary filing exemptions. Typically, they are good for two
or three years, when they can be renewed if the SEC still
hasn't decided whether to make them permanent. But they can
be revoked if the agency decides there are material changes
that affect investors.
   The SEC says it has processed applications for more than
850 waivers. Lately, more and more of those requests are
coming from partnership sponsors, especially troubled
sponsors of widely held partnerships.
   Sponsors no longer reporting to the SEC say that not
having to consult securities lawyers and perhaps hire
accountants to help with the filings can benefit their
investors. It "cuts down on partnership expenses," says a
spokeswoman for Angeles Corp., a Los Angeles syndicator. It
received a filing exemption for its Angeles Income Properties
Ltd. real estate partnership in 1988. Six months ago, it
requested waivers for 13 more partnerships. Industry sources
estimate that at least 40,000 investors put more than $400
million into the partnerships involved.
   John Provine, managing general partner of August Real
Estate Investment Inc. of Irvine, Calif., says his company
quit making SEC reports last fall on all 10 of its public
partnerships. They raised about $30 million from 2,000
investors. The cost of the filings ran "anywhere from $50,000
to $150,000 per year per partnership," he says.
   New York-based Integrated Resources Inc., which is in
Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law proceedings, also stopped reporting
last fall on seven of its National Property Investors real
estate partnerships and 17 American Leasing partnerships.
They raised more than $540 million from 58,000 investors.
   Because limited partnerships are long-term investments,
with only limited trading in an informal resale, or
"secondary," market, Integrated thought the cost of filing
SEC reports on its partnerships was unjustified, a
spokeswoman says.
   So did Boston-based Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. Liberty
received filing exemptions for seven of its real estate
partnerships last December. The partnerships, which have
about 20,000 investors, raised $215 million.
   Without the 10K and 10Q reports, the information available
to partnership investors varies widely, says Keith Allaire,
research director at Robert A. Stanger &amp; Co., a Shrewsbury,
N.J., partnership publishing and consulting firm. Most
sponsors send their limited partners audited financial
statements at least once a year. And "some of their annual
reports are substantially superior to the SEC reports," says
Mr. Allaire.
   But it's only in their public filings that many other
syndicators reveal much in the way of historical information.
"There's much more analysis," says Jackie Coyne, senior vice
president of Financial Network Investment Corp., a Torrance,
Calif., brokerage firm. "Limited partners interested in an
in-depth review can really understand what the performance
has been."
   The public filings are the only source of information on
many smaller partnerships.
   "This industry needs more disclosure, not less," says Ms.
Coyne.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   In South Africa, Violence
   Takes on Tribal Overtone
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   KATLEHONG, South Africa -- Under the steeple of St.
Peter's Chains Anglican Church, the survivors of South
Africa's savage political fighting gather to share their
tales of horror.
   Johanna Tefo, her toes poking out of her tattered shoes,
describes fleeing from her flimsy plywood shack as it
disappeared in flames; all she has left now is her
toothbrush, which is wedged behind her left ear like a
pencil. Selina Mqambela, still in a daze, recalls the eight
hours she spent hiding in a swamp, hoping the reeds would
conceal her from the men with spears and machetes. Duduzile
Mkhwanazi, betraying no emotion, tells of her frantic search
for her husband, which ended when she saw police slinging his
body onto a pile of corpses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When South African President F.W. de Klerk opened
Parliament in February with a series of stunning political
reforms, including the unbanning of black opposition groups
and a commitment to end white minority rule, he declared that
"the season of violence is over." But in the turbulent months
since then, it has only gotten worse, culminating in an
outburst of unrest in the past five days that has blacks
killing blacks, leaving more than 270 people dead, hundreds
more injured and thousands homeless.
   The reforms have unleashed a flood of emotions bottled up
during 40 years of racial segregation and severe repression
of black politics. Over the past week, black townships around
Johannesburg have erupted with clashes between supporters of
Inkatha and the African National Congress, two rival parties
seeking to build their power bases in the newly open
political arena. The police and army, controlled by the white
government, have been accused of taking sides and in some
cases of abetting the violence.
   "If this is what the future of South Africa will be, it
will be horrible," says the Reverend Z.T. Mohatsoa, who has
opened up St. Peter's to about fifty women and children left
homeless by the fighting. "We haven't struggled for black
liberation all these years to end up like this. Who will want
to live here?"
   The fighting, tragically, has dashed the optimism
generated by the two initial meetings between the government
and the ANC aimed at clearing away the obstacles to
negotiations on a new constitution. Earlier this month, the
ANC suspended its 30-year-old guerrilla struggle against
white rule, and the government set up a timetable for the
release of political prisoners and return of exiles. Peace,
it seemed, was at hand.
   But then the shacks of Katlehong -- scarred by some of the
fiercest fighting -- and neighboring Thokoza, southeast of
Johannesburg, went up in flames, and so did the spirit of
negotiation. As a result, the peace process, and the
political leaders brokering it, are under intense pressure.
Right-wing whites opposed to the reforms last week broke up a
speech by Mr. de Klerk, who they say is plunging the country
into anarchy. ANC leader Nelson Mandela and Inkatha chief
Mangosuthu Buthelezi seem powerless to control their
supporters. Deep-seated mistrust between the organizations
have kept the two black leaders from coming together for a
joint call for peace. While each of them meets with the
government, they have yet to talk to each other.
   The most disturbing aspect of the violence for both black
and white South Africans, as well as for foreigners looking
to invest in the country's post-apartheid economy, is the
ugly overtone of tribal feuding, which has contributed to the
downfall of much of the rest of Africa. The women seeking
refuge at St. Peter's, who come from a mixture of tribes, say
the Katlehong violence started when Zulus loyal to Inkatha
(which is Zulu-based) poured out of migrant labor dormitories
and attacked the squatter community, particularly targeting
Xhosas. (Mr. Mandela is a Xhosa.) Then, say the women, the
Xhosa men would regroup and attack the Zulus. The cycle of
revenge spun out of control, and spread to other areas around
Johannesburg.
   "The picture from this is that Africans can't govern
themselves, that Africans are irresponsible, that we don't
care for life," says Faith Mashiloane, a member of the
Katlehong Civic Association. "But that isn't true. I tell
you, it isn't true."
   The officers of the association, which is aligned with
groups supportive of the ANC, have come to St. Peter's to
figure out what went wrong. One blames it on the legacy of
apartheid, which accentuated tribal differences by trying to
divide the black majority into ethnic homelands. Another says
the impoverished living conditions of blacks breed
frustration and hostility.
   Many of the civic officials blame conservative elements in
the police who, they say, are intent on destabilizing the
political negotiations and therefore are slow to curb the
violence. (The police vehemently deny this.) Still more blame
Inkatha for raising tensions in the area; one refers to a
pamphlet distributed by Inkatha calling on Zulus to resist
being ruled by a Xhosa, meaning Mr. Mandela. Perhaps, another
volunteers, Mr. Mandela should overrule ANC objections to
meeting with Mr. Buthelezi and test Inkatha's claims to
peace.
   The women refugees at St. Peter's are weary of saying
who's to blame. Letitia Pekane, a social worker at the church
who is trying to help them settle into new homes, conjures up
a familiar image of South Africa. The country is like a
zebra, she says. If someone kills the black stripes, the
white ones die too, and vice versa.
   "If one dies, all die," she says. "That's what is
happening now. We are all dying."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Ciba-Geigy AG:
   Swiss Firm's Profit Fell 12%
   In First Half; Sales Off 2%
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.CIG
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ciba-Geigy AG, a major Swiss chemicals and pharmaceuticals
group, said its group profit after taxes fell 12% in the
first half to 1.22 billion francs ($946 million) from 1.38
billion francs in the like period in 1989.
   Cash flow fell 9% to 1.75 billion francs from 1.92
billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also restated its first-half sales to 10.91
billion francs, down 2% from 11.15 billion a year ago. Last
month, the company had reported first-half 1990 sales of
10.89 billion francs.
   The company blamed currency influences for the decline in
results.
   For the year as a whole, the company expects profit and
sales to come in somewhat lower than last year's levels. The
company posted 1989 group sales of 20.6 billion francs and
group net profit of 1.56 billion francs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Offers Buy-Out
   To Blue-Collar Workers
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   C LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. offered a lump-sum
buy-out of as much as $65,000 to its blue-collar workers
willing to leave the company.
   The No. 3 U.S. auto maker is in the midst of a $1.5
billion cost-cutting program, which includes early retirement
for some white-collar workers. Chrysler also is entering
contract talks with the United Auto Workers union, in which
job security will be an issue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The offer to about 60,000 of Chrysler UAW workers is
similar to programs used at Ford Motor Co. and General Motors
Corp. UAW contracts with the auto makers specifically provide
for such "early termination" payments.
   Chrysler officials said they expect about 600 workers to
take the offer before the Aug. 24 deadline. The company said
about 450 already have signed up. Ford said only five of its
workers have taken the payments this year. The payments range
from $12,000 for workers with at least one year of service to
$65,000 for more experienced workers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Polly Peck Chief Backs Off
   Earlier Hint of a Buy-Out
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   U.POL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Everybody is entitled to a mistake, but it looks
like the chairman of Polly Peck International PLC may have
used up his quota with London's institutional investors.
   In a change of heart that torpedoed his company's stock
price Friday, Asil Nadir, the mercurial chairman and chief
executive of the British food and electronics concern, said
he won't be taking his company private after all. His
decision came five days after he announced that he might make
a bid -- valued by analysts at about #1.3 billion ($2.49
billion) -- for the 74% of the company he doesn't already
own.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company's shares tumbled 78 pence to close at 324
pence.
   "Anybody outside {the company} must be a wee bit surprised
about what's going on," said David Rough, a portfolio manager
for Legal &amp; General Assurance PLC.
   The official reason for the change of mind was that the
bid idea wasn't popular with many investors, who apparently
"indicated that they wouldn't wish to see Polly Peck become a
private company." Mr. Nadir didn't return telephone calls
seeking elaboration.
   But David Fawcus, group financial director, said Mr. Nadir
decided his possible bid wouldn't attract enough shares to
take the company private. Mr. Fawcus denied speculation by
London analysts that Mr. Nadir had simply failed to raise the
financing needed for a bid. "He satisfied the board and its
financial advisers that the money was in place" to bid, Mr.
Fawcus said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Campeau Units
   Seek More Time
   To File Plan
   ----
   By Larry M. Greenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   T.CMP CMAFC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Federated Department Stores Inc. and Allied
Stores Corp. said they have asked the U.S. bankruptcy court
to extend for five months the period during which the
companies have the exclusive right to file a reorganization
plan.
   The request didn't come as a surprise, as the companies
previously indicated they would probably seek such an
extension.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federated and Allied, both subsidiaries of Toronto-based
Campeau Corp., said they needed the additional time "because
of the scope and complexity" of their reorganization effort.
The companies also said the extension would allow management
to concentrate on the stores' operations during the key
Christmas retail season.
   In bankruptcy cases, the debtor has a right to file its
own reorganization plan before creditors have a chance to
suggest an alternative. But the debtor must file within a
designated period or lose that right.
   Federated and Allied are seeking an extension to Feb. 28
from Sept. 12, when the period of exclusivity currently is
due to expire. The companies said a hearing on the request is
scheduled for Sept. 11. They said the action isn't expected
to affect the timing of a presentation to creditors of a
future business plan, which is scheduled for October.
   Kurt Barnard, publisher of the Retail Marketing Report,
said the current difficult retailing environment complicates
efforts by the companies to come up with a reorganization
plan that is acceptable to creditors. He said an extension of
the deadline beyond Christmas might give Federated and Allied
a chance to reverse their recent losses and "put an
encouraging face on their prospects."
   In their latest reporting period, Federated and Allied
posted a combined loss of $27.2 million for May on revenue of
$129.5 million. Federated Department Stores consists of
Bloomingdale's, Abraham &amp; Straus, Rich's/Goldsmith's and
Burdines. Allied Stores consists of Jordan Marsh, Maas/Jordan
Marsh (Florida), Stern's and The Bon Marche.
   Federated and Allied filed for protection under Chapter 11
of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code on Jan. 15 and were given until
May to file a plan of reorganization on an exclusive basis.
This period was then extended. According to Campeau filings,
the two units have a combined $7.3 billion in debt to be
settled under Chapter 11 proceedings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Moody's Is Considering
   Downgrading Sears's Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   S
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it is
considering downgrading its ratings on $6.9 billion in Sears,
Roebuck &amp; Co. debt because of the company's "ongoing
difficulty" improving its retailing returns. Moody's also
cited its concern about the company's future performance.
   Sears has seen its debt ratings decline in the past year
and a half as both Moody's and Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. have
raised questions about whether it can turn around its $31
billion-a-year retail business. In Chicago, a spokesman for
the retailing and financial services concern declined to
comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Any downgrade wouldn't add much, if any, to Sears's
borrowing costs because its debt ratings remain high and
Sears has vast borrowing power. But the agency's action adds
to the skeptical chorus in the investment community about
Sears's chances for a turnaround.
   Underscoring the point, Richard Mercier, a Moody's
assistant vice president, said "We're concerned that the
merchandise group has not turned around as quickly as
anticipated in early 1989." That's when Moody's last
downgraded Sears securities.
   Moody's said its review will focus on Sears's "ability and
likelihood of reversing the decline in {its} market share,"
the company's options to reduce costs and streamline its
distribution system and "possible restructuring actions."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Plastics Industry, Seeking to Head Off
   Packaging Bans, Plans Recycling Plant
   ----
   By Randolph B. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4D
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   The plastics industry, seeking to prevent further bans on
plastic packaging, plans to open the nation's largest plant
to recycle the polystyrene widely used for fast-food
containers.
   National Polystyrene Recycling Co., a joint venture of
major plastics makers that owns the plant, says the facility
will start operating in October in Corona, Calif., east of
Los Angeles. It will have a capacity to recycle as much as 13
million pounds of polystyrene a year, including foam plastic
food containers, hard plastic and packing materials.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   James Schneiders, president of the Lincolnshire, Ill.,
joint venture, says he expects the plant to operate at a
profit by 1992, despite doubts among environmentalists that
polystyrene recycling can be economical. The company's
success will depend on whether it can persuade schools,
institutions and fast-food chains to separate polystyrene and
ship it to the plant. Mr. Schneiders says the plant will pay
the market price of four cents a pound, but won't subsidize
transportation costs. So far, about 20 elementary schools and
a university have signed up. "We have just started to
organize our collection programs," Mr. Schneiders says.
   A pilot recycling program has already persuaded the Los
Angeles Unified School District to drop plans to ban foam
plastic food containers.
   Julie Korenstein, a school board member, says the school
district decided 18 months ago to phase out polystyrene
because of environmental concerns. But the cash-strapped
district had hoped for another solution because paper
containers would cost double the $1.9 million a year spent
for polystyrene, she says.
   "The pressure we applied forced the industry to find
better ways of producing and recycling plastic," Ms.
Korenstein says. She says a ban won't be necessary if the new
plant is as successful as a four-month pilot program in which
1.5 million plastic lunch containers from 17 schools were
recycled. The district saved $400 in landfill costs and
earned $1,200 for the plastic, but didn't incur extra
transportation costs. The district hopes to increase its
savings by expanding the program to 200 elementary schools
next year, Ms. Korenstein says.
   The plastics industry joint venture is planning a total of
five recycling plants nationally to prevent the spread of
bans and restrictions adopted in Minneapolis, Newark, N.J.,
and other communities because of the absence of recycling
facilities. A pilot plant in Leominster, Mass., serves more
than 450 McDonald's restaurants and 200 school systems. Three
other commercial plants are scheduled to open in
Philadelphia, Chicago and San Francisco by the end of this
year. The industry has set a goal of recycling 25% of
fast-food polystyrene by 1995, up from about 1% currently.
   In the Los Angeles area, National Polystyrene Recycling is
contacting fast-food chains, hospitals, Disneyland and other
large producers of plastic waste. The company hopes that
customers will save money through reduced landfill costs and
payments they receive for plastic. But, Mr. Schneiders
concedes, "a lot will depend" on whether customers can get
discounts from their regular trash haulers to offset the
added cost of collecting and transporting plastic to the
recycling plant.
   The plant, which will cost less than $5 million and be
operated by closely held Talco Recycling Inc., will wash the
plastic, grind it up and convert it into "high quality"
pellets. These will be sold for 40 cents or more a pound to
makers of plastic products, such as trash containers, trays,
foam insulation and office products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Black Man's Burden
   ----
   By Amity Shlaes
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Al Sharpton strides out from under the awning
of an apartment building, ready to give a press conference on
behalf of the black cause in New York. But not all the blacks
present on Harlem's 111th Street are eager to hear Mr.
Sharpton's words. A cameraman from a local TV station hides
for a moment with his $60,000 camera behind his mini-van.
Just moments earlier, one of Mr. Sharpton's companions had
whacked the man's camera-stand with a baseball bat.
   The Rev. Al Sharpton loves black America, but black
America isn't sure it loves him back. To the mounting dismay
of many blacks, the rotund reverend has made a name for
himself in the past five years supporting black defendants in
what have come to be called bias cases. Yesterday he was here
to announce that he and his supporters will fund the appeal
of Antron McCray, one of three black youths convicted this
weekend of raping and beating a white woman they attacked as
she jogged one evening in Central Park. Mr. Sharpton leans
forward, his shoulder-length locks flapping, to explain why
this trial, like similar trials in this state over the past
few years, has proven the U.S. justice system works against
blacks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is absolutely incredible," he says of the jogger
verdict. "It is racist." A large brass pendant etched with a
picture of Martin Luther King slides across his chest. As far
as many of the black spectators are concerned, though, Mr.
Sharpton doesn't stand for the King dream. "I'm outta here,"
frowns the cameraman and ducks into his truck.
   "Violence is on the horizon now," says Mr. Sharpton in a
quiet moment a few hours later at a downtown office. He says
black support for his cause is growing. "Right now I am
drawing 100 people, 200 people to rallies every week,"
"There's nobody else in this town who can draw a rally like
that." If New York Governor Mario Cuomo enjoyed the kind of
popularity he enjoyed, he says, "he would announce he was
running for president."
   Al Sharpton was born in 1954, the same year as Brown v.
Board of Education, the Supreme Court's landmark decision
against segregation. Since his youth he has nevertheless
campaigned on blacks' behalf as if injustice were as great as
in the days of slavery. His work began at the age of four,
when "the wonder boy preacher" gave his first sermon at the
Washington Temple of God in Christ, New York's largest
Pentecostal church.
   A disciple of Adam Clayton Powell, Jesse Jackson and
Martin Luther King, he argues that his inflammatory
campaigning today is in the peaceable King's tradition. "I
think Martin would have been in general agreement with me,"
-- he says -- "although he would probably say my style is
more dramatic."
   That style came to national attention when Mr. Sharpton
agitated to prosecute Bernhard Goetz, the subway rider who
shot black youths when they tried to mug him on the New York
subway. He exhibited it again when he led marchers in Howard
Beach in protest of the killing of a black. But he gained
fame -- and infamy -- for his defense with lawyer Alton
Maddox of Tawana Brawley, a black 15-year-old whose claim
that white policemen raped her, covered her with excrement,
and stuffed her in a garbage bag turned out to be a hoax.
   That discovery -- and a 67-count indictment for fraud --
haven't slowed Mr. Sharpton. "I believe Tawana Brawley is
innocent," he says today. (As for the indictment, a jury
recently cleared him of stealing from a charity he founded,
the National Youth Movement.) Sporting his trademark jogging
suits -- he says he owns 20 of them -- he has marched in
Manhattan and Brooklyn to protest what he sees as racism in
the legal system. He brought Ms. Brawley -- clad in an
elegant black coat dress -- to attend the trial of the
jogger's attackers because "I wanted to show the difference
in the system when a white and a black makes an accusation."
When the TV cameras focused on Mr. Sharpton's followers
outside the courthouse during the jogger trial, they chanted
the jogger's name, which most media have not released.
   Now that the jogger trial is ending, Mr. Sharpton says his
goal "is to agitate, to keep the city on edge" until justice
is done. He says he doesn't advocate violence -- and even
argues that the bat-wielder in Harlem would have done "worse
if I hadn't prevented it." But in the eyes of many New
Yorkers, his coy warning that tension is going to build
amounts to the same as a call for violence. A white trader
for the New York Stock Exchange reports the following joke:
"What do you do if you have Saddam Hussein, Moammar Qadhafi
and Al Sharpton, and in your hand is a gun with two bullets?"
Answer: "Shoot Al Sharpton twice -- to be sure he's dead."
   Black New Yorkers may not be so blunt in their
disapproval, but many of them are also angry. Mayor David
Dinkins, who is black, reacted with fury over attempts to
weaken the jogger's case, saying that the jogger "shouldn't
be made a victim a second time" in a farce of a trial. When
the mayor made a public call for racial harmony this spring
after the city grew tense over allegedly racist treatment of
blacks at a Korean grocery in Brooklyn, he attacked the press
for going directly to Mr. Sharpton for a rebuttal. Asked in a
May Daily News/WABC poll to pick the figure or institution
who hurt race relations most in New York, 73% of the black
New Yorkers polled chose Al Sharpton.
   In part, black Americans revolt against figures like Mr.
Sharpton because they feel his picture of growing tension is
a lie. A Roper poll this year found that blacks were far less
unhappy with neighborhood conditions such as unemployment and
crime than they had been in a similar poll in 1978. According
to Burns Roper, the organization's chairman, blacks also feel
discrimination has lessened: Only one-third of blacks now
think whites have a better chance of being hired for jobs,
down from a half in 1978. "It is very clear" that Mr.
Sharpton does not represent black America, says Mr. Burns.
   Alan Keyes, a black former State Department official and
candidate for the Senate in Maryland, associates the Sharpton
phenomenon with a feeling among some blacks that past
injustices pardon current sins. "They think whatever has
happened -- economic injustice -- has turned black people
into an exempt group." He links the jogger trial and other of
Mr. Sharpton's causes to the trial of Washington Mayor Marion
Barry. Despite evidence on video, the jury convicted the
mayor only of a misdemeanor, possession of cocaine. Says Mr.
Keyes: "You can't take a vocal spokesman {such as Mr.
Sharpton} as indicative of anything except maybe success at
attracting attention in the white media."
   Support from white liberals is certainly part of Mr.
Sharpton's success. He is building ties with left-leaning
white groups. Hours after yesterday's rough press conference
on the Harlem street, for example, he could be found in the
genteel offices of the Castillo Center, a SoHo cultural
organization whose supporters include many white citizens of
the bohemian neighborhood. Just a few doors down from where
the reverend and his oversized bodyguard are seated, a
painting of a black woman embracing an image of Vladimir
Ilyich Lenin hangs on the wall. "Black Plus Red Power" read
the words beside the image.
   Now that the defendants in the jogger case have been
convicted, what comes next? Mr. Sharpton wants a reform of
the justice system, and to keep New York "on the edge" until
things change. He says new leaders like him will replace
softer rights campaigners like the venerable National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People. Mayor
Dinkins "is very soft on the rights of his own people," he
says. He adds: "He {Mayor Dinkins} has marched all over the
world for Soviet Jewry, but he says I shouldn't march in
Bensonhurst."
   Some American black thinkers -- even conservative ones --
argue against writing off Mr. Sharpton as a buffoon. "I don't
think anyone represents all of black America," says Shelby
Steele, an English professor at San Jose State University in
California and author of a new book on the subject of race.
But, he adds, "the easiest thing on earth is to see Al
Sharpton as a kind of hustler . . . the press has failed to
look under the surface and see what he does represent" -- an
oppressed black underclass in America.
   Mr. Keyes sees it slightly differently. Blacks in America
may be in despair, he says, but it is a despair that in part
has been caused by the wrong attitude. The problem, he says,
is that all Americans -- white and black -- have seen blacks
as victims for too long. The result is a shortage of
confident black leaders. America turns to its Sharptons, Mr.
Keyes says, "because there's a lack of rebuttal."
   ---
   Miss Shlaes is deputy editorial features editor of The
Wall Street Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ENTERPRISE
   ----
   By John R. Emshwiller
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   More Franchises Get
   A Mexican Accent
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   MORE U.S. franchisers are expanding south of the border.
   Partly in response to a Mexican effort to encourage
franchising, 20 American franchisers so far this year have
registered to open units in Mexico -- matching the entire
1989 total, says Michael Brennan, a franchising attorney in
Chicago. Mr. Brennan and others say the figures suggest
Mexico eventually could rival Europe as a foreign destination
for U.S. firms.
   Kwik Kopy Corp., a Houston franchiser of photocopying
centers, recently signed an agreement to open 100 units in
Mexico over the next few years. The first is expected to
start up next month. Philadelphia's West Coast Video Inc., a
franchiser of video-rental stores, is seeking a Mexican
partner to open five units in Mexico City, with one
additional unit to open every six weeks thereafter.
   Until this year, Mexican law severely restricted the
control a foreign franchiser could exert over its
franchisees. But in January the government exempted such
businesses from many of the old rules and granted franchisers
an array of new powers.
   Mexico's growing middle class and favorable economic
trends and tax structure bode well for franchising in Mexico,
as does a free-trade agreement that the country is expected
to reach with the U.S. by the end of 1991.
   However, Mr. Brennan warns, "there are still some
problems." For example, Mexican law prohibits non-compete
clauses in contracts and forbids franchise agreements of any
kind that run for more than 10 years.
                                                                                                       

   Thriving Scams Aim
   At Small Companies
                                                                                                       

   INFLATABLE RAFTS have floated into the sea of small
business scams.
   The U.S. attorney in Los Angeles recently obtained fraud
convictions against two men who allegedly used telephone
boiler rooms to sell overpriced advertising trinkets to
small-business owners after telling each entrepreneur that he
was the winner of a new powerboat. The only "boat" ever sent
was a small, inflatable raft-like vessel that arrived in a
cardboard box, say the prosecutors.
   Telephone-marketing tricksters, mostly based in Southern
California, are still thriving despite increased efforts by
authorities, and many of their victims are entrepreneurs,
says Beverly Hills lawyer David A. Katz. He's the former head
of a multiagency government task force aimed at boiler-room
operators. Many scams involve selling nonexistent or
overpriced office supplies, he says, and small businesses are
particularly vulnerable because they often order more
informally.
   In Capitol Hill testimony last month, Mr. Katz told how
scamsters often develop a "mooch" -- a company insider bribed
to order thousands of dollars of pens, pads and other items.
   In another popular scam against small businesses, the
crook orders merchandise on credit, never pays and disappears
with the goods. Small-business owners should be particularly
wary of new customers who make a few small orders and then
suddenly start making giant ones, experts warn.
                                                                                                       

   Carving Out a Niche
   In Employee Training
                                                                                                       

   SMALL BUSINESSES thrive helping corporations with training
and education.
   "As technology proliferates into all aspects of the
workplace, corporations are busy retraining workers," says
venture capitalist Yuval Almog of AIA Ventures, Minneapolis.
"Much of that work will be farmed out to small, specialist
firms." Mr. Almog says he has invested in several such
startups.
   Authorware Inc., also of Minneapolis, recently received a
multimillion-dollar contract from American Airlines to
develop training tools for a broad spectrum of its employees.
Using Authorware's system, for instance, pilots can evaluate
the impact on takeoff of such variables as runway length,
wind velocity and aircraft weight. Northern Telecom Ltd. is
working with Authorware to develop ways to help employees
understand new technology.
   Multimedia technology -- combining text, graphics, video,
sound and animation -- "provides a level of realism and
simulation that traditional training means can't," says John
"Bud" Colligan, chief executive officer of Authorware and a
former Apple Computer executive.
   Meanwhile, salesmen and clients of database developer
Oracle Corp. are using software of Boston's Relational
Courseware Inc. for training. Big corporations have the
internal capability to provide training and education, but
"smaller companies often can do the same things faster and
cheaper," says John Carson, a former McKinsey &amp; Co.
consultant who launched his own start-up this year to help
corporations provide employees with parenting information.
Educational Publishing, Mr. Carson's start-up, publishes a
newsletter that Polaroid Corp. and Pacer Systems Inc. are
distributing to staff.

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   ENTREPRENEURS start young, says a survey of 1,000 small
businesses by United Group Information Services. The average
entrepreneur surveyed was about 29 years old when he or she
started a business, and 82% took the plunge before turning
40. . . . Boredom and burnout are the biggest reasons
business owners cite for selling their firms, says David R.
Hoods, division president of Geneva Cos., an Irvine, Calif.,
merger and acquisition services firm. Lack of capital and
absence of a child who wants to take over are the next
biggest reasons, he adds.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   YUVAL ALMOG is a partner of IAI Ventures, Minneapolis. The
company's name was misstated in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ Aug. 21, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Times Publishing Agrees to Buy Back
   Bass Group's 40% Stake, Ending Dispute
   ----
   By David B. Hilder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ridding itself of an unwanted and troublesome shareholder,
the parent of the St. Petersburg Times agreed to buy back the
40% stake owned by a group including Texas billionaire Robert
M. Bass.
   Under terms of a settlement announced Friday, Times
Publishing Co. and the Bass group agreed not to discuss
certain details of the buy-back, including its price. The
Florida newspaper company, however, is believed to have
agreed to pay between $50 million and $75 million for the
stake that the Bass group bought for about $28 million in
August 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Bass group will share 40% of its profits from the
Times Publishing investment with two nieces of the late
Nelson Poynter, who controlled the St. Petersburg Times from
1947 until his death in 1978. The Bass group purchased its
Times Publishing stock from the two nieces, who inherited the
stock from their mother, Mr. Poynter's sister. The nieces had
offered their shares to Times Publishing after their mother's
death in 1987, but Times Publishing offered a price as low as
$2.5 million.
   The buy-back ends a dispute between the Bass group and
Times Publishing over the paper's financial structure. The
dispute broke into public view last January when the Bass
group offered to buy the 60% of Times Publishing that it
didn't own for $270 million. Most of that 60% stake is owned
by the Poynter Institute for Media Studies, a St. Petersburg
educational foundation that the late Mr. Poynter set up to
avoid estate taxes and keep control of the newspaper in the
hands of local journalists.
   The Poynter Institute, whose chairman, Andrew Barnes, is
also editor of the St. Petersburg Times and chairman of Times
Publishing, rejected the Bass group offer. The Bass group
also sued Times Publishing and the Poynter Institute, seeking
to force the company to redeem a preferred stock issue on
which it has been paying dividends of more than 1,200% a
year. About 86% of the preferred dividends, amounting to more
than $3.2 million a year, go to the Poynter Institute.
   Though the Bass group pledged to continue funding the
Poynter Institute and said it would preserve the newspaper's
integrity and independence, the offer made Mr. Bass the
center of a storm of negative publicity as other journalists
questioned Mr. Bass's motives.
   Under the settlement, Times Publishing agreed to buy back
immediately from the Bass group an undisclosed amount of
stock, believed to be more than half the group's 40% stake.
Times Publishing has an option to buy, and the Bass group has
an option to sell, the rest of the Bass group's stake at the
same price three years from now. Mr. Barnes, who previously
said he viewed Mr. Bass as an unwelcome shareholder, is
virtually certain to cause Times Publishing to exercise its
option to buy the remaining shares from the Bass group. The
Bass group agreed to give Mr. Barnes the right to vote its
shares in the interim.
   Times Publishing agreed to redeem its preferred stock and
to "substantially increase" the dividends it pays on its
common stock over the next five years. The preferred shares
held by the Poynter Institute will be exchanged for a
long-term subordinated debenture that will pay annual
interest approximately equal to the amount of the preferred
dividends the institute currently receives. The principal
amount and interest rate of the debenture weren't disclosed.
   The Bass group agreed to drop its lawsuit and both sides
agreed to contribute $300,000 each to endow a professorship
in media ethics and press policy at the University of South
Florida in St. Petersburg. The gifts will be matched by
$420,000 from the state of Florida and the professorship will
be named after the late Eleanor Poynter Jamison, whose
daughters sold their stock to the Bass group.
   In a statement, David Bonderman, Mr. Bass's chief aide,
said, "We always believed this to be a good investment and
are happy we could work with Andy Barnes to help end a family
dispute that has brewed for years." Mrs. Jamison frequently
disagreed with Mr. Poynter's management of the newspaper, and
once sued him.
   Mr. Barnes said in a statement, "The agreement assures the
long-term independence, journalistic control and competitive
vigor of the St. Petersburg Times, as well as significant
ongoing financial support for the Poynter Institute. While
Times Publishing is incurring some debt, it will in no way
interfere with our operations, our staffing, our affiliates
or our growth."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arco, With Demand High,
   May Raise Gasoline Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   ARC
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Atlantic Richfield Co. said it is having
trouble meeting demand at the gasoline pump, and the oil
company appears to be preparing its customers for a potential
increase in prices.
   Arco, which froze its gas prices Aug. 8 in the wake of
President Bush's request that oil companies act responsibly
in pricing, said more than 270 of its stations have run out
of regular unleaded gasoline at some pumps during the past
week and a half. On average, Arco has been able to replenish
supplies in about 2 1/2 hours.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We want to hold on as long as we can to comply with the
president's request" on pricing, an Arco spokesman said. Arco
said last week that its freeze will remain in effect, but
that it will review pricing daily.
   Arco's regular unleaded gasoline is priced between four
and 12 cents below the competition's, and averages about
$1.16 a gallon in Los Angeles. As a result, sales volume at
the company's 1,700 stations, situated in five Western
states, has jumped about 9% since the price freeze. "As we
see volumes increase, we see more runouts," the spokesman
said. "And our inventories are tight."
   Arco gets most of its crude oil from its fields in Alaska
and refines it in Washington state and Southern California.
But the company has purchased gasoline on the spot market --
100,000 barrels so far -- because of the increased demand and
a fire last week at Arco's Carson, Calif., refinery that
temporarily cut gasoline production by about 15,000 barrels a
day. Production at that refinery was expected to be back to
normal today.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Black Box, Despite Its Glamour, Faces
   Major Obstacle as It Tries to Offer Stock
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   X.BLK
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- From an investor's point of view, Black Box
Inc. would seem to have a thing or two going for it. It
markets computer products, with all the potential pizazz that
implies. It is highly regarded, offering a wide selection of
parts by mail.
   But now, even as Black Box hopes to sell stock to the
public, the company is buckling under the debt of a leveraged
buy-out orchestrated two years ago by New York's Odyssey
Partners and the now-collapsed Drexel Burnham Lambert Group
Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's a black hole," says Roger McNamee, manager of T.
Rowe Price Associates' Science &amp; Technology Fund, after
studying disclosure documents for the proposed stock
offering. "Black Box is a great franchise buried in a whole
bunch of financial problems. It's hard to blame anybody
except Drexel and Odyssey," a firm widely regarded as a savvy
investor.
   Already in default on one loan, the company originally
planned a recapitalization to meet an Aug. 31 payment
deadline by raising $86 million through public offerings of
stock and convertible debt this month. But the plan, calling
for a 45% fully diluted stake to wind up in public hands, was
postponed two weeks ago as the stock market tumbled. Bankers
last week extended the company's grace period to Oct. 15.
   Even if market conditions improve, however, the offering
looks iffy, for prospective investors don't seem to be in any
hurry to bail out a struggling leveraged buy-out. "Their
financial reshaping should be handled in the private realm,"
says Alan Radlo, manager of the $734 million Fidelity OTC
Fund.
   Black Box's offering document says the company could end
up in bankruptcy court if the recapitalization isn't
completed within a reasonable period.
   Some large investors were strongly advised by Standard &amp;
Poor's analyst Mark Basham to avoid the offering, which had
an indicated price range of $12 to $14 a share for 4.5
million shares. "This is the dying gasp of a patient on the
operating table," says Mr. Basham. "I wouldn't find it
attractive at any price."
   Mr. McNamee isn't so sure. Tangled up in the "financial
mess" created by the LBO, he says, is a high-quality
cataloger and provider of computer equipment. The company has
a loyal following among professionals in charge of computer
systems at the nation's largest corporate offices, as well as
government and educational complexes.
   With 627 employees, Black Box publishes four catalogs of
computer products that in the year ended March 31 had a total
circulation of 4.5 million. It sells its own line of
equipment, including modems, cables, printer interfaces and
other computer parts, as well as other manufacturers'
products. With subsidiaries in Canada and Britain, it has an
international distribution network. The company is in the
process of moving its headquarters from Simi Valley, Calif.,
to its main facility in a Pittsburgh suburb.
   Black Box's franchise as the nation's leader in direct
marketing of computer products "could excite the public," Mr.
McNamee suggests. A shareholder of Black Box's predecessor
Micom Systems, Mr. McNamee says his fund "made a ton of
money" from that stock until its telecommunications equipment
business slowed in the mid-1980s. Now, he says, the catalog
business has developed into a secure and promising business.
   However, Mr. McNamee emphasizes that public investors
shouldn't have to undo the debt Black Box incurred two years
ago by "the unrealistic assumptions" of the LBO investors.
"It's obvious the original LBO was structurally flawed," he
says.
   Indeed, the $334 million, $16-a-share, buy-out of what was
then known as Micom Systems was heavily reliant on debt. As
part of the debt financing, a $138 million revolving credit
loan was provided by Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. The
company issued $110 million in senior subordinated
increasing-rate notes, which carried a rate of 16.19% as of
March 31. An additional $34 million came from selling various
preferred shares.
   Despite the sale of three subsidiaries, Black Box owed the
revolving credit line $80.5 million as of July 1. It also
owed the entire $110 million in notes. The company already
has defaulted on the revolving credit; on June 15, it missed
an interest payment on the notes.
   Annual revenue growth of at least 15% in the past three
years wasn't enough to offset the debt-service requirements.
Black Box's revenue grew to $107 million for fiscal 1990 from
$53.2 million four years earlier. However, at the same time
its interest expense jumped to $26.7 million from $134,000.
The company reported a loss applicable to common stock of
$33.9 million for the year, compared with profit of $5
million four years earlier.
   Black Box also says it has been hamstrung by the weakening
performance of Micom Communications Corp., a subsidiary that
makes low-cost data communications devices. That subsidiary
will be spun off to Odyssey Partners under the planned
recapitalization.
   In addition to the stock offering, the recapitalization
also calls for a concurrent offering of $35 million of
convertible debt, the buy-back of most of the notes and new
bank financing. Alex. Brown &amp; Sons is the lead underwriter of
the offering.
   A spokesman for Black Box (who also is a spokesman for
Odyssey), says the company was confident the IPO would be
successful before the stock market tumbled in early August.
While keeping an eye on the troubled market for signs of
improvement, Black Box will be looking for alternatives to a
public offering to satisfy the bankers and creditors, he
says. "They're nimble and creative. They'll come up with a
response."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks tumbled ahead of another weekend
of uncertainty about the Middle East.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 8.78, or 2.2%, Friday
to 393.49, its lowest level since mid-January 1989. Since its
peak of 485.73 last October, the index has fallen nearly 20%.
   Trading picked up, as 146.9 million shares changed hands,
up from 114.9 million Thursday. Declining stocks swamped
advancers, 1,616 to 522.
   Forschner Group slid 1 3/4 to 6 1/4 after the Shelton,
Conn., marketer of cutlery such as, Swiss Army knives, said
its 1990 earnings could be "substantially" below year-earlier
profit of 75 cents a share. Forschner cited the continued
weakness of the dollar against the Swiss franc. Meanwhile,
Boston-based FMR disclosed that it holds an 11.5% stake in
Forschner.
   Among the OTC gainers, Cisco Systems added 1 1/2 to 24 3/4
after the maker of computer network products reported that
net income for its fourth quarter, ended July 29, more than
doubled to 30 cents a share from 12 cents a year earlier.
   Biomet rose 1/2 to 30 after Standard &amp; Poor's said it is
adding the Warsaw, Ind., maker of surgical implant devices to
its index of America's 500 largest public companies. Stocks
normally benefit from a wave of buying when they are added to
the index, as funds based on the S&amp;P 500 buy the stock.
   Among OTC energy stocks, Noble Drilling rose 1/2 to 10
1/2, Hamilton Oil gained 3/8 to 40 1/8, DeKalb Energy Class B
shares advanced 1/4 to 28 3/4 and McFarland Energy added 1/8
to 10 5/8.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Said to Face Jump
   In Price of Oil From Iran
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Iran has secured an unusually large price
increase from Japanese customers on long-term contracts for
crude oil to be loaded between September and December,
industry sources said.
   The increases, which by previous agreement will apply to
other Asian buyers of Iranian crude, change the value of
Iranian oil so much that other Persian Gulf producers are
expected to raise their prices as well.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The Saudis will have to follow," said one trader, noting
that oil sold by Saudi Arabia and other producers, which like
Iranian oil is priced against Omani or Dubai crudes, will
otherwise seem inexpensive.
   Beginning in September, the price of Iranian Heavy, which
makes up the bulk of Japan's crude supplies from Iran, will
cost a monthly average price equivalent to the price of Dubai
Fateh crude plus 25 cents a barrel. That is an increase of
$1.40 a barrel from the price Iran obtained from Japan in
July and August.
   Iranian Light crude will cost a monthly average price
equivalent to the price of Omani crude plus 35 cents a
barrel, an increase of 60 cents a barrel over the current
price.
   The actual cost of the crude is even greater than the
increases suggest because of jumps in the prices of Omani and
Dubai crudes since the latest Middle East crisis began Aug.
2.
   Dubai crude has gained $7.40 a barrel in the past month.
If that price holds in September -- and many say it will go
even higher -- Japan will pay $8.80 a barrel more for Iranian
crude than it did in August.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Likely to Fall More Against Mark
   But Central Bank Intervention Is Unclear
   ----
   By Alison Woods
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar's slide to new lows against the
mark is expected to continue and traders say it is unclear
whether central banks will move to bolster the U.S. currency.
   Rumors of impending central bank intervention to prop up
the dollar ran through the currency markets last week as it
moved to a new postwar low of 1.5437 marks Thursday before
recovering slightly to 1.5495 marks late Friday, down more
than four pfennigs on the week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With the dollar's decline orderly, major central banks
haven't been seen intervening in the market.
   Currency market participants generally expect to see still
weaker dollar levels against the mark in coming weeks as
evidence of the U.S. economy's sluggishness continues to
mount.
   But since the dollar is in new territory, traders are
hesitant to predict just how low it might drop.
   "From a charting perspective, we're at previously unknown
levels," says Trevor Woodland, chief corporate trader at
Harris Trust &amp; Savings Bank in Chicago. "I tend to feel that
1.50 deutsche marks is an obvious psychological support
level, and I think we could go another two or three pfennigs
lower."
   The dollar's recent slide has reflected a weakening U.S.
economy -- apparent in recent reports on declining housing
starts and falling auto sales.
   The forecast for the U.S. economy is so gloomy that even
the Iraq-Kuwait crisis -- which under other circumstances
would have drawn strong "flight-to-quality" support for the
dollar -- isn't giving much of a boost to the dollar.
   Andrew Rojek, international market analyst at Merrill
Lynch &amp; Co., agrees that the 1.50-mark level is a critical
one for the dollar, and that the dollar could push even below
that. "If we break 1.50 convincingly, I look for 1.4890 as
the next target," he says. "But it's hard to say because we
haven't been there, ever."
   In spite of the central bank intervention rumors that have
persisted in the foreign exchange markets, analysts say the
dollar's weakness may not prompt central banks to support the
currency.
   They note that the weak dollar is one of the few things
the U.S. economy has going for it as it helps boost U.S.
exports. "I imagine the Fed is quite happy with the weak
dollar," says Graham Beale, chief trader at Hongkong &amp;
Shanghai Banking Corp. in New York.
   But traders say that if the dollar's drop gets out of
control, the central banks could step in.
   "What the central banks don't want to see is disorderly
markets," says Mr. Woodland of Harris Trust. "Whether the
authorities intervene depends less on how low the dollar goes
than on how it gets there."
   "Sliding half a pfennig to pfennig at a time, as the
dollar has been" doesn't represent a disorderly situation,
Mr. Woodland says.
   Mr. Beale agrees: "I think it would take a breaking of
1.50 marks, very aggressively, to prompt Federal Reserve or
other central bank intervention."
   While the dollar has hit new lows against the mark, it is
faring better against the yen, which is still dogged by
market concerns about the Japanese inflation rate and the
effect of rising oil prices on the Japanese economy.
   But analysts believe the yen is due to climb higher.
Merrill Lynch's Mr. Rojek forecasts that the dollar could
fall to as low as 146.80 yen soon, down from 147.58 yen in
New York late Friday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the dollar was quoted at
147.57 yen, up from Friday's close there of 147.35 yen.
Meanwhile, the dollar was at 1.5540 marks.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday, gold for
current delivery settled at $409.60 an ounce, up 40 cents.
Estimated volume was a very heavy seven million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Monday, gold was quoted at
$412.50 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   Iraq Crisis Shows U.S.'s Nonpareil Power,
   Yet Exposes Weakness in Economic Role
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- There hasn't been much doubt in recent days
about what nation is the most powerful. The Iraq crisis shows
that the U.S. is the only true superpower.
   All the talk about Japan or Germany being the new No. 1
has faded quickly -- at least for now. So has the idea that
military power became irrelevant with the collapse of
communism. These thoughts seem naive at a time when a
military force has risen in the Persian Gulf that threatens
the wealth on which Japanese and German clout has been built.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Only the U.S. has the means to move mass military force
around the globe in days and to rally numerous other nations
to the cause. And, for all its economic woes, the U.S. can
back up that military might with an economy far larger than
any rival's.
   "This crisis in the Gulf is the answer to the argument
that we've reached the end of history, that peace has broken
out, that military power doesn't matter and the only coin of
influence in the world is economic power," Harold Brown, a
former defense secretary, said. These popular claims are
being shown up as exaggerations.
   But no matter how good the crisis has made Americans feel
so far, with President Bush rallying support by making frank
allusions to stopping a new Hitler, it obscures the shift in
the world power game. Military might still counts, but there
is a new emphasis on economic strength, and the U.S. isn't
well prepared to retain that aspect of global leadership.
   Indeed, because the Iraq crisis puts such a premium on the
military means for protecting economic security, it could
divert Americans from the painful job of fixing the broken
U.S. economy so it can compete better world-wide. Even if Mr.
Bush succeeds in protecting Saudi Arabia and rolling Iraqi
President Saddam Hussein back out of Kuwait, he will pay
economically, because the venture adds to the burdensome
federal deficit and increases the odds of a recession.
   Meanwhile, America's chief economic competitors -- Japan,
the Pacific Rim nations, and Europe -- will enjoy the fruits
of the U.S. effort to secure reasonably priced oil, while
bearing little of the burden of carrying it out.
   Japan and Germany may take the unprecedented step of
sending a few minesweepers into the Persian Gulf, their first
foreign military ventures since World War II. And President
Bush has asked them to chip in funds to help poorer countries
cope with the embargo of Iraq. But none of the roles being
discussed for them would cost nearly as much as what the U.S.
will pay.
   "The question is what this does to economic relations,"
Mr. Brown said. "Japan and Germany do, in a sense, get a free
ride."
   Talk is increasing here about simply charging Tokyo and
Bonn for U.S. military services, but this would make the U.S.
troops little more than guns for hire. "We can't be
mercenaries," Mr. Brown said.
   James Schlesinger, a former secretary of defense and of
energy, said: "The crisis shows that sheer, raw military
power is a key dimension of power. No other country has it,
but it's pretty hard for us to charge others for it."
   Mr. Brown suggested that indirect payment might do. "We
should try to extract something in return, something that
would give us some economic advantage, like a greater opening
of the Japanese market," he said. But he added, "That isn't
very likely."
   For now, President Bush looks terrific. Even Moscow is
moving to join the U.S.-led effort against Iraq. But his real
test may be whether he can cope with economic realities as
well as military ones.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Electrolux's Brand of European Unity
   ---
   Firm Aims to Forge Common
   Refrigerator for Continent
   ----
   By William Echikson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4C
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP ELUXY
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   SUSEGANA, Italy -- Europe's statesmen are merely trying to
forge a common European market. Heikki Takanen dreams of
something even more elusive: a common European refrigerator.
   Northern Europeans tend to shop once a week in
supermarkets and demand large refrigerators; southern
Europeans, many of whom shop at open-air markets every few
days, generally prefer small ones. Northerners like their
fridges on the top and their freezers on the bottom;
southerners want just the opposite. And the English, who are
big consumers of frozen foods, complicate things further by
insisting on units with 60% freezer space.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "National stereotypes really exist," says Mr. Takanen,
vice president for "cold" products at Sweden's Electrolux AB.
Noting the variety of regional preferences in color and
design, he adds, "Our task is to take this fragmented market
and unify it as much as possible."
   In this, Mr. Takanen is at the cutting edge of an idea
transforming European business. A number of market
strategists have argued that with the advent of a unified
European Community after 1992, national markets in Europe
will resemble those of the American states. In many product
categories, they insist, only big, powerful companies will be
able to compete effectively across borders to serve all 325
million consumers and exploit fully the resulting economies
of scale.
   The saga of Electrolux's experience with refrigerators
illustrates some of the potential rewards and perils of
efforts toward Pan-Europeanization. It also shows that, at
least for now, the U.S. model doesn't quite apply to Europe.
   Over the past six years, Electrolux has attempted to
streamline its operations by concentrating component
purchasing, eliminating production overlaps, pooling research
efforts and centralizing much of its marketing. However, the
company still operates six refrigerator factories in Europe
(it has closed two), sells products under 40 brand names and
produces 120 basic designs with 1,500 variants. In fact, it
has launched new specialty refrigerators to appeal to certain
market niches.
   "You'll never have one plant in the middle of Europe
producing for the entire Continent," concedes Mr. Takanen.
"You just can try to standardize a lot and create synergies."
   In the U.S., more than 80% of all refrigerators have their
freezers on top, and most come in one standard size. And for
the most part, the units turned out by America's factories
are sold under a handful of national brands. It is a
high-volume, low-margin business that demands ruthless
efficiency to succeed.
   Electrolux is indeed big and efficient. It has 135 sales
companies and 43 factories in 15 countries. Its corporate
headquarters are located just outside Stockholm, and it has a
total 152,900 employees. It produces about six million
refrigerators a year -- half of them in North America, half
in Europe. With some 25% of the European refrigerator market,
it holds twice the share of its nearest competitor.
   Electrolux's efforts are appreciated even by those most
skeptical about Pan-Europeanization. In a 1987 paper on the
home-appliance industry, J.M. Stopford of the London Business
School argued that it was more profitable for companies to
concentrate on their home markets than to confront different
national tastes and tackle Europe as a whole.
   Now, he says, "Electrolux has changed the rules of the
game. When I looked at the industry in 1987, national rules
dominated, and the international players were less
profitable. They had a hard time coping with a changing
market. My reading now is that the one-country position is
too vulnerable and that Electrolux's investments are
beginning to pay off."
   Electrolux had little choice but to go Pan-European.
Unlike British, French, German or Italian companies, it found
its Swedish base too small to allow concentratation on a home
market. In the early 1960s, the company came close to
bankruptcy as its absorption refrigerators were unable to
compete with the new compressor models developed by such
competitors as N.V. Philips and Siemens AG.
   Electrolux saved itself with a series of acquisitions that
improved its technology and gave it a strong presence
throughout Scandinavia. By the 1980s, it was branching out
across the rest of Europe. But its refrigerators were still
being manufactured in plants with specialized assembly lines
and with local brands, designs and distribution networks.
Leif Johansson, as head of the major-appliance division at
the time, thought much more could be done.
   Mr. Johansson, now 38 and an executive vice president for
household appliances, said, "To us, the obvious lesson was
that our products could become more and more international."
   His theory was soon tested when the financially troubled
Italian appliance maker Industrie Zanussi S.p.A. asked
Electrolux for help in the form of a small investment in the
company. Mr. Johansson responded with a buy-out proposal,
which was approved by Electrolux Chairman Anders Scharp.
   Traditionally, Electrolux had structured its operations
nation by nation. But after the Zanussi acquisition was
completed in 1984, most activities were reorganized into
international product divisions -- "wet" for washing
machines, "hot" for stoves and microwave ovens, "cold" for
refrigerators and freezers. Each division is now run by a
manager based in Stockholm, under Mr. Johansson's overall
supervision.
   As Electrolux has rethought its approach to production, it
has closed two of eight factories in Europe. The six that
remain include a small factory in Spain producing about
350,000 units a year, one in England producing 300,000 a year
and one in Finland producing only 160,000 a year.
   "The Finns have their own type of kitchen, and they are
nationalistic -- they want their fridges made there," Mr.
Takanen asserts. While it might make more sense economically
to close such operations, he adds, "the idea, rather, is to
try and tie our factories into an international network and
gain efficiencies that way."
   Such a strategy has required developing new products for
market niches -- another factor that complicates Electrolux's
broader consolidation efforts. Earlier this year, the Finnish
factory started making the Quattro, a $1,300 deluxe
refrigerator with four doors and three separate temperature
compartments. Mr. Takanen expects that about 20% of the
company's European production soon will consist of such
specialty high-end models, and that this niche production
will permit some plants to reach an efficient production
level at only 300,000 units annually.
   For the other 80% of production, much higher levels of
output remain crucial. Electrolux has poured money into a
flexible manufacturing system for its plant in Susegana, 40
miles north of Venice. Workers prepare kits of different
component combinations that are then added to standard
shells. The factory, which turns out 1.2 million
refrigerators a year, or 4,200 a day, can retool quickly
enough to produce its entire range of 1,000 combinations
within a week.
   Another area of focus for Electrolux has been trying to
standardize sales and marketing across the Continent. After
its various acquisitions, the firm found itself with a
proliferation of European brands, as well as the
international brands Zanussi and Electrolux. Even the latter
had varying images in different markets: In Britain, for
example, Zanussi claimed upscale cachet, while in Sweden it
was considered middle of the market.
   To address this problem, Electrolux grouped all the
different brands into four families. Two of the lines, Alpha
Electrolux and Delta Zanussi, are sold and advertised in
similar ways throughout Europe, while the other two, Beta and
Gamma, represent collections of national brands advertised
and sold differently.
   "We can sell these two fridges anywhere in Europe," argues
Roberto Pezzetta, their designer. "It isn't important whether
the customer lives in Munich or Milan. What's important is
their life style, not their geography."
   But insists Fulvio Cazzio, regional marketing manager for
German-speaking countries and Hungary, "Our markets still are
local; there are language barriers and different distribution
systems. In Italy, it's distribution and price which count,
while in Germany it's products and test results."
   Mr. Takanen begs to differ. He points to a Europe-wide
trend toward smaller families made up of two wage earners who
live in single-family housing and have the means to travel.
"The markets," he maintains, "are beginning to merge."
   Such differences of opinion underline the daunting
challenges for the company whose profit plummeted 41% last
year.
   "Coordination of marketing and distribution activities and
the development of a new transnational organization have
turned out to be more complicated than we foresaw," Mr.
Scharp, chairman of the company, conceded in announcing the
disappointing results.
   The setback won't thwart Electrolux's ambitious plans.
   "Electrolux has started a trend towards Europeanization
which can't be reversed," notes Bill Coleman, an analyst at
the British brokerage firm James Capel &amp; Co. "Appliances are
a cyclical industry, and they're well positioned for the next
upturn."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Justice Agency Gives Nod
   To Offshore Pipelines Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OFP HAL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department filed a consent
decree that would allow Offshore Pipelines Inc. to complete
its proposed acquisition of marine-construction vessels and
other assets from Brown &amp; Root Inc., a unit of Halliburton
Co., for about $80 million.
   The decree would settle an antitrust suit also filed
Friday that challenged the acquisition. The agreement
requires Offshore Pipelines, based in Houston, to divest
itself of two Brown &amp; Root barges used for laying or burying
oil and gas pipes offshore.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   James Rill, head of the Justice Department's antitrust
division, said that without the divestiture, the proposed
acquisition would be anti-competitive in the U.S. portion of
the Gulf of Mexico.
   Offshore Pipelines' sale of the barges, Mr. Rill said,
"will ensure that the acquisition of Brown &amp; Root's vessels
by OPI will not raise the cost of offshore oil and gas
exploration and production" in the gulf, and will create more
competition in that market.
   Dallas-based Halliburton said it will realize a pretax
gain of about $33 million for the sale.
   The assets include 23 derrick, pipelay and other marine
construction vessels, as well as interest in certain marine
construction support facilities in the Far East and the U.S.
The sale of a marine construction facility in the Middle East
to Offshore Pipelines is expected to be completed later this
year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trump Is Stalled
   On Bailout Ruling;
   Griffin Plan Passes
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   RT.A X.TMP
</CO>
<IN>
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. -- The New Jersey Casino Control
Commission delayed a decision on Donald Trump's $65 million
bank bailout until tomorrow and approved Merv Griffin's plan
to have Resorts International Inc. emerge from bankruptcy-law
protection.
   Following the commission's meeting Friday, Mr. Trump's
lawyers said they doubted the delay would cause any of about
90 banks participating in Mr. Trump's restructuring to
withdraw approval.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Should the commission reject the bailout tomorrow, it will
come as a major surprise and a setback to Mr. Trump who,
documents prepared by his accounting firm show, needs the $65
million to continue day-to-day operations.
   If the bank deal is completed, Mr. Trump is expected next
to tackle a restructuring of $1.3 billion in casino bonds he
issued to finance his Atlantic City empire. "I expect war
with the bondholders," Mr. Trump said Friday. "But I think
things will work out well for both sides."
   For Mr. Griffin, the commission's action marks a possible
turning point in his ill-fated foray into the casino
business. Mr. Griffin purchased Resorts in 1988 after a
takeover battle with Mr. Trump. Within less than a year, the
company failed to make interest payments on about $925
million in junk bond debt and was forced to seek
bankruptcy-law protection. Adding to Mr. Griffin's troubles,
Mr. Trump was quoted frequently saying he had bested Mr.
Griffin in their negotiations.
   Included in the Resorts plan is a $5 million litigation
trust fund to pursue possible lawsuits against Mr. Trump
stemming from the Resorts sale.
   Mr. Griffin said he harbored no animosity toward Mr. Trump
and wished him well through his current troubles. "The irony
of the whole thing is that it boiled down to today, in the
same room," Mr. Griffin said. "How did he end up in such
trouble in the morning and me in such great shape in the
afternoon?"
   Mr. Griffin will pay a significant price for getting out
of bankruptcy-law protection. Under the restructuring plan
put together by Salomon Brothers Inc., Mr. Griffin will cede
about 78% of the equity in the company to bondholders and put
up an additional $28.5 million. As part of its plan, the
company intends to sell its Paradise Island property in the
Bahamas.
   In addition to the new equity, some bondholders will
receive deferred interest notes that will alleviate the
company's debt burden and allow it to accumulate cash.
   "They're not out of the woods yet, but the deal will help
stabilize the company," said Kaye Handley, an analyst with
Sass Lamle &amp; Rubin who specializes in distressed securities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Whose Wetlands Mistake?
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   "To the Journal, Pozsgai was a `flabbergasted truck
mechanic' who discovered to his sorrow `how little regard the
Environmental Protection Agency has for property rights' . .
. Balderdash] The Journal's indignation should be focused on
a better cause. The only flabbergasting aspect of this case
can be found in the defendant's flabbergasting contempt for
the law.
   -- James J. Kilpatrick, "Don't Cry for Mr. Pozsgai," in
the Washington Post, January 30, 1990.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The government's brief in the Court of Appeals asserted
that the aerial photographs introduced at trial showed the
stream flowing into the canal. That representation, we have
now determined, was inaccurate. We have examined the
photographs and determined that they do not show the stream
flowing into the canal . . . In sum, the record is admittedly
quite thin with regard to the two elements needed to
establish federal jurisdiction {over Mr. Pozsgai's property}.
   -- Solicitor General Kenneth Starr, in a recent Supreme
Court brief.
   ---
   The story of John Pozsgai will stand as a cautionary tale
in the current age of environmental zealotry. Solicitor
General Starr recently acknowledged that federal prosecutors
misrepresented facts to the U.S. Court of Appeals in their
"wetlands" case against John Pozsgai (the subject of a
Journal editorial, "Property Busters," January 11).
   Mr. Pozsgai was sentenced to three years in prison, five
years probation and a fine of $202,000 for placing topsoil
and clean fill on a part of his property that was considered
"wetland" by the EPA. Apparently, Mr. Pozsgai needed a permit
to develop the site, which before he bought it was a landfill
and dumping ground for tires and rusted auto parts. The
government considered most of the dumpsite "wetland," even
though it is not listed in the National Wetland Inventory
Map, and it is not a "marsh, swamp or bog" under the
regulatory definition of "wetland."
   The Justice Department in court claimed that the EPA had
jurisdiction over Mr. Pozsgai's private property because of a
tiny stream adjacent to the property. Justice and the EPA
claimed that the stream flowed into the Pennsylvania Canal,
which is used for "interstate commerce." Justice also claimed
that aerial photographs of Mr. Pozsgai's property showed that
the stream flowed into the canal, creating federal
jurisdiction.
   Well, it turns out that the photographs showed no such
thing. Mr. Starr also says that the fine given to Mr. Pozsgai
by the district court might have been a mistake. Mr.
Pozsgai's lawyers at the Washington Legal Foundation hope
this admission by Justice will move the Supreme Court to hear
the case.
   The blunt use of the "wetland" statute in the Pozsgai case
reflects a troublesome tendency of the environmental movement
to use the full weight of the law and its own heavy arrogance
to bludgeon those who stand in its path.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Brazilian State-Run Firms
   To Be Sold to Cut Deficit
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRASILIA, Brazil -- The government said it would shortly
sell 10 state-run companies and its minority holdings in one
petrochemical plant and two major petroleum refineries in an
effort to streamline Brazil's economy and reduce a national
deficit of $31 billion.
   The sale of state companies is a key to the sweeping
economic reforms announced March 16 by President Fernando
Collor de Mello.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The package, which froze $115 billion in savings accounts
and money market deposits for 18 months and made deep cuts in
spending, curbed record inflation of almost 5,000% a year.
   The companies, including some steel concerns were expected
to bring between $9 billion and $10 billion in revenue, said
Eduardo Modiano, head of the government's commission on
privatizing state firms.
   Mr. Collor, who took office March 15, also promised to
sell 200 state-run enterprises with a combined debt of $62
billion by 1992.
   Brazilian law permits foreign investors to purchase up to
40% of investment shares with voting rights. Foreign
investors can buy 100% of a company's shares without voting
privileges.
   Foreign companies with subsidiaries in Brazil can use the
frozen new cruzados blocked in the Central Bank under the
plan to purchase shares with no limits.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Malaysia Seeks to Turn Sleepy Island
   Into a Prosperous Offshore Tax Haven
   ----
   By Stephen Duthie
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4B
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LABUAN, Malaysia -- This sleepy Malaysian free port off
Borneo's north coast hardly conjures up visions of an
international offshore financial center. But Prime Minister
Mahathir Mohamad's government sees just that.
   Mr. Mahathir's ruling National Front has big plans to
develop the 78-square-kilometer island into a tax haven along
the lines of Caribbean and European financial shelters that
enjoy low-tax regimes and minimal government regulation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many analysts, however, say the plans may be too grand and
the rivalry among global financial centers too intense for
Labuan to meet Kuala Lumpur's expectations in the near
future. They also note that the Asian-Pacific region already
offers a plethora of tax incentives for investors.
   The linchpin in efforts to transform the island is a
package of six pieces of legislation designed to spur a
flurry of financial activity. They are expected to become law
soon.
   Supporters of the Mahathir plan note that Labuan is
advantageously located. Though air links are minimal, the
island is only several hours' flight from Hong Kong and
Singapore. Proponents also expect Labuan to appeal to jittery
Hong Kong executives and financiers seeking new legal
domiciles for their operations before China regains
sovereignty over the British colony in 1997.
   But skeptics argue that Labuan needs more than location
and investment incentives. They note the dearth of
telecommunications, travel, lodging, office and recreational
facilities on the island, not to mention personnel. Labuan's
population largely lacks the education and training required
to staff financial concerns.
   In addition, financial and tax consultants cite
inconsistencies and unspecified fees in the various bills.
   "I've told my clients to sit tight," says a Kuala Lumpur
lawyer, who predicts that the hastily drafted legislative
measures will undergo extensive revisions in the years ahead.
   Many have faith, though. Arjunan Subramaniam, director of
tax services for Arthur Andersen's Malaysian unit and an
adviser to the government on the project, says, "You have to
take the first step; you have to begin somewhere. It'll take
about 30 years to make it a fully developed tax haven."
   Labuan was ceded to the central authorities in April 1984
by the Sabah state government, then led by Chief Minister
Harris Salleh. Since that time, the federal government has
faced increasing public pressure from East Malaysians to make
something of the island. Ill-conceived industrial projects
under the Harris administration have saddled Labuan with
heavy debt, and its economy is largely dependent on the
socalled barter trade with Filipino merchants and others.
   Mr. Mahathir opted to pursue the taxhaven route some five
years ago, consultants say. But it wasn't until he pressed
the relevant government ministries in November to draft the
necessary legislation by this year that the plans began to
take shape.
   Among other things, the bill stipulates that offshore
concerns involved in so-called non-trading activities would
pay no tax at all. Such activities are defined mainly as
investments in securities, loans, deposits and immovable
properties, such as buildings. And as an inducement to
attract professionals and contractors to Labuan, accounting
and law firms, as well as construction companies, would have
only 50% of their profits subject to Malaysia's 35%
corporate-tax rate for the next five years.
   Other inducements for offshore companies would include
exemption from stamp duties; no withholding tax on interest,
royalties and technical fees; no tax on dividends to
beneficiaries and shareholders of the concerns; and relaxed
restrictions on the granting of multiple-entry visas to
foreigners working for the concerns.
   The legislation would also safeguard the secrecy
requirements of the banks' clients, a requisite of most tax
havens.
   One part of the legislation, the Offshore Companies Bill,
has been criticized as being cumbersome and time-consuming.
The longest of the measures at 129 pages, the bill spells out
the incorporation, registration and administration of
offshore companies in Labuan. Critics note that other tax
havens, such as the British Virgin Islands and the Cayman
Islands, permit the registration of companies in about a day.
They fear it would take several months to fulfill all the
provisions in the Malaysian bill.
   Government consultants say the legislative package, with a
few expectations, would meet the needs of companies and
individuals seeking a low-tax regime for certain operations
in Southeast Asia. But they caution that today's
sophisticated global telecommunications network also means
that they can just as easily use other tax havens.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   European Accountants Are Angered
   By Curbs on Practicing in the U.S.
   ----
   By William Echikson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3C
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   When Robert Jenvey was transferred to New York, he already
had worked for seven years as a chartered accountant in
England. But under U.S. regulations, he wasn't qualified to
practice accountancy.
   "It's ridiculous. I cannot sign an audit opinion or become
a partner in my firm," complains an angry Mr. Jenvey, who
works for Coopers &amp; Lybrand. "I found it hard even to get
permission to take the certified public accountant exam."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Jenvey's difficulties are part of a trans-Atlantic
dispute over recognition of professional qualifications.
While the U.S. government says it wants to liberalize trade
in services, including the mutual recognition of professional
qualifications, Europeans complain that the U.S. market is
much more closed than their own.
   "The U.S. is being hypocritical," argues John Hegarty,
secretary general of the Federation des Experts Comptables
Europeens, a Brussels-based group representing European
accountants. "If it wants to continue beating up on Japan and
Europe about trade liberalization, it should first make sure
that it is not committing sins."
   By itself, the quarrel over accountants' qualifications
may seem minor, concerning only an estimated 3,000 Europeans
living in the U.S. But it illustrates the difficulties in
liberalizing trade in services -- the fastest-growing part of
world commerce. Such liberalization represents one of the
major goals in current negotiations under the auspices of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The talks, now at a
critical stage, are scheduled to be completed by December.
   "The accountants issue is a standard problem for the
services negotiations," says David Woods, GATT spokesman.
"Everyone has high expectations that agreements will achieve
miracles overnight. The reality is that regulatory controls
will remain with us for a long time."
   When the current GATT round opened in 1986, it was the
U.S. that pushed hardest to expand trade liberalization to
services. The U.S. figured it was efficient in services, and
wanted to guarantee the right to establish a service business
in a foreign country.
   Until that time, GATT had focused only on bringing down
tariffs on manufactured goods. The Europeans initially were
more reticent about opening trade in services.
   But, spurred by the program to create a unified European
Community market by the end of 1992, they now have taken the
lead, while Washington, under pressure from strong
civil-aviation and maritime-transport lobbies, has
backtracked and called for the exclusion of entire sectors
from any new GATT agreement.
   "Overall, the U.S. has been a prime mover for
liberalization in services," Mr. Woods says. "But as soon as
you get down to the details, things become less clear."
   Take accountants. The EC Commission has issued under the
1992 program a directive giving accountants from any EC
country the right to practice in another EC nation. A British
chartered accountant who moves to West Germany still must
demonstrate knowledge of West German law and accounting
practices by taking a test, but he cannot be denied the right
to take the test. This move represents a significant
breakthrough, because, compared with some other professions,
accounting standards don't differ much from country to
country.
   "It's not like lawyers, who face fundamental differences
of jurisdiction," says Andrew Coloqhum, secretary-general of
the London-based Association of Chartered Accountants. "For
accountants, veterinarians, architects and other professions,
the major corpus of knowledge translates across borders and
qualifications of equal standards should be accepted."
   But in the U.S., six states or territories -- from North
Carolina to Guam -- preclude foreigners from taking their CPA
exam. "All we're asking for in the U.S. is a similar right as
we have won in Europe, "Mr. Coloqhum says. "We're not asking
for the U.S. to abandon its CPA requirements, just to make
them accessible."
   In private, a U.S. trade official concedes that the
restrictions on foreigners are protectionist and must be
eliminated under any new GATT agreement. But the same
official rejects European complaints about different
requirements among the different states. An accountant
certified in California, for example, has no rights in New
York. And while it is fairly straightforward for a foreigner
to take the CPA exam in California, it is difficult in New
York.
   "In many service sectors, the Europeans complain that
state regulations are a barrier, that they have to go through
the same process 50 times," the official says. But, "this is
not itself a barrier because Americans themselves face the
same regulations."
   Europeans see the issue differently. They don't like how
certain states -- such as New York -- require CPA applicants
to hold many university credits in liberal-arts subjects
before they are permitted to take the exam. Partly as a
result of such requirements, Mr. Jenvey wound up taking the
California CPA exam even though he lives in New York.
   "It's bizarre. You can only suppose that such different
rules are designed to close the market," says Mr. Jenvey, who
chairs the U.S. chapter of the Association of Chartered
Accountants. "I have a university degree in engineering, I've
worked full-time as an accountant, and yet I still had to go
back to school before I could take the CPA exam."
   Many U.S. accountants agree. Charlie Heeter of Arthur
Andersen &amp; Co. in Washington has begun working with European
counterparts to develop a single set of guidelines for mutual
recognition of accounting credentials. He says that big
international accounting firms favor a simplified procedure
for recognizing national qualifications.
   "Traditionally, the accounting profession in America has
been domestically oriented and the professional societies
haven't considered the issue seriously," Mr. Heeter says.
"Big firms like us want to do all that is possible to make it
easier for accountants to practice in other countries. After
all, we practice around the world."
   These soothing words provide little solace for Mr. Jenvey,
who still cannot sign audit opinions in New York. Like many
other European accountants, he says he settled in New York
because it is the "world's financial capital, the most
exciting place in the world to practice accountancy." Now,
after years of difficulties, he is waiting for the results of
the test he took in California. Although he has no immediate
plans to practice accounting there, he thinks the added
credential will make it easier for him to work in the U.S. in
general.
   But Mr. Jenvey doesn't expect any breakthrough at GATT to
make it easier for other European accountants to gain
accreditation in the U.S.
   "Total reciprocity: That's the ultimate, and we'll never
have it," he says. "People are too protective, they'll never
accept an automatic entry ticket."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Young Democrats Emerge as the Life
   Of the Party in Hungary's Parliament
   ----
   By William Echikson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BUDAPEST, Hungary -- Peter Molnar, 26 years old, is a
fresh-faced, fair-haired student who lives at home with his
mother. He's also an important member of the Hungarian
parliament.
   "This is a bit difficult to believe," he admits during a
break in the parliamentary proceedings, to which he has worn
blue jeans and an open-collar shirt. "I should be taking my
exams just right now."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   His defiant generation helped lead the charge through the
streets of Eastern Europe last year toppling politically
bankrupt Communist regimes. But last spring, Hungarian
students made their impact through a quieter, more
traditional sort of revolution -- an election.
   The Federation for Young Democrats won 22 of 366
parliamentary seats in March's national legislative
elections, and a spot in the next Guinness Book of World
Records. (Fidesz is the only political party with an age
limit, 35, in a freely elected parliament.) And since the
election, its deputies have impressed observers by providing
the sharpest opposition to Hungary's ruling center-right
coalition.
   `The youngsters are real pros," says Andras Banki, deputy
editor in chief of the Budapest daily Magyar Nemzet. "The
government talks in vague generalities. Fidesz spells out the
specifics."
   Fidesz also has injected another invaluable element into
Hungary's budding democracy: humor. The youths, who prefer
jeans and long hair to suits and ties, judged the inaugural
session stiff and boring. So, at the following session they
placed an orange on each deputy's desk. "Orange is our
color," explains Mr. Molnar, pointing to an orange button
pinned to his shirt. "It's fresh and invigorating."
   When the first deputy rose to speak, his orange provoked
giggles by rolling off his desk. A second deputy began to
intone, only to be interrupted by the screech of buzzers.
   "What is going on?," demanded the parliamentary president.
   "It's only the oranges," responded Fidesz leader Viktor
Orban. "They hit the buzzers."
   "We all try to be so serious and then these youngsters
come along," complains Balint Magyar, 38, a deputy from the
Free Democratic Party. "They shout, they applaud, they beat
their desks."
   Of course, Hungary isn't the only country with exasperated
adults. Lech Walesa, father of Poland's Solidarity trade
union movement, has complained often about the radicalism of
his younger followers. "The young are always more simple and
direct in their way of expressing themselves," Mr. Walesa
says. "They say, `Oh, this old man speaks too much.'"
   For Fidesz, however, being "simple and direct" has proved
effective. The group was founded by law students in 1988 as
an alternative to the Communist Youth League. Its members
quickly built a radical platform on such issues as
environmental protection, the right to refuse military
service as a conscientious objector, and the withdrawal of
Soviet troops from Hungary. Veteran Hungarian opposition
groups at the time avoided the sensitive issue of Soviet
troops.
   There always was a humorous side to Fidesz's radicalism.
The group mimicked the "happenings" of a Polish dissident
youth group named Orange Alternative, staging events such as
a birthday party for Stalin at the Budapest zoo. The youths
wore red, waved flags with Bolshevik slogans and sang
Stalinist hymns in front of the chimpanzee cage.
   Satiric at times, the pranksters are deadly serious about
their ideals. While most politicians still were temporizing
in 1988 and 1989 about the need for a "middle road" between
capitalism and communism, Fidesz stood with those who
demanded pure Western-style democracy. "Democracy works in
Western Europe and the United States," Mr. Molnar said at the
time. "Why shouldn't it work here?"
   Such ideas were not appreciated by the Communist
authorities, who responded to Fidesz's founding by declaring
the group illegal and threatening to expel its leaders from
the university and imprison them. But the students stood
their ground, and the authorities backed down. Within a few
months, Fidesz had attracted more than 2,000 members, and
within a year it had about 10,000. That apparently was enough
to impress President Bush, who insisted on meeting Mr. Molnar
and his friends when he visited Budapest last summer.
   Then, in January, in a decision that initially divided the
movement, Fidesz turned itself into a political party,
announcing it would post candidates for the March elections.
"We feared that everyone would laugh at us," Mr. Molnar
admits. "I myself hesitated for a long time between running
or continuing my studies."
   But once the decision had been made, the group devised a
clever, courageous campaign. Their slogan was "Listen to your
heart and vote for Fidesz." They plastered the country with
posters showing, on top, the late Soviet leader Leonid
Brezhnev embracing former East German leader Erich Honecker
and, below, a young couple kissing. The caption read: "Who
would you choose?"
   "The campaign was so serious, so heavy," Mr. Orban
recalls. "We loosened up the style."
   On election day, Fidesz found support among young and old
voters. Television showed Hungary's oldest citizen, a
106-year-old woman, casting her ballot for Fidesz.
   "They won because they are so cute," says Agnes Major, who
soon will be a grandmother. "All mothers would want to have
them as their children."
   When the ballots were counted in the first round, Fidesz
had won 9% of the vote, just less than the Communists' 10%.
The most votes went to Democratic Forum, which took 25%, just
ahead of the Free Democrats with 21%. In a startling result
in one district, Fidesz candidate Jozsef Szajer finished more
than 10 percentage points ahead of Communist leader Imre
Pozsgay. The district was won by a Democratic Forum
candidate, however. "I underestimated them," Mr. Pozsgay says
of Fidesz. "They were very well-prepared young men, strong
opponents."
   In parliament, Fidesz deputies have shown they can be
effective. When the governing Democratic Forum struck a deal
with the Free Democrats to rewrite the constitution and elect
Arpad Gompac as president, Fidesz deputies led the
opposition, proposing 19 amendments and asking pointed
questions that suggested the democratic process was being
subverted. More than a dozen of their amendments were
eventually accepted, including one that enshrined property
ownership as a "natural human right." "We got the idea from
Jefferson," says Mr. Orban.
   "They embarrassed us," says Janos Kis, leader of the Free
Democrats. "As a bigger party, we have to show more
responsibility, and as a smaller party, they are freer to
criticize."
   Indeed, when Prime Minister Jozef Antall presented his new
government to parliament as a "government of national
renewal," Fidesz's Mr. Orban again stepped up and objected.
He asked why the government hadn't announced any serious plan
for dealing with the deteriorating economy.
   "It's not a government of national renewal," he told his
fellow legislators. "It's a government of national
say-nothing."
   "They're so bright," moans an admiring Mr. Kis. "They
attack the government in a tough, sarcastic way."
   The party has even challenged press magnates Rupert
Murdoch and Robert Maxwell, who each have taken control of a
newspaper in Budapest, and West German media giant Axel
Springer AG, which has taken over six provincial newspapers.
As a result of the takeovers, Fidesz forced the creation of a
parliamentary commission to investigate purchases of
Hungarian newspapers by foreigners. The commission already
has blocked the purchase of one Budapest paper. "We're going
to stop these shenanigans," says Mr. Molnar, who represents
Fidesz on the committee. "A new law is needed to regulate
press takeovers."
   But as he debates the fate of multimillion-dollar
takeovers, Mr. Molnar has another pressing challenge: finding
an apartment. Budapest has a terrible shortage of housing. Of
Fidesz's 22 deputies, ranging in age from 23 to 33, six still
are enrolled in college and seven live at home.
   "Now that I'm a deputy," Mr. Molnar says, "it's becoming
harder to live with my mom."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Oil Disarmament
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (INR)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Energy Department's response to Saddam Hussein last
week amounted to a seasonally adjusted version of Jimmy
Carter in his green cardigan making his famous plea for
conservation. Top item on the department's agenda is for
Americans to inflate automobile tires to their recommended
pressure, with carpooling, vanpooling and tuneups secondary
weapons in the arsenal to reduce oil demand. As silly as all
this sounds, the full measure of the sublime here is that the
words "Alaska" and "Point Arguello" are nowhere to be found
in Energy's program.
   The first principle remains that the idea of domestic
"independence" from foreign oil is as misplaced now as it was
in the 1970s. Last we looked, oil remained a fungible
commodity, so it makes no difference to price where the
supply originates. That said, it makes a lot of sense for
countries that have reserves in the ground to tap them to
make up for the oil from Iraq and Kuwait that has now been
quarantined. The U.S. alone had bought about 600,000 barrels
of oil daily from these two countries. We now import about
half our crude oil, a new record, while domestic output has
fallen to a 30-year low.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As Energy's oddball demand-side suggestions make clear, if
we are going to close the gap between energy supply and
demand, the place to start is with supply. Just as clearly,
this means finding the will to disarm the environmentalists.
As a colleague at Barron's put it last week, the
environmentalists who have been so successful at getting
politicians and judges to block development of American
reserves have unwittingly become "Saddam's secret weapon."
   The Interior Department recently finished a five-year
study requested by Congress to identify the "best single
opportunity to increase significantly domestic oil
production." No surprise about the source: Alaska, or more
precisely what is officially known as the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge. This is a vast coastal plain of some 1.5
million acres in the remote northeast part of the state,
about 65 miles east of the North Slope. Interior estimates
recoverable reserves of as many as nine billion barrels,
enough eventually to account for some 20% of domestic
production. Despite cries of despoilation, oil industry
estimates are that exploration and drilling would occur on
just 15,000 acres, about 23 square miles.
   The good news is that there are five bills in Congress on
leasing some of this Arctic land for exploration. The bad
news is that two of these bills are environmentalist-backed
bans on development. Worse, none of the bills that would open
the area to serious exploration has gotten anywhere in
Congress despite various committees holding more than 20
hearings.
   The so-called compromise bill on exploration in Alaska
reflects the pre-Saddam view that there is a free lunch when
it comes to the environment. This House bill would allow
drilling of only four exploratory wells. A time-consuming
procedure would be set up to see whether any of the rest of
the area could ever be leased. In other words, the standard
operating procedure of delay and litigation to block
development.
   Congress is not the only culprit. In June, President Bush
happily announced he was in favor of making 99% of the
California coast "off-limits to oil and gas leasing and
development until after the year 2000." One extremely
promising area off California that had already been leased is
now caught up in a Byzantine permit battle that has let a
local government block development.
   Point Arguello is the largest domestic discovery since
Prudhoe Bay, but the members of the Santa Barbara County
Board of Supervisors have so far stymied development. Chevron
has spent $2 billion on the project, which has been ready to
go for two years. The field could produce some 100,000
barrels a day, which would be a fine start toward replacing
all of Saddam's oil. The project is frozen pending a
"supplemental environmental impact statement" due in
November. The Energy Department has offered to mediate the
dispute over whether the oil would be moved to refineries
down the coast by pipeline or by tanker.
   It's worth noting that nuclear power has helped some
countries, notably Japan and France, greatly reduce their
reliance on Middle East oil. In the U.S., Shoreham and
Seabrook are hollow testaments to the ability of special
interests to destroy an industry. It's also worth noting that
almost all the oil that could be developed in this country
would be delivered by pipeline, not by tanker a la the Exxon
Valdez. While we're at it, we note that the much-discussed
caribou herd at Prudhoe Bay has grown to 15,000 from 3,000 in
1970.
   Saddam Hussein may have done this country a big favor by
reminding everyone that banning drilling in "wildlife" areas
and offshore always includes tradeoffs. The cost of
environmentalism is never easy to quantify, but neither is
the risk of the oil weapon in the hands of a dictator.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Aid and Investment
   In Asia Outstrip America's
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   As Japan steps up its interest in Southeast Asia, the U.S.
economic presence in the region is in eclipse.
   U.S. government aid has been reduced to several Southeast
Asian countries over the past few years. Aid to the
Philippines continues high, but that to Indonesia has
steadily dropped, and U.S. aid for Thailand fell almost 50%
last year (to $10 million). Malaysia gets no aid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Officials at the Agency for International Development say
the shrinking numbers are due to broader U.S. budget
cutbacks, the region's booming economies, and needs in newly
free Eastern Europe.
   The squeeze comes while Japanese aid is flooding Southeast
Asia. In 1988, Japan sent $984 million to Indonesia, $360
million to Thailand and $534 million to the Philippines. That
represented more than 20 times U.S. aid to Indonesia, 15
times U.S. aid to Thailand, and almost double the U.S. aid to
the Philippines. Japan says it is the largest aid donor in 17
Asian nations.
   In private investment, a similar Japan-U.S. gap shows up.
U.S. firms invested about $3.9 billion in Southeast Asia last
year, roughly half what Japanese concerns are expected to
spend there this year, the Conference Board estimates. The
business research group says that in the first half of 1990,
U.S. companies launched 110 foreign manufacturing ventures,
but only five were in Southeast Asia.
   "U.S. companies have a very strong European orientation
and very limited orientation to Southeast Asia," says Gail
Fosler, the Board's chief economist. Yet she expects Asia's
economic growth to far outstrip Europe's in coming years.
   To be sure, several U.S. companies are already established
in Southeast Asia through subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Among them are Du Pont Co., Coca-Cola, Dow Chemical, Goodyear
and Hewlett-Packard. Still, Japan's greater rate of
investment in Asia is likely to give it a larger share of
some of the fastest-growing markets in the world, as well as
greater access to inexpensive labor.
   (See related story: "Guiding Hand: In Asia, the Japanese
Hope to `Coordinate' What Nations Produce --- They Use
Investment and Aid To Determine Who Makes TVs and Who Makes
Toys --- Nicer Co-Prosperity Sphere?" -- WSJ August 20, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Going to War in the Kingdom of Oil
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FREST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Karen Elliott House will find few to disagree with her
suggestion of "No Appeasement of Iraq" (editorial page, Aug.
7). However, it is difficult to see how her reasoning or
prescriptions would contribute to peace and stability.
   In justifying unilateral military action, she suggests the
U.S. has "simply to pursue its own interest -- the free flow
of oil at acceptable prices." Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait
largely to ensure his definition of appropriate price and
supply levels for oil, as he defines them. How can we
distinguish U.S. military action in service of our definition
of appropriate price and supply levels from Saddam Hussein's?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Surely, the more important reason for resisting Saddam's
aggression is that it threatens the region with instability,
and creates yet another dangerous precedent of a violation of
sovereignty. It therefore makes sense to resist it in a
manner that preserves, and if possible promotes, the values
sought to be vindicated. A unilateral U.S. military response
would galvanize Arab nationalist sentiment into a relatively
neutral posture, an unstable prospect. A multilateral
response, which Ms. House scoffs at, would allow for the
development of a regional consensus around the shared
interest in resisting Iraqi domination. It also would enjoy
legitimacy as a reflection of the world community's interest
in world order, rather than being perceived as one
superpower's unilateral pursuit of its economic interests.
   Amit A. Pandya
   Washington
   ---
   For a number of years, I've enjoyed Ms. House's insightful
articles on the Middle East. This one continues her
excellence. The phrase "superpower amity has little effect on
regional enmity" should be copyrighted.
   Her article, coupled with the one of Messrs. Jeffrey
Birnbaum and Andrew Pasztor in the same issue, should be read
at the National Security Council and other agencies. It is
hoped that there will be collaboration with the U.S.S.R. What
an opportunity if Soviet naval units could enforce the
blockade at Iskenderun.
   David W. Peck Jr.
   New York
   ---
   Ms. House was breathtaking in her ability to get to the
heart of our country's Middle Eastern quandary. Years of
waffling and positioning have left the U.S. in a serious bind
with little room to maneuver.
   Might I suggest you consider reprinting several thousand
copies of Ms. House's article and delivering them to our
policy makers in Foggy Bottom, Capitol Hill and the White
House?
   Paul M. Ganz
   Redford Township, Mich.
   ---
   Ms. House's comments raise more questions than they
answer. Where does "military intervention" stop short of
total occupation of the Arab world? You can't just punch the
bully once and stop the fight.
   If the U.S. intervenes, is Ms. House volunteering as an
infantry rifleperson, or are we to send "them" to fight and
be killed? How does the cost in U.S. lives and dollars
compare with the increased cost of oil? If we had not let the
Luddites in our midst scare us away from clean nuclear power
we wouldn't be so vulnerable now.
   Stuart L. Faber
   Cincinnati
   ---
   When Israel bombed Iraq's nuclear facilities in 1981,
seriously forestalling Hussein's quest for nuclear
capability, the act was condemned around the world, and
Israel's warning that Hussein would use every means possible
to threaten other nations was rejected.
   Now, it's clear Israel's foreboding was right on the
money. Imagine a Hussein with a nuclear arsenal. It's a scary
thought. But we don't have to face that scenario, for now at
least, thanks to Israel.
   David Feifel
   Toronto, Ontario
   ---
   It's hard to believe Ms. House argues for using the U.S.
military to enforce an "acceptable" price for oil. Troops
should be used to protect freedom, not to extract price
concessions from trading partners.
   Far better to develop an alternate supply. There is reason
to believe research into high-technology areas such as laser
fusion or even biotechnology could yield a significant
discovery within three years.
   Carl Whitney
   President
   Saturn Research
   Petaluma, Calif.
   ---
   Wow] To use a British expression, Ms. House is wonderfully
"bloodyminded," with phrases such as "dictator took control .
. . of the West's economic destiny in the 1990s." Really?
Then she comments about Hussein's "ability to dictate world
oil prices." How? Then she says our efforts are "too little,
too late." All in three paragraphs.
   Then Ms. House also decries our healthy aversion to
bloodshed, ignoring the fact that healthy aversion also
exists among the young people of Iraq, especially those who
fought in the war with Iran (one of three being a woman
toward the end). She ignores economic history, too -- that at
one time Saudi Arabia was producing 12 million barrels a day,
and so was the Soviet Union, and that since that time,
Western consumption has dropped dramatically, and other
sources of crude have risen dramatically. Saudi Arabia still
can produce 12 million barrels a day, and the Soviet Union
can make almost half that amount available for hard currency.
   This administration's careful building of political and
economic blocks to put a real wall around Iraq, backed by a
real military wall, has been strategically adept. But we
cannot stimulate Hussein's imagination to understand in
advance the result of a B-52 bombing raid on Iraq's principal
cities, nor can we pre-demonstrate the devastating effect of
our jet fighters on his old Soviet tanks, which are required
to stop in order to fire, and whose diesel tanks sit exposed
behind the turret. Unfortunately, he and, sadly, some of his
people, may have to find this out the hard way. But many
people will resent Ms. House's rush to this gory undertaking,
and will admire President Bush and his colleagues for their
restrained patience.
   Peter Whiteford
   Houston
   ---
   Iraq's brutal occupation of Kuwait dramatically and
ominously points up another unwanted legacy of the Reagan
administration, which dismantled or disregarded many of the
energy-conservation programs intended to reduce the need for
petroleum after the oil crises in 1973-74 and 1979.
   His administration cut billions of dollars from the
planned spending on crude oil for the strategic petroleum
reserve; it eased the government's fuel-efficiency
requirements for new cars; it cut back a variety of programs
intended to encourage conservation and development of
alternative energy sources such as solar power; it failed to
take the necessary leadership in 1986 urging the adoption of
a fuel tax.
   Alvin F. Friedman
   Morton Grove, Ill.
   ---
   My initial reaction is to say, "Thank you Saddam Hussein."
This brutal megalomaniac may have done the U.S. a big favor
in the following areas:
   1. Reminding Congress that we cannot take all of the
budget cuts from defense.
   2. Reminding Congress that we need our defense reductions
made with world strategy in mind and not the pork barrel.
   3. Reminding us that we still need to project forces on a
world-wide basis.
   Amaury Piedra
   Bellvue, Wash.
   ---
   The Bush administration's outrage at Iraq's invasion of
Kuwait loses its moral force when it is remembered that just
a few months ago President Bush ordered the invasion of
Panama, and a few years ago the Reagan-Bush administration
ordered the invasion of Grenada. Iraq has used the Panama
rationale of replacing a corrupt leader.
   International lawfulness cannot be advanced when
superpowers set a tone of acting as they please. The
superpowers must show the way by practicing a respect for
international law and for the sovereignty of nations and by
working to strengthen international organizations like the
United Nations and the World Court.
   Richard Barsanti
   Western Springs, Ill.
   ---
   Ms. House says it without obfuscation: We will conduct war
for the "free flow of oil at tolerable prices." Before we
send our young men to kill and die there, full disclosure is
in order so that mothers and fathers who get visits from a
major will know why their sons died. That was not a luxury
given the parents of the 58,000 dead in Vietnam.
   The analogy of Kuwait and Munich limps badly. Saudi
Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait, the Arab Emirates and Oman were the
creations of England and France for their own economic and
strategic reasons in the early part of this century. They
established as these countries' leaders sheik families who
rule with little or no respect for democracy or human rights.
They are in power through the corruption of vast wealth
shared by few Arabs in that part of the world. American
policy makers know this but continue to use the sheiks for
their own strategic purposes.
   The average Arab knows the U.S. is the enemy of his land,
his resources and his religion. The West uses this part of
the world for its own purposes, starting with the forcing of
its foreign surrogate, Israel, onto Arab soil.
   All the talk about Iraq establishing a "puppet" government
in Kuwait may not be true. There are more than 100,000
Palestinians there who were treated as serfs with no rights.
And many Kuwaitis may be pleased at the expulsion of a vain
and corrupt family of sheiks.
   Here is a suggested headstone for the U.S. servicemen who
may die in Arab countries:
   Here lies PFC Harvey Anybody
   Killed in action on the U.S. Enterprise in the Persian
Gulf
   He died courageously for his country's
   Free flow of oil at reasonable prices
   Requiescat in Pace
   Peter J. Riga
   Houston
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Guiding Hand:
   In Asia, the Japanese
   Hope to `Coordinate'
   What Nations Produce
   ---
   They Use Investment and Aid
   To Determine Who Makes
   TVs and Who Makes Toys
   ---
   Nicer Co-Prosperity Sphere?
   ----
   By Bernard Wysocki Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- On the 14th floor of a government office building
here, young Japanese bureaucrats are quietly drawing up
blueprints for the economic future of Asia.
   This is the headquarters of Japan's Ministry of
International Trade and Industry, or MITI, which helped guide
the postwar Japanese economic miracle. But in this particular
office, MITI is focusing on Japan's less-developed neighbors
to the south, especially Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and
the Philippines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Noboru Seki, the section chief, shows a visitor a stack of
recent studies -- MITI's economic plans for Malaysia. They
include blueprints for new industries ranging from rubber
sneakers to color-television picture tubes. The most
elaborate document, written in concert with Malaysian
planners, is 70 pages long and outlines, in astonishing
detail, MITI's plans to make Malaysia one of the world's
foremost producers of word processors, answering machines and
facsimile devices.
   "We deeply hope," says Mr. Seki with a smile, "that these
will be the most important industries in Malaysia."
   Always eager to study and coordinate, Japan's bureaucrats
are working overtime these days on the economic
transformation of the Asia-Pacific region -- with the
well-being of Japanese business and industry firmly in mind.
Some of these grand plans exist only on paper. Yet, Japanese
government aid is flooding into the region. So is Japanese
private investment, in the form of factories and joint
ventures. The Ministry of Finance estimates Japanese direct
investment in Asia will hit about $8 billion this year,
quadruple the level of 1986.
   More important than the amount of money is the methodical
and sophisticated manner in which it is being spent. Far from
using a case-by-case approach to foreign aid and investment,
Japanese government and corporate strategists speak about
shaping and even "coordinating" the economic development of
the region. Implicit in this view is a division of labor. For
example, as MITI sees it, Indonesia will pay special
attention to textiles, forest products and plastics. Thailand
will focus on furniture, toys and die-cast molds. And
Malaysia will concentrate on sneakers, copiers and television
picture tubes.
   "Laissez faire can't be recommended," says Nobuhito Hobo,
a mid-level official in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
"Careful utilization of market forces is always ideal."
   Metaphors for Japan's new role in Asia are multiplying.
Some people speak of Asia as a "flock of geese." Others,
including consultants to Japan's Economic Planning Agency,
talk of an "Asian brain," the center of which is in Tokyo.
   Whatever the imagery, the basic idea is pretty much the
same. Says Masayoshi Furuya, director of Japan Research
Institute, a Tokyo think tank: "We have to develop the Asian
countries."
   The development strategy works like this: First, Japanese
loans, mostly of government money, build up roads, bridges
and such. Second, the Japanese government sends technical
experts. Third, Japanese loans filter down to industry within
the Asian country, to finance joint ventures and other
business alliances. Fourth, Japan opens its doors to imports
from these offshore factories.
   Experts see in this the emergence of a regional Asian
economy. And some worry that these strategies may be the
foundation stones for a future protectionist trading bloc.
   The surge of Japanese investment has met with mixed
reactions in Asia. On the one hand, the Asian nations, hungry
for jobs, can prosper mightily from an infusion of Japanese
technology and money. "We have 200,000 young people leaving
school each year," says Sapuan Amir, a director of the
Malaysian Industrial Development Authority. "We need to
create 200,000 jobs a year just to stay even, and we already
have an unemployment rate of 7.9%."
   On the other hand, Japan's emergence as a regional
powerhouse conjures up painful memories for many Asians,
particularly the older ones who remember Japan's wartime
pronouncements on a "Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere."
As early as the 1930s, military strategists in Tokyo had
talked of gaining control of Southeast Asia's vast natural
resources. Back then, Japan envisioned the entire Pacific
region woven into a cohesive economy, with Southeast Asia
serving as the source of raw materials and a vast consumer
market.
   The Co-Prosperity Sphere formally became part of Japan's
war plans, and Japan would soon invade Vietnam, Indonesia,
Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore and the Philippines. Decades
later, resentment and suspicion of Japan remain close to the
surface in many Asian nations -- including those hungry for
investment. In the early 1980s, when Japan revised its
textbooks to minimize its coercive wartime rule, other Asians
protested vehemently. "The period of Japanese presence in
East and Southeast Asia was indisputably one of extreme
suffering for people in the region," wrote one Malaysian to
the Far East Economic Review, a weekly magazine. "The attempt
. . . to whitewash this history further adds to the
injustice."
   Lingering fears about overdependence on Japan have
prompted many current Asian leaders to seek American and
European investment as a counterweight.
   Still, Japanese businesses are finding plenty of
opportunities to expand into Asia. Nikken Sekkei, Japan's
largest architectural-design firm, for example, recently won
a fierce competition to design a major office tower in Seoul,
South Korea. More Korean business is flowing in and the
company has opened an office in Singapore to tap markets
there, says Kimiaki Minai, the company's president.
   Mr. Minai downplays fears that Japan is out to dominate
the rest of the region. "First of all, we are Asians," he
says.
   First among the Asians is probably closer to the mark. As
a society that is rank conscious and hierarchical, Japan
finds it easy to think of Asia as an economic hierarchy of
nations. And Japan is, naturally, No. 1.
   Or to use the flock-of-geese image, Japan is the lead
goose, followed in close formation by newly industrialized
nations like Taiwan and South Korea, and then developing
countries such as Thailand and Malaysia. Behind them is giant
China. The fifth rank is an embryonic membership in the
flock: India, Vietnam and Bangladesh.
   At least some Japanese bureaucrats are eager to limit
competition between these countries, and private industry is
already making an effort to foster complementary patterns of
development. A regional auto industry, for example, might
combine transmissions made in the Philippines with steering
mechanisms built in Malaysia and engines from Thailand. Each
country would then do final assembly. Toyota Motor Corp. is
already moving rapidly in this direction.
   The new Asia strategy has another notable feature: It
helps Japan trim its trade surplus with the U.S. Moving
production offshore means shifting elements of that $49
billion annual trade surplus out of Japan, even if many of
the factories remain Japanese-controlled. So Tokyo wins
points with U.S. politicians worried about the trade deficit.
   But this is what John Stern, of the American Electronics
Association in Tokyo, calls an "export shell game." He notes
that last year Japan's exports of consumer electronics to the
U.S. dropped 21% to $4.2 billion. Thailand's exports to the
U.S. rocketed 2000% to $162 million -- largely because of
production there by Japanese and joint-venture producers.
   Some of this Japanese investment goes back a long way, but
the big wave began building in 1987, when then-Prime Minister
Yasuhiro Nakasone announced a $20 billion foreign aid program
and earmarked $2 billion for the development of private
industry in Asia. About the same time, the Ministry of
International Trade and Industry initiated a New Asian
Industries Development Plan (New AID), which amounted to a
blueprint for Japanese industry to set up offshore
production.
   Japanese officials are touchy about appearing too well
coordinated in their thinking. They stress that MITI's plan
isn't official Japanese policy.
   "This is the Japanese first line of defense: They say the
New AID plan is MITI's policy, it isn't Japan's policy," says
David Arase, a professor at Pomona College in California.
"But there is a large degree of cross-fertilization. There is
a lot of de facto coordination."
   Japanese officials concede, for example, that the
infrastructure planning for Thailand is done with the
knowledge that Japanese industry is lining up to invest
there, and that Thailand's current infrastructure is bursting
at the seams. More roads and ports will be needed to handle
the new business.
   The MITI plan was designed to be a timely helping hand for
Japanese industry, which was buffeted by a sharply rising yen
between 1985 and 1988, and by soaring land prices and a
worsening labor shortage. This last problem has forced
Japanese companies to import immigrant labor -- a
controversial step in xenophobic Japan -- or take the work to
cheaper labor markets overseas.
   Hitachi, Matsushita, Toyota and others have thus begun
increasing production in Southeast Asia, and their smaller
suppliers have followed them overseas. Today, small- and
medium-sized companies in many industries are rushing into
Southeast Asia in a stampede of investment. Last March, a
Japanese survey of 9,000 smaller companies showed that 2,500
of them were planning to invest overseas, and almost 60% of
these were planning to invest in Southeast Asia. Thailand is
the most popular destination, followed by Indonesia and
Malaysia.
   At the Indonesian Embassy on the outskirts of central
Tokyo, Soeprapto Herijando waits with outstretched arms. He
recently set up a special reception room to handle the flow
of inquiring Japanese businessmen. "In two months, more than
100 visitors," says Mr. Herijando, proudly showing a visitor
a large room with an elaborately carved Indonesian sofa and
wing chairs. "The telephone calls," he adds, "number in the
thousands."
   But Indonesia more than most has also discovered that
Japanese investment -- as any foreign investment -- can be a
mixed blessing. Consider the country's Asahan project, a $2.7
billion complex that includes dams, power transmission and a
giant aluminum smelter. Asahan has created 2,000 jobs,
electricity for a town, and aluminum to export to Japan and
elsewhere. For Japan, Asahan (41%-owned by the Indonesian
government, 59% by Japanese interests) is a monument to
Japan-Indonesian cooperation.
   Yet the project has been, at times, a financial nightmare.
The plant's exports are largely denominated in dollars, but
its loans are mostly in Japanese yen. When the yen rose
sharply between 1985 and 1988, Indonesia was caught in a
squeeze, unable to generate enough export revenue to repay
its costly yen-based loans. Japan had to cough up several new
loans, totaling more than $1 billion in 1987 alone.
   Then in 1988 the Indonesian side of the joint venture
angrily shut off aluminum shipments to Japan for five months
because it wanted more of the smelter's output. Other
disagreements followed.
   "When I visited Asahan, I got big complaints from the
Japanese working there," says Tsuneo Fujita, a high-ranking
official of the Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund,
an investor in the project. "They kept losing {workers},
after making strenuous efforts to train them."
   The recipient countries have their own complaints.
Japanese reluctance to install local managers is a frequent
source of conflict. "U.S. companies have readily appointed
locals in top positions in Malaysia; Japan hasn't," says M.
Suppiah, a Malaysian in charge of attracting American
companies to his country. Moreover, Japan is often criticized
for being stingy about transfering technology to fledgling
Southeast Asian industries.
   Some Japanese executives admit they fear wholesale
technology transfer for simple competitive reasons. Toshio
Oda, managing director of Nissho Iwai, the giant Japanese
trading house, which has 70 joint ventures in Asia, says his
company has to be careful. "Otherwise," he says, "it's just a
giveaway of technology. The difficulty is when we can't
control the management," he says. "Investment means having
some control when we invest."
   In all likelihood, these problems will work themselves out
over time, given the incentives. Japan is keen to gain from
closer economic cooperation, and so, too, are the nations of
Southeast Asia. And therein lies a remarkable historical
twist: What Japan was unable to do with military force 50
years ago, it is achieving today through its money, diplomacy
and technical skill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   For Many Asians, Japanese Evoke
   Both Bitter Memories and Admiration
   ----
   By Stephen Duthie
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FREST MC
</CO>
<LP>
   KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -- P. Arunasalam's grandmother had
some advice for him when he began working for Furukawa
Electric Co.'s Malaysian subsidiary in 1972. "You have to be
very careful about the Japanese," she warned.
   She was speaking from experience, albeit dated. Her
husband was among the thousands of ethnic Tamils, mostly
rubber plantation workers, who were rounded up by Japanese
occupation forces during World War II and forced to work on
the Siam-Burma railway, better known as the Death Railway.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Her husband, like tens of thousands of other Malaysians
and prisoners of war, would die building the railway. Mr.
Arunasalam says those who survived told his grandmother that
her husband, a devout Hindu, refused to eat the rotten beef
offered by his Japanese army overseers. "So they beat and
bayonetted him, and left him dying for three days" along the
banks of the River Kwai, he recounts.
   This sort of tale is common in Southeast Asia, where
Japan's military and economic expansion 50 years ago left an
indelible mark. Memories of the war are keen here. But
conversations with Malaysian workers also suggest that
Southeast Asians have largely come to terms with history --
and the growing number of Japanese employers in their region.
Mr. Arunasalam, for one, spent 17 years at Furukawa and was
thankful for his job.
   Clearly there is still suspicion and resentment of Japan.
Recently, the Malaysian foreign minister expressed his
concern that Japan may fill the void left behind by cuts in
U.S. and Soviet military operations in the region. His
comments created a diplomatic stir.
   Yet there is also admiration for the Japanese,
particularly among younger Malaysians who see in Japan an
economic machine that has invested billions in Southeast Asia
and helped transform subsistence agrarian economies into
bustling industrial enclaves. With that investment have come
jobs, a rising living standard and an inclination to look to
Japan as an economic role model.
   "My parents suffered during the Japanese time," says
Manickan Thagarajan, who makes semiconductors at NEC Corp.'s
plant near here, "but these days they never much worry about
the old time."
   In the early 1980s, Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir
Mohamad even initiated a "Look East" policy, and decided that
the Malaysian economy could gain from studying at Japan's
knee. Mr. Mahathir, who lived through the Japanese occupation
and was forced to hawk bananas to help support his family,
found many of his countrymen baffled when he announced his
program. His critics worried it would benefit Japanese far
more than Malaysians.
   But the Look East policy caught hold. Initially aimed at
inculcating Japan's work ethic in Malaysia, it soon led to a
national desire for things Japanese, and to a major expansion
of Japanese investment here.
   In recent years, Japan has been the biggest foreign source
of manufacturing investment in Malaysia. In 1989 alone,
Japanese companies invested about $1 billion in the country,
according to the Malaysian Industrial Development Authority.
   Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. was one of the first to
come, arriving in the mid-1960s. Today it has 11 Malaysian
plants employing 11,000 workers.
   Those workers often complain about management's insistence
on high production targets and demands for overtime work. But
their jobs are more secure than most, and they include plenty
of interaction between the executive suite and the shop
floor.
   "Employees can suggest anything from A to Z," says Abdul
Manab Mohamed Kassim, president of the Electrical Industry
Workers' Union and a longtime employee of Matsushita
Electric. The company, he says, has set up suggestion
committees and quality circles and pays attention to minor
personnel matters, such as announcing employee birthdays, in
a way that bolsters worker morale. "These days," Mr. Manab
adds, "if managers are disliked by employees, they often are
sent back" to Japan.
   Malaysian workers, however, echo the complaints of
governments throughout the region that Japanese companies,
more than others, restrict the transfer of technology to
subsidiaries in Southeast Asia and lag behind in building
research and development facilities in the region.
   "I worked for a cable company for 17 years," says Mr.
Arunasalam, who made electric and telephone cables for
Furukawa before leaving to take a union post. "But I can't
tell you how a cable is made from start to finish."
   When he went to Japan in 1980 to visit Furukawa's Tokyo
headquarters he was barred from entering one of its plants,
he says. "The plant was working on optic fibers. And I was
told that it was top secret, even for someone like me, who
had been with the company for so many years."
   (See related story: "Guiding Hand: In Asia, the Japanese
Hope to `Coordinate' What Nations Produce --- They Use
Investment and Aid To Determine Who Makes TVs and Who Makes
Toys --- Nicer Co-Prosperity Sphere?" -- WSJ August 20, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   William Kaye Quits PaineWebber Post
   In Wake of Move to Cut His Authority
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PWJ
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- William Kaye resigned as head of takeover
stock trading at PaineWebber Group Inc.'s PaineWebber Inc.
unit after the firm moved to reduce his authority and change
his compensation. Those moves came after his group suffered
losses on the failed takeover of United Airlines parent UAL
Corp.
   Mr. Kaye, 37 years old, became one of Wall Street's best
known arbitragers, or takeover stock traders, during six
years in charge of the PaineWebber arbitrage department.
During the mid-1980s heyday of corporate takeovers, he
invested as much as $500 million, earning hefty profits both
for the firm and himself. According to Financial World
magazine, he made $12 million in 1989 alone.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although Mr. Kaye and PaineWebber disputed the accuracy of
that exact figure, there seems little doubt that Mr. Kaye
made far more than PaineWebber's own chairman and chief
executive officer, Donald Marron, who made $2.1 million in
the same year.
   Mr. Kaye's compensation was the result of an unusual
payout structure giving his small group of seven
professionals and a few clerks between 20% and 25% of the
profits they generated. His 1989 pay reflected huge profits
on such 1988 takeovers as the acquisition of Sterling Drug
Inc. by Eastman Kodak Co. In other departments at
PaineWebber, employees receive a salary plus bonus, with the
bonus limited by profits for the firm as a whole.
   But the arbitrage department's success came to a crashing
halt in October of 1989, when the collapse of the UAL
takeover inflicted heavy losses on takeover speculators
throughout Wall Street as UAL shares tumbled 59% in price. A
dearth of big takeovers this year has continued to limit
arbitrage profits.
   Although PaineWebber still managed to make money in
arbitrage for all of 1989, the firm has said arbitrage losses
hurt results in the fourth quarter of 1989 and first quarter
of 1990. People on Wall Street said those reports frustrated
Mr. Kaye because the firm had never credited arbitrage
profits for helping results in earlier periods.
   Two weeks ago, PaineWebber shifted the arbitrage
department, which had reported to the firm's general counsel,
into the capital markets group, headed by Charles Milligan
and Margo Alexander. The change reduced Mr. Kaye's authority
to make arbitrage investment decisions.
   Mr. Milligan immediately sought to change the arbitrage
group's compensation from a share-of-profits structure to the
salary-plus-bonus structure that governs all other
departments. One person at PaineWebber said the structure and
past size of the arbitrage group's compensation had sparked
resentment elsewhere in the firm. Within the arbitrage group,
the same person said, some members were also unhappy that Mr.
Kaye was entitled to such a large share of the pay.
   Mr. Kaye wasn't available for comment.
   People at PaineWebber said the firm's executives wanted to
exercise greater control over the risks the firm is taking in
a period when caution prevails throughout the securities
industry. This year, the size of the firm's arbitrage
positions has been slashed by roughly four-fifths from their
1988 peak.
   The same people said Mr. Kaye didn't want to be hemmed in
by new restrictions on his decisions. Nor, they said, did he
relish the prospect of his pay being subject to limits
imposed by the profitability of the rest of the firm.
   Mr. Kaye isn't the first arbitrager to feel the
after-effects of the collapse of UAL and the subsequent
dearth of big deals. Earlier this year, the heads of
arbitrage at Travelers Corp.'s Dillon, Read &amp; Co. unit and
Spear Leeds &amp; Kellogg Securities Inc. left their firms, and
Blackstone Group got out of arbitrage entirely.
   A graduate of Vanderbilt University and University of
Chicago Business School, Mr. Kaye came to PaineWebber in 1978
after a short stint in the mergers department at Goldman
Sachs &amp; Co. For now, the department is being led by his two
top aides, Richard Schneider, 34, and Mike Donatelli, 32,
although they haven't been given new titles yet. Neither
would comment.
   In an interview, Mr. Milligan said he believes
opportunities will soon increase for arbitrage profits,
particularly as more participants retreat. With the dollar
weakening and more U.S. companies likely to be acquired by
European concerns, he said, "We think there's going to be
tremendous activity going forward."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S., Iraq Edge
   Toward Armed
   Conflict in Gulf
   ---
   Baghdad Demands Pullout
   As Navy Ships Fire Shots
   Across Bows of Tankers
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger and Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST MD EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The U.S. and Iraq edged closer to armed confrontation, as
U.S. naval vessels shadowed two Iraqi tankers believed to be
carrying outbound cargoes of oil, and Iraq vowed to hold
Western hostages until President Bush withdraws troops from
Saudi Arabia and ends economic sanctions.
   Over the weekend, the U.S. Navy fired warning shots across
the bows of the two tankers in the Persian Gulf and Gulf of
Oman. Neither tanker was stopped. But the incident --
involving the first shots fired by the U.S. in the Gulf
crisis -- underscored the growing volatility in the conflict
between the U.S. and Iraq.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Pentagon wouldn't say where the ships were headed, but
an administration official said he believed one tanker was
headed to Yemen. If the vessels continue their course, the
shipments would pose the toughest test of the effort to block
outbound cargoes from Iraq.
   President Bush interrupted his vacation in Kennebunkport,
Maine, yesterday and headed back to Washington to discuss the
Gulf crisis with senior aides at the White House. One item
expected to be on the agenda, according to officials, was how
many military reservists to call up to supplement the Bush
administration's massive buildup in the region. The president
hasn't yet signed an order calling up reserves.
   The U.S. determination to prevent the tankers from
unloading their cargo, thereby breaking the embargo, could
lead the U.S. to the brink of war. "I think we're about 70%
on our way to war" within the next several weeks, warned Paul
Jureidini, vice president of Abbott Associates, a
Washington-based Mideast consulting firm. Others say that the
odds may be slimmer, but the possibility of forcibly stopping
the tankers has increased the likelihood of a confrontation.
   Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, who is visiting U.S. troops
and ships in the Gulf region, said that "our vessels continue
to maintain their surveillance" of the Iraqi ships. And he
emphasized that U.S. forces are authorized to stop cargo to
or from Iraq "by voluntary means and naval means if
necessary."
   At the same time that the U.S. is building up its military
presence, there are renewed efforts to try to resolve the
crisis without a military confrontation, according to people
in the Middle East close to the situation. One Mideast expert
with close connections in the region said that Jordan's King
Hussein is continuing talks with Iraqi President Saddam
Hussein to find ways to entice Iraq into withdrawing from
Kuwait.
   According to the Mideast expert, these discussions include
proposals that the Gulf countries write off Iraq's debts to
them, which total as much as $70 billion. Other ideas being
discussed include finding a way for Kuwait to "lease" to Iraq
two islands, Warbah and Bubiyan, that would give Baghdad
expanded access to the Persian Gulf, and searching for
formulas to share the oil fields beneath the Kuwait-Iraqi
border.
   Meanwhile, however, Iraq is reacting to the mounting U.S.
naval presence by warning that the 3,000 Americans and other
westerners being forcibly detained would be used as shields
to discourage American bombers from attacking Iraqi military
installations. Baghdad also has said that the foreigners
would suffer from any shortages of food or medicine resulting
from the international embargo of Iraq.
   Despite these repeated threats, U.S. officials generally
continued to shy away from the term "hostage," mindful of how
hostage crises hobbled the Carter and Reagan administrations.
Speaking yesterday on NBC News's "Meet the Press," Robert
Kimmitt, undersecretary of state for political affairs, said
that the word "has certain emotional elements to it, both
here and in the region." He reiterated that the U.S. goal is
"to get these people out and to take whatever steps we think
will contribute to that."
   Mr. Kimmitt added that the U.S. had no evidence that any
Americans had been moved to military or research sites that
could be targets of an American attack.
   For now, Iraq's Hussein is using the detained Americans to
try to manipulate U.S. public opinion. Yesterday Iraq offered
to let all foreigners go if President Bush provides written
guarantees that U.S. forces in Saudi Arabia are withdrawn and
if the embargo imposed on Iraq is lifted. The message,
broadcast on Iraqi television yesterday, was described as an
open letter to the families of those being detained.
   Saddam Hussein also said that Iraq is immediately freeing
all detainees from Austria, Switzerland, Sweden, Finland and
Portugal, the Associated Press reported. People from those
countries account for fewer than 600 of the 21,000 Westerners
trapped in Iraq and Kuwait, the AP said.
   The Iraqi president's tactic of attempting to go over the
heads of U.S. officials is similar to the one he used during
the last two weeks, when he called on Arabs to join Iraq in a
holy war against the West. Saddam Hussein is appealing --
with some success -- to the impoverished and resentful Arab
masses in such states as Jordan and Egypt who despise the
oil-rich Kuwaitis and believe that their leaders are U.S.
lackeys. Now, the Iraqi president is hoping to generate
pressure in the U.S. to test Mr. Bush's staying power.
   White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Saddam
Hussein's offer "doesn't have much relationship at all to our
objectives. It contains no new relevant proposals, no
reference to the U.N. and Arab League calls for them {Iraqis}
to leave Kuwait."
   President Bush got a boost yesterday from two influential
Democrats in Congress, who said the U.S. needs to balance its
humanitarian concern for hostages against other American
interests in the region, such as the free flow of oil in the
gulf and stopping aggression to ensure regional stability.
   "You cannot let one interest predominate over these other
interests," said Rep. Lee Hamilton, (D., Ind.), chairman of
the House Foreign Affairs subcommittee on the Mideast. And
Rep. Les Aspin (D., Wis.), chairman of the House Armed
Services Committee, said that if U.S. citizens are harmed,
"we at least know the address of the person responsible, so
if we need to send a message we know where to send it."
   Defense Secretary Cheney, whose tour of the Middle East is
part of a full-court diplomatic press to isolate Saddam
Hussein from neighboring Arab countries, is offering to
provide military assistance to Bahrain and other Persian Gulf
kingdoms.
   Commanders of U.S. warships in the region -- carrying
wartime loads of air-to-air missiles, extra ammunition and
even specially armed units trained to board suspicious
vessels -- described cat-and-mouse games in the high seas to
interdict cargoes to or from Iraq.
   The heightened level of tension was evident throughout the
U.S. ships deployed here in the tropical haze about 50 miles
off the northwest corner of Saudi Arabia. Military officials
recounted at least 15 incidents in the past few days when
civilian vessels suspected of doing business with Iraq were
quizzed from a distance by radio or were intercepted by a
U.S. warship before heeding orders to change course.
   One indication of the administration's seriousness in
pursuing the sanctions is the fact that Navy ships have been
supplied with laminated plastic cards to give to civilian
crew members if ships are boarded. The cards, among other
things, urge civilians to "remain calm" but "drop to the deck
with your hands out-stretched" if fighting erupts.
   Mr. Cheney is scheduled to consult with officials in Oman,
Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates. The U.S. already bases
fighter planes in some of those small Persian Gulf kingdoms,
and officials said Mr. Cheney wants to discuss more extensive
military cooperation. The secretary told reporters: "They may
have a need for some short-term items" or long-term military
aid. "I would think everything is possible."
   As the situation continues to heat up, Pentagon officials
are finding new ways to move the massive force and integrate
it with the Saudi military. Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams
announced that the U.S. and Saudi Arabia formally signed an
agreement, as expected, spelling out that American forces
will stay there only as long as the Saudis request.
   Friday, the Pentagon announced that it had ordered
commercial airlines to provide as many as 38 planes for
military purposes. This is the first time the Civil Reserve
Air Fleet has been activated since Congress created it in
1952, and the law gives the president and the secretary of
defense authority to order more commercial cargo and
passenger aircraft to help Operation Desert Shield.
   Meanwhile, sources in the aviation industry indicated that
the U.S. may soon supply Saudi Arabia with the most advanced
version of the F-15 fighter jet, built by McDonnell Douglas
Corp., St. Louis. The Los Angeles Times reported Saturday
that Mr. Cheney flew to Saudi Arabia last week to negotiate
an agreement for selling the F-15E Eagle.
   But Mr. Cheney told reporters that the Saudis haven't
specifically requested additional weapons and that the
Pentagon isn't close to locking up a major deal with any Arab
country.
   ---
   Gerald F. Seib contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Foster Grant Corp.:
   Maker of Eyeglasses Files
   For Chapter 11 Protection
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Foster Grant Corp. said it filed for protection from
creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code in
Tucson, Ariz.
   The closely held maker of reading glasses and sunglasses
said it had been hurt by competition from Asia, which has
flooded the U.S. market with cheaper models. Based in
Leominster, Mass., Foster Grant is the second-largest U.S.
manufacturer of sunglasses behind Bausch &amp; Lomb. Last year
Foster Grant sold about $50 million of glasses, 75% of which
were sunglasses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a result of the filing, the company said it would trim
its staff, but it declined to say how large the layoff would
be.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                       U.S. TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $18.4 billion of three- and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                         Thursday
                                                                                                       

   $10.5 billion of 52-week bills.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Lazare Kaplan International Inc. -- one million common
shares, via Wertheim Schroder &amp; Co.
   Marquette Electronics Inc. -- initial 2.14 million Class A
common shares, via Baird (Robert W.) &amp; Co.
   Noble Drilling Corp. -- nine million common shares, via
Salomon Brothers Inc.
   NRM Steelastic Inc. -- initial 3.35 million common shares,
via Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp.
   Office Club Inc. -- 1.3 million common shares, via Salomon
Brothers.
   Pamida Holdings Corp. -- initial four million common
shares, via Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   Preferred Health Care Inc. -- 4.155 million common shares,
via Furman Selz Mager Dietz &amp; Birney Inc.
   Radius Inc. -- initial three million common shares, via
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   Rocky Mountain Helicopters Inc. -- initial 1.5 million
common shares, via Blunt Ellis &amp; Loewi Inc.
   Salomon Phibro Oil Trust -- twelve million units of
beneficial interest, via Salomon Brothers.
   Vicor Corp. -- one million common shares, via Tucker
Anthony Inc.
   Vital Signs Inc. -- 1.5 million common shares, via
Hambrecht &amp; Quist Inc.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                          Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   Clark County, Nev. -- $53.75 million of transportation
improvement limited tax bonds, 1990 Series, via competitive
bid.
                                                                                                       

                         Thursday
                                                                                                       

   Texas -- $550 million of 12-month tax and revenue
anticipation notes, 1990 Series, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Delaware Transportation Authority -- $125 million of
transportation system senior revenue bonds, 1990 Series, via
a Dillon Read &amp; Co. Inc. group.
   District of Columbia -- $175 million of general obligation
bonds, FSA-insured, via a R.W. Corby Inc. group.
   Jacksonville Electric Authority -- $255 million of St.
Johns River Power Park System special obligation bonds, via a
Lehman Brothers group.
   Lubbock Hospital Facilities Corp., Texas -- $95 million of
hospital revenue bonds, Methodist Hopsital issue, via a First
Boston Corp. group.
   New York City Housing Development Corp. -- $104.6 million
of variable rate seven-day demand bonds, related-East 96th
St. Project, 1990 Series A, Mitsubishi Bank Ltd., via a
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. group.
   New York City Transit Authority -- $200 million of revenue
bonds, 1990 Series, Livingston Plaza Project, FSA-insured,
via a Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. group.
   Orange County, Fla. -- $58 million of tourist development
tax revenue bonds, via a PaineWebber Inc. group.
   State of New York Mortgage Agency -- $125 million of home
owner morgtgage revenue bonds, Series RR (non-Alternative
Minimum Tax), Series SS, (AMT), via a Bear, Stearns &amp; Co.
Inc. group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Saudi Arabia's Pledge to Raise Output
   Of Oil Promises to Help Stabilize Prices
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Petroleum prices may level out this week in the wake of a
public pledge by Saudi Arabia to increase oil production.
   Hisham Nazer, the kingdom's oil minister, confirmed over
the weekend that Saudi Arabia intends to expand output as
much as two million barrels a day. At a news conference
Saturday night in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, he said the action
will be taken with or without the approval of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The increase would make up about half of the four million
barrels a day lost to world oil markets from the latest
Middle East crisis.
   Some other oil exporters with spare capacity -- including
Venezuela and the United Arab Emirates -- are expected to
help fill the gap, Mr. Nazer said. Indeed, in interviews over
the weekend, senior Venezuelan government officials confirmed
their country is ready to increase output soon. Venezuela is
believed capable of pumping an extra 500,000 barrels of oil a
day.
   Saudi Arabia's decision had been expected, but oil markets
have remained jittery because neither the Saudis nor the
Venezuelans had publicly declared their plans. Now, barring
adverse new military developments in the crisis, the formal
statements by Saudi Arabia and Venezuela should help
stabilize prices. Last week, the price of the benchmark U.S.
crude toppped $28, a total increase of about $8 since Iraq's
invasion of Kuwait Aug. 2.
   "I wouldn't be surprised to see prices back off a bit
near-term," said Bryan Jacoboski, senior oil analyst at
PaineWebber Inc. He added, "The Saudi decision over the
weekend means that Saddam Hussein has lost the oil war."
   Citing the negative impact on developing countries from a
threatened oil shortage, Mr. Nazer had strongly urged Sadek
Boussena, Algeria's oil minister and OPEC president, to call
an emergency OPEC meeting to take steps to hold down runaway
petroleum prices. He had noted that the developing countries
would be hurt most by higher oil costs and tight oil
supplies.
   "Developing countries are suffering," Mr. Nazer said.
   According to a copy of a letter to Mr. Boussena obtained
by this newspaper, Saudi Arabia believes that high oil
inventories have helped cushion the impact of the embargo
against Iraqi and Kuwaiti crudes on richer, industrial
countries. Developing countries have neither the storage nor
financing to keep comfortable inventories. It is understood
Venezuela shares that Saudi view.
   The letter states that continued tight supplies and
escalating prices "will precipitate deep economic recession
in (developing countries) since their degree of dependence on
oil for their energy requirements is far greater than that of
industrialized countries."
   Also, other Persian Gulf sources who support immediate
action suggested that all OPEC members, if they don't do
something to curb escalating oil prices, could see their
markets shrink, just as in the 1970s. "If OPEC doesn't learn
from its past mistakes, it is doomed," one Arab official
said.
   Despite such pleas, Mr. Boussena has resisted calls for a
special OPEC meeting. He has been quoted as worrying that the
controversial issues at stake -- including the contention
over Kuwait's representation -- could "scuttle" OPEC.
   Iraq's oil minister, Issam Abdul Raheem Al-Chalabi, also
has rejected the idea of an immediate OPEC meeting,
reportedly calling the proposal an excuse for other members
of OPEC to increase production at Iraq's expense.
   Several other countries also oppose a meeting at this
time, although some, such as Iran, are said to be increasing
output anyway to take advantage of higher prices and to
expand their market shares while Iraq and Kuwait are
sidelined. Even including the exiled government of Kuwait,
only four other countries fully support the joint request of
Saudi Arabia and Venezuela for a special meeting to consider
production levels.
   OPEC's late-July agreement, which set a production ceiling
of 22.5 million barrels a day for the 13 member nations, was
intended to push the group's reference price, based on the
average of a basket of seven crudes, to $21 a barrel. At the
news conference Saturday, Mr. Nazer noted that the price of
the basket is well above $25 a barrel and that production has
dropped to 18.5 million barrels a day. "The shortage of four
million barrels a day can increase if the tension continues,"
Mr. Nazer said, adding: "This should be made up for by all
OPEC members together."
   He predicted, however, that the situation would improve if
the U.S. and other industrialized countries free up their
strategic reserves of crude oil. And he confirmed that if
others in OPEC don't endorse production increases by those
with spare capacity, Saudi Arabia plans to go it alone. But
he emphasized that Saudi Arabia couldn't do it all alone.
   Like Venezuela, the United Arab Emirates could supply an
extra 500,000 barrels a day, said Mr. Nazer. Still, that
"would leave us one million barrels less" than the amount
lost to oil markets so far, he said. He urged that all others
in OPEC with spare capacity join in the effort.
   Mr. Nazer didn't give OPEC much more time. He told the
reporters that if the emergency meeting proposed by the
kingdom fails to get off the ground by today or tomorrow, "it
will be left for each member state to decide alone" on
increases. "What we want to do is go through OPEC," he said,
"but if they refuse to meet, they leave us no alternative."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Creditors Press
   For Liquidation
   Of Film Company
   ----
   By Kathleen A. Hughes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MCEGE
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Three creditors, including movie director
Nicolas Roeg, filed a petition against Management Co.
Entertainment Group in federal bankruptcy court here seeking
to force the company into liquidation under Chapter 7 of
federal bankruptcy laws.
   The talent management, movie production and distribution
company has been negotiating with G.E. Capital, a unit of
General Electric Co., to restructure about $72.5 million in
debt. The company has had a large debt load since it acquired
Virgin Vision Ltd., a distribution company, from Virgin Group
Ltd. for $83 million in July of last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Roeg and the other two unsecured creditors claim they
are owed a total of $161,666 for their work on "Cold Heaven,"
one of the company's many unreleased movies. The other two
creditors are the executive producer of the movie, Jack
Schwartzman, and the producer, Allan Scott.
   Raymond Godfrey, president and chief operating officer,
termed the timing of the filing "unfortunate." He said the
company has been in discussions with a number of potential
investors and still hopes to make an announcement early next
week about a plan for the company's restructuring. He
declined to identify the investors.
   If other creditors join in the petition, it seems likely
that the company would be forced to file for protection from
creditors under Chapter 11 of federal bankruptcy laws, giving
it time to come up with a restructuring plan. Mr. Godfrey
said the company is considering that among other
alternatives. However, he said, "It's not what we prefer to
do."
   The company, which recently released the movie "Without
You I'm Nothing," has 20 days to respond to the petition.
After that time, the court may issue an order for relief and
appoint a trustee to liquidate the company. Other creditors
may also join in the filing. The company owes money to a long
list of vendors in the film industry.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
the company reported liabilities of $252 million as of
December 31. That amount included $153 million in notes
payable. The company also listed $20.4 million as due to
producers and $20.9 million in accounts payable. The company
hasn't filed its financial statement for its fiscal year
ended March 31.
   The company, which has fired more than 100 employees over
the last year, fired another 15 employees on Friday, Mr.
Godfrey said. It now has a total of about 150 to 170
employees, including a European operation.
   The stock, which traded as high as $4.1875 last year,
closed Friday at 68.75 cents bid in over-the-counter trading.
   The company's other movies include "Getting It Right" and
"The Chocolate War." The company received a producer fee on
"Look Who's Talking," the box office hit released by
Tri-Star. For the fiscal nine months ended December 31, the
company reported a net loss of $14.8 million on revenue of
$85 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- FJW Industries Inc.:
   Two Ex-Officials of Firm
   Indicted on Fraud Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal grand jury indicted two former officials of
closely held FJW Industries Inc. on charges that they tried
to defraud the government on a contract to supply equipment
for U.S. Army tanks.
   FJW, based in Elgin, Ill, won a total $1.2 million in
contracts to provide the Army with night-vision periscopes
for its M-60 battle tank, the indictment says. According to
the indictment, the company bought used periscopes from an
Israeli company, then sent them to Singapore, where an FJW
subsidiary disassembled the periscopes; the parts were then
shipped to FJW in Illinois, and assembled into periscopes FJW
sought to pass off as new equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The indictment says the defendants -- Barry Warzak, vice
president, operations, and George Bravo, vice president,
finance -- repeatedly provided false documents certifying
that the contract was being properly fulfilled.
   FJW wasn't named in the indictment. Messrs. Warzak and
Bravo couldn't be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Xerox Corp.:
   Firm Will Stop Distribution
   Of Products in South Africa
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   XRX AFRIC RANKY
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Xerox Corp., Stamford, Conn., said it will stop
distribution of its products in South Africa, effective July
1991.
   Xerox currently sells copiers and other office equipment
in the racially divided country through Xeratech Ltd., a
former subsidiary of Rank Xerox Ltd., the England-based joint
venture Xerox owns with the Rank Organisation PLC. Rank Xerox
sold that operation, formerly known as Rank Xerox South
Africa, to a local company three years ago, signing a
distribution agreement that could be ended with a year's
notice from either party.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Xerox spokesman said the decision to stop distribution
in South Africa was made "in the best interests of the entire
Xerox organization." While he declined to put a dollar amount
on sales to Xeratech, he said the decision would have "no
financial effect of any consequence" on Xerox. When Rank
Xerox South Africa was sold in 1987, it contributed less than
one-half of one percent of Xerox revenue, he added.
   He said the move resulted mainly from pressure brought by
many U.S. city governments, which have refused to deal with
companies that have ties with South Africa.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Fall 762.72 Points in Thin Trade;
   London Shares Drop to Lowest Level Since April
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA FREST JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks plunged in thin trading, reflecting investor
disappointment about unfruitful talks between President Bush
and Jordan's King Hussein in finding a peaceful solution to
the Middle East crisis.
   Meanwhile, London stocks slumped to their lowest levels
since late April in agitated trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index of 225 issues was down 762.72 points
at 26786.72.
   At the end of the morning session in Tokyo Monday, the
Nikkei index was up 134.05 points at 26920.77.
   Also discouraged by a plunge on Wall Street overnight,
cash and futures indexes fell widely right after the opening
Friday. Futures indexes continued to slide on short-hedging
the rest of the day, triggering rounds of arbitrage selling
on the spot market, traders said.
   Volume on the first section was estimated at 300 million
shares, down from 305.7 million shares Thursday. Decliners
outnumbered advancers 861 to 115, while 105 issues were
unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section dropped 34.06 points, or 1.65%, to 2033.30.
   The second section index fell 41.42 points, or 1.01%, to
4072.25. Volume in the section was estimated at 13 million
shares, down from 14.7 million shares Thursday.
   The market was disappointed to see that King Hussein
didn't have any message from Iraq's president to Mr. Bush
after all, observers said.
   "We were too overjoyed on Wednesday," said a fund manager
at Nippon Life Insurance, referring to a 1440-point surge on
the Nikkei Index that day following rumors that King Hussein
was carrying a message that suggested Iraq may withdraw from
Kuwait.
   On Thursday and Friday, the market lost nearly all of
Wednesday's advance.
   Institutions bought blue-chip shares such as Nippon Steel,
Sony, Matsushita Electric Industrial, Toshiba and Hitachi on
Wednesday, the fund manager said.
   But these shares fell Thursday and Friday, "making it
difficult for institutions to buy again," he said.
   Both institutions and dealers raised their cash positions
ahead of the weekend, guarding against a possible worsening
of the Middle East situation, traders said.
   Fumihiko Ishii, manager of investment research at Nomura
Securities, said the majority of participants weren't
expecting war to break out in the Persian Gulf.
   "But uncertainty keeps investors off the trading floor,"
he said.
   Yoshio Ogawa, general manager of stock trading at Nikko
Securities, said trading this week will continue to be
nervous with investors alternating from optimism to
pessimism, responding to news from the Middle East.
   Steel shares bounced up late Friday afternoon, helped by
buying from investment trust funds, which placed buy orders
at limit prices, traders said.
   Nippon Steel gained 10 yen to 529 yen ($3.59), while NKK
added 7 yen to 514 yen.
   The rest of the market fell broadly, regardless of sector.
   Plant engineering companies were sold as their projects in
Iraq and Kuwait have been frozen because of economic sanction
by Japan against the two nations.
   Chiyoda Corp. was down 90 yen to 1640 yen. Toyo
Engineering fell 40 yen to 1440 yen.
   Blue chips slumped, with Sony down 200 yen to 7650 yen,
and Toshiba falling 25 yen to 945 yen. Toyota Motor dropped
50 yen to 1950 yen.
   Construction and housing shares were among the big losers.
   Shimizu fell 60 yen to 1620 yen, while Misawa Homes fell
50 yen to 2200 yen.
   In London, market watchers said shares were marked lower
to encourage buyers into the market, but the observers also
noted outright large selling from continental and
international investors who have become shaken over Middle
East developments.
   Additionally, traders were squaring positions ahead of the
weekend to protect themselves against any unexpected
developments from the region.
   Moreover, a soggy start to Wall Street combined to
pressure the London market.
   Only four stocks in the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100
Share Index managed to escape the onslaught, and these were
predictably oil shares. The international sector, undermined
by a surging pound, included some of the day's biggest
losers.
   The FT-SE 100 Share Index slumped 45.2 points to 2176.9.
The Financial Times 30 Share Index shed 46 points to 1678.9.
Turnover was 500.5 million issues, up from 375.4 million
shares Thursday.
   Among oil shares, Shell Transport &amp; Trading added 7 pence
to 492 pence (13 cents to $9.41), Lasmo rose 12 pence to 467
pence, while Ultramar gained 9 pence to 350 pence.
   Meanwhile, RTZ fell 19 pence to 510 pence, BOC was down 18
pence to 474 pence, Glaxo Holdings was 30 pence lower at 728
pence, and SmithKline Beecham shed 18 pence to 534 pence.
   Building shares were also battered after a report Thursday
by the Bank of England suggested that interest rates would
likely remain high for some time. Redland slipped 18 pence to
536 pence, RMC shed 23 pence to 596 pence, Beazer fell 7
pence to 128 pence, and BPB dropped 8 pence to 188 pence.
   Reuters continued its slide. The stock dropped 51 pence to
878 pence after slumping 80 pence Thursday. The stock has
suffered from some downgradings in the U.S. as well as
adverse press comment in the U.K. Three million shares
changed hands.
   Polly Peck slumped 78 pence to 324 pence. The company's
chairman, Asil Nadir, said he is abandoning plans to bid for
the whole of the group.
   In other markets, shares closed lower in Paris, Frankfurt,
Zurich, Brussels, Amsterdam, Milan, Madrid and Stockholm.
South African gold stocks closed higher.
   Also, stocks ended lower in Hong Kong, Sydney, Manila,
Singapore, Taipei, Seoul and Wellington.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                    % This
                                 Aug 16    Aug 15     Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. .........................  307.0     314.4     -  5.5
 Britain ......................  660.4     665.2     -  8.4
 Canada .......................  387.3     387.3     - 10.4
 Japan ........................ 1143.3    1166.9     - 30.9
 France .......................  483.4     480.8     - 14.7
 Germany ......................  279.1     278.0     -  2.2
 Hong Kong .................... 2333.1    2334.8     + 11.3
 Switzerland ..................  198.8     200.4     -  9.9
 Australia ....................  319.1     320.5     -  3.6
 World index ..................  488.1     496.1     - 14.0
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- HAL Inc.:
   Hawaiian Airlines' Parent
   Shows $26.9 Million Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   HA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   HAL Inc., the parent of Hawaiian Airlines, reported that
its second-quarter net loss grew more than fivefold to $26.9
million, or $12.42 a share, because of heavy investments and
soft market conditions.
   In last year's second quarter, the Honolulu-based company
posted a net loss of $4.3 million, or $2.20 a share. The
year-ago loss reflects an $8.4 million gain on the sale of
property and equipment. Revenue slid to $79.6 million from
$84.2 million a year ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   HAL said heavy investments in aircraft improved its
on-time performance, and were expected to "slow our
turnaround." But unexpectedly soft market conditions, coupled
with the suspension of its military charters "made this
quarter especially rough," the company added.
   For the six months, HAL's loss more than tripled to $43
million, or $19.89 a share, from $13 million, or $6.68 a
share, in last year's period. The year-ago loss reflects a
gain on sale of property and equipment of $8.4 million.
Revenue declined to $160.7 million from nearly $168 million a
year ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Colloid Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ACOL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN COLLOID Co. (Arlington Heights, Ill.) -- Arthur
Brown, chief executive officer, president and chairman of
Hecla Mining Co., was named a director of this specialty
mineral and chemical company, expanding the board to 10.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   West Germany Arrests 7
   Over Iraq Poison-Gas Plant
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WEST BERLIN -- Seven people were arrested in connection
with the alleged delivery of a poison-gas plant to Iraq, a
West German prosecutor said.
   Prosecutor Friedrich Hoffmann in Darmstadt said Friday
that among those arrested was a man he identified only as
"al-Kadhi," an Iraqi specialist employed by the West German
foreign intelligence service.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Hoffmann said the arrests, which came after several
years of investigation, took so long because evidence was
needed to prove that the plant allegedly delivered to Iraq
was constructed so that it could produce poison gas.
   He said among those arrested were employees of Pilot Plant
in Dreieich, a Darmstadt suburb south of Frankfurt; workers
in the export section of Preussag AG in Hanover, and from
Walter Engineering Trading in Hamburg. Company officials
couldn't immediately be reached for comment.
   Mr. Hoffmann emphasized that the accusations of illegal
shipments to Iraq were directed at individuals and not at the
companies he named.
   Separately, the news weekly Der Spiegel reported over the
weekend that the East German National People's Army helped
Iraq gear up for chemical warfare -- by directing
construction of a training ground in Iraq where the weapons
could be tested.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Nordstrom Inc.:
   Company to Settle Charges
   Of Violating Labor Laws
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   NOBE LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Nordstrom Inc. said it agreed to settle charges of
violating several federal labor laws in its handling of a
dispute with the United Food &amp; Commercial Workers Union.
   In the tentative agreement with the National Labor
Relations Board, Nordstrom doesn't admit guilt, nor is it
required to pay a fine. But the retailer promised it wouldn't
allow certain alleged practices that resulted in charges the
labor board found to have potential merit. Those include
discrimination against employees taking part in union
activities and promising workers additional benefits if the
unions are decertified.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The violations stemmed from a yearlong dispute with the
United Food &amp; Commercial Workers locals 1001 and 367.
Contract talks with the two locals, whose pacts covering
Seattle-area salespeople expired last year, broke down after
the company proposed making union membership optional.
   A spokesman for the unions declined to comment on the
proposed settlement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Kansas Gas &amp; Electric Co.:
   Alternatives Sought on Bid
   By Suitor Kansas City P&amp;L
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   KGE KLT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kansas Gas &amp; Electric Co., Wichita, Kan., said it
instructed its investment bankers to seek alternatives to the
proposed $27-a-share hostile tender offer from neighboring
utility, Kansas City Power &amp; Light Inc.
   KG&amp;E's board earlier recommended that shareholders reject
Kansas City P&amp;L's $857 million offer on the grounds that it
was inadequate and too conditional. A spokesman for KG&amp;E said
alternatives include the possible sale of the company, but he
declined to disclose what companies, if any, are involved in
talks. Any discussion of that information "might jeopardize
the continuation of discussions," KG&amp;E said. In Kansas City,
Mo., a spokeswoman for Kansas City Power &amp; Light Co., said,
"We look forward to negotiating all aspects of our offer with
Kansas Gas &amp; Electric.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Our fully financed, all-cash tender offer for the company
is a win-win" situation for the Wichita concern's
shareholders, employees and customers, the spokeswoman
asserted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Cambridge BioScience Corp.:
   Firm Recalls 140 5-Minute
   Test Kits for AIDS Virus
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CBCX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cambridge BioScience Corp. said it is recalling 140 kits
of its 5-minute AIDS test because they no longer meet
manufacturer specifications.
   Worcester, Mass.-based Cambridge BioScience, which makes
the HIV-1 latex screening test, said the problem is consigned
only to kits belonging to Lot A6535 and is requesting
customers to discontinue use of them. A company spokesman
said that the company plans to ask these customers to return
the kits so they can be re-examined.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The defective lot, he said, "represents a very small
percentage of the total number of lots made available by the
company," since it began selling them last year. He noted
that the company's quality control department has tested
numerous other lots before and after the bad batch and found
the kits to be functioning properly.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Electric Co.:
   Aerospace Unit to Cut Jobs
   And Consolidate Department
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   GE
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Electric Co.'s aerospace division, in its
continuing effort to adjust to defense spending cuts, said it
will consolidate its Re-Entry Systems Department into one
facility. About 100 jobs will be eliminated.
   The department, which provides systems support for space
programs, will be moved from the facility in Philadelphia to
facilities in Valley Forge, Pa. GE Aerospace said that about
800 employees will relocate. In April, it announced the
elimination of 4,200 jobs as part of a major consolidation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE U.S. AND IRAQ APPEARED to edge closer to armed
confrontation.
   For the first time in the crisis, U.S. warships on
Saturday fired shots, sent as a warning across the bows of
two tankers that refused to stop in the Persian Gulf and Gulf
of Oman. Iraq vowed to hold Western hostages until Bush
withdraws troops from Saudi Arabia and ends economic
sanctions, and said the 3,000 Americans, along with thousands
of other Westerners forcibly detained, would be used as
shields in an attempt to discourage American bombers from
attacking Iraqi military installations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Pentagon told commercial airlines Friday to provide up
to 38 planes for military use, marking the first time the
Civil Reserve Air Fleet has been activated since its creation
in 1952.
   ---
   East Germany's coalition collapsed when the Social
Democrats bolted in a disagreement over the pace of
unification. The party's departure, while not derailing
unification, solidifies its position as an opposition force.
All major East German parties are committed to unification,
with pan-German elections tentatively set for Dec. 2.
                                                                                                       

   An accord was reached Friday between West German Foreign
Minister Genscher and Soviet counterpart Shevardnadze that
will allow the four World War II Allied powers and the two
Germanys to sign an agreement on Sept. 12 regarding
unification issues.
   ---
   South African police said the death toll surpassed 290 in
a weeklong tribal war in areas outside Johannesburg, and
soldiers were sent in to help police in the Tokoza township.
The Xhosas and the Zulus, the nation's two largest black
tribes, have been attacking each other with clubs, machetes
and spears.
   ---
   Philippine rebels bombed offices of the nation's Justice
Department in Manila and distributed leaflets at military
camps, urging soldiers to rise up against President Aquino.
No one was injured in the pre-dawn explosion. The military
went on full alert Friday following rumors that renegade
soldiers would launch a coup attempt.
   ---
   Three teen-agers were convicted Saturday of raping and
assaulting a woman jogger in New York's Central Park in April
1989. The defendants, acquitted of attempted murder, were
jailed without bail. As juveniles, they face up to 10 years
in prison at sentencing on Sept. 11. Three others charged in
the assault are awaiting trial.
   ---
   Armed Serbs patrolled streets in Yugoslavia's republic of
Croatia to stop police from intervening as the Serb minority
voted on autonomy in open defiance of a government ban.
Croatian officials claim the vote is an effort to destabilize
their government and to divert attention from political
problems in Serbia, the largest Yugoslav state.
   ---
   Liberian rebel leader Taylor will fly to Gambia today for
talks with African leaders on ending eight months of civil
war, his insurgent group said. Deployment of a West African
peacekeeping force in Liberia has been delayed because -- in
contrast to rival rebel leader Johnson and President Doe --
Taylor has refused to accept a cease-fire.
   ---
   NASA engineers studied data from Magellan's memory banks,
looking for clues as to why the unmanned space probe
temporarily malfunctioned during its mission around Venus.
The engineers lost contact with Magellan on Thursday night,
and a steady hookup was re-established a day later.
   ---
   A federal appeals court ruled that innocent property
owners must meet stiff standards in challenging drug-law
forfeitures. The court said the government can seize property
on which drug activity occurred unless the owner "did all
that reasonably could be expected to prevent further illicit
use of the premises."
   ---
   Israeli soldiers killed one Jordanian soldier and wounded
another after the Jordanians infiltrated into the occupied
West Bank, Israel's military command said. Army officials,
who didn't link the incident to current tensions with Iraq,
said it was the second infiltration of Jordanian soldiers
this year.
   ---
   A fuel barge and an oil tanker collided in the Delaware
Bay, spilling about 150,000 gallons of gasoline from the
barge, the Coast Guard said. Officials said there were no
injuries and predicted that environmental damage would be
minimal, since the gasoline was expected to evaporate.
   ---
   Died: B.F. Skinner, 86, psychologist who believed human
behavior could be engineered to build a better world, in
Cambridge, Mass., of leukemia . . . Pearl Bailey, 72, singer
and actress known for her throaty drawl and her role in the
black version of the musical "Hello, Dolly]" on Broadway,
Friday, in Philadelphia . . . Gerhard Wagner, 56, chairman of
Oesterreichische Laenderbank, in Vienna, of a heart attack.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Airbus Industrie:
   Consortium Received Orders
   For 51 Aircraft During July
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.ABI G.DAI U.BA F.ASP
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Airbus Industrie said it received firm orders for 51
aircraft in July, bringing total unit sales to date to more
than 1,500.
   The company said the 51 aircraft were ordered by eight
customers, including two new ones.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Airbus is a consortium among Aerospatiale of France;
Messerschmitt-BoelkowBlohm G.m.b.H., a unit of Daimler-Benz
AG of West Germany; British Aerospace PLC; and Construcciones
Aeronauticas S.A. of Spain.
   As reported earlier, Airbus sales in the first half of
1990 dropped to 118 from 252 in the year-earlier half, caused
in part by a four-month strike at British Aerospace, which
makes wings for the planes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- FundAmerica Inc.:
   Discount Buying Club Files
   For Chapter 11 Protection
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   FundAmerica Inc., a discount buying club under
investigation by Florida authorities, filed for protection
from creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy
laws.
   The company, which sells $100 annual memberships entitling
members to rebates on vacations, credit-card purchases,
long-distance telephone calls and purchases of consumer
goods, listed assets of $17,457,000 and liabilities of
$14,446,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   FundAmerica Inc. is owned by Fund America Holdings Ltd., a
closely held British Columbia corporation.
   Irvine, Calif.-based FundAmerica Inc. filed for
bankruptcy-law protection in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Santa
Ana, Calif. Florida authorities had filed a cease-and-desist
order against the company, charging that it is an elaborate
pyramid scheme. FundAmerica's founder had resigned in the
wake of his arrest last month on charges of organized fraud
and conducting an illegal lottery.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Puget Sound Power &amp; Light Co.:
   Transmission Line Project
   Set With Federal Agency
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PSD
</CO>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Bonneville Power Administration, a federal agency that
sells power wholesale in the Northwest, and Puget Sound Power
&amp; Light Co., a Bellevue, Wash., utility, said they agreed to
construct various transmission lines north of Seattle at a
joint cost of $21 million.
   A spokeswoman for Bonneville Power, based in Portland,
Ore., said the transmission lines will be in the fast-growing
areas of Whatcom and Skagit counties, and will provide about
850 more megawatts of power and 21 miles of transmission
lines to the two counties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement, Bonneville will rebuild one of its
transmission lines and update equipment at some of its power
substations. Puget Sound Power &amp; Light will build two lines
branching off of the rebuilt Bonneville power line.
   The Bonneville spokeswoman said each company will receive
half of the power from the lines, or 425 megawatts each. The
lines are expected to increase both companies' ability to
draw on Canadian power supplies. The agreement requires an
environmental impact report and U.S. Energy Department
approval.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, August 17, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                               Stock   N.A.  Stock     %
   Fund Name                   Exch.  Value  Price    Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express               NYSE   17.77  15 3/4  - 11.37
   Baker Fentress              NYSE   21.50  17      - 20.93
   Blue Chip Value             NYSE    6.86   6 1/8  - 10.71
   Clemente Global Gro         NYSE  b11.88   9 7/8  - 16.88
   Gemini II Capital           NYSE   13.20  11      - 16.67
   Gemini II Income            NYSE    9.69  12 1/2  + 29.00
   General Amer Invest         NYSE   22.02  18 1/8  - 17.69
   Growth Stock Outlook        NYSE   10.38   9 3/4  -  6.07
   Liberty All-Star Eqty       NYSE    9.00   7 5/8  - 15.28
   Niagara Share Corp.         NYSE   16.91  13 3/4  - 18.69
   Nicholas-Applegate          NYSE   10.51   9 3/4  -  7.23
   Quest For Value Cap         NYSE   16.97  11 7/8  - 30.02
   Quest For Value Inco        NYSE   11.60  13      + 12.07
   Royce Value Trust           NYSE    9.74   8 1/2  - 12.73
   Salomon Fd                  NYSE   13.94  11 5/8  - 16.61
   Source Capital              NYSE   38.03  40 1/8  +  5.51
   Tri-Continental Corp.       NYSE   26.48  22 5/8  - 14.56
   Worldwide Value             NYSE   17.60  14 7/8  - 15.48
   Zweig Fund                  NYSE   10.60  11      +  3.77
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs         AMEX    6.83   5 5/8  - 17.64
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr        NYSE   b7.86   9      + 14.50
   Franklin Universal Tr       NYSE   b7.67   7 3/8  -  3.85
   Municipal High Inco         NYSE    9.40   9 1/2  +  1.06
   Zenix Income Fund           NYSE    6.28   5 7/8  -  6.45
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds

   America's All Seasn         OTC     5.90   4 1/2  - 23.73
   European Warrant Fd         NYSE   10.54   8 3/4  - 16.98
   Franklin M-M Inco           NYSE   b8.68   8 3/8  -  3.51
   Zweig Total Return Fd       NYSE    9.04   8 7/8  -  1.83
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance Global Env Fd      NYSE   13.54  10 1/2  - 22.45
   Alliance New Europe Fd      NYSE   11.36   9 1/2  - 16.37
   American Capital Conv       NYSE   21.02  18 1/4  - 13.18
   ASA Ltd                     NYSE bc68.19  55 3/4  - 18.24
   Asia Pacific                NYSE   14.52  12 1/4  - 15.63
   Austria Fund                NYSE   14.68  11 3/4  - 19.96
   Bancroft Convertible        AMEX   19.91  17      - 14.62
   Bergstrom Capital           AMEX   61.00  60 7/8  -  0.20
   BGR Precious Metals         TOR  be11.48   9 5/8  - 16.16
   Brazil                      NYSE   11.37   9      - 20.84
   CNV Holdings Capital        NYSE    9.07   4 5/8  - 49.01
   CNV Holdings Income         NYSE    9.49  10 3/4  + 13.28
   Castle Convertible          AMEX   20.55  17 3/8  - 15.45
   Central Fund Canada         AMEX   b5.20   5 1/2  +  5.77
   Central Securities          AMEX   10.52   8 3/4  - 16.83
   Chile Fund                  NYSE   16.41  15 1/4  -  7.07
   Couns Tandem Secs           NYSE   12.44   9 7/8  - 20.62
   Cypress Fund                AMEX    9.09   8 3/4  -  3.74
   Duff &amp; Phelps Sel Utils     NYSE    7.89   8 1/8  +  2.98
   Ellsw Conv Gr &amp; Inc         AMEX    7.89   6 3/4  - 14.45
   Emerging Ger Fd             NYSE   10.75   8 1/4  - 23.26
   Engex                       AMEX   10.55   8 5/16 - 21.21
   Europe Fund                 NYSE   14.27  11 1/2  - 19.41
   1st Australia               AMEX   10.31   8 3/4  - 15.13
   First Financial Fund        NYSE    5.75   5 7/8  +  2.17
   First Iberian               AMEX   10.85   9 7/8  -  8.99
   First Philippine Fund       NYSE   10.71   8      - 25.30
   France Growth Fund          NYSE  y11.05   8 7/8  - 19.68
   Future Germany Fund         NYSE   16.21  12 3/8  - 23.66
   Gabelli Equity Trust        NYSE   10.89  10 5/8  -  2.43
   Germany Fund                NYSE   12.72  12 3/8  -  2.71
   Global Utilities Fund       NYSE   10.82   9      - 16.82
   Growth Fund Spain           NYSE   11.83   9      - 23.92
   GT Greater Europe Fd        NYSE   13.55  11 5/8  - 14.21
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv          NYSE   12.01  10 1/4  - 14.65
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap        AMEX  b10.97   9 5/8  - 12.26
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref       AMEX  b49.32  48 1/2  -  1.66
   India Growth Fund           NYSE  f15.94  15 1/8  -  5.11
   Indonesia Fund              NYSE   14.06  12 3/4  -  9.32
   Inefficient Market Fund     AMEX   10.11   9      - 10.98
   Irish Investment Fd         NYSE   10.33   7 5/8  - 26.19
   Italy Fund                  NYSE  b14.81  12 5/8  - 14.75
   Jakarta Growth Fd           NYSE   10.57  10 1/4  -  3.03
   Japan OTC Equity Fund       NYSE   12.20   9 3/4  - 20.08
   Korea Fund                  NYSE   12.71  16 5/8  + 30.80
   Latin America Inv Fd        NYSE   13.36  11 1/8  - 16.73
   Malaysia Fund               NYSE   14.08  13 7/8  -  1.46
   Mexico Fund                 NYSE  b15.67  15 1/4  -  2.68
   Morgan Grenf Sm Cap         NYSE    9.97   8 7/8  - 10.98

   Pacific Eur Growth Fd       NYSE   10.72  10      -  6.72
   Patriot Prem Div Fd         NYSE    8.22  10 1/4  + 24.70
   Patriot Prem Div Fd II      NYSE    9.56  11      + 15.06
   Patriot Select Div Trust    NYSE   13.90  14 7/8  +  7.01
   Petrol &amp; Resources          NYSE   32.51  32 3/8  -  0.42
   Pilgrim Regional            NYSE    7.87   7 1/2  -  4.70
   Putnam Dividend Inco        NYSE    9.71   9 3/4  +  0.41
   Portugal Fund               NYSE   13.41  11 3/4  - 12.38
   Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd       AMEX    6.15   5 3/8  - 12.60
   ROC Taiwan Fund             NYSE    8.49   9 1/8  +  7.48
   Scudder New Asia            NYSE   18.45  13 7/8  - 24.80
   Scudder New Europe          NYSE   11.94   9 1/4  - 22.53
   SE Savings Inst Fd          OTC    b7.11   6      - 15.61
   Singapore Fd                NYSE  b10.94  10 3/8  -  5.16
   Spain Fund                  NYSE   14.39  14 1/2  +  0.76
   Swiss Helvetia Fd           NYSE   14.63  12 7/8  - 12.00
   Taiwan Fund                 NYSE  b16.65  23 5/8  + 41.89
   TCW Convertible Secs        NYSE   b7.69   8 1/4  +  7.28
   Templeton Em Mkts           AMEX  b16.31  14 7/8  -  8.80
   Templeton Value Fund        NYSE   b9.38   8 5/8  -  8.05
   Thai Capital Fund           NYSE   10.59  10      -  5.57
   Thai Fund                   NYSE   20.64  19 1/4  -  6.73
   Turkish Inv Fund            NYSE   15.58  11 1/4  - 27.79
   United Kingdom Fund         NYSE   11.53   9 3/8  - 18.69
   Z-Seven                     OTC    13.05  13 3/8  +  2.49
                                                                                                       

   b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at Commercial Rand
exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of Wednesday's
close. y-As of August 10th the MMKT CLS at 8, DISC -19.83.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook:
   Oil's Economic Threat
   Is Less Than in '70s
   ----
   By Peter Truell
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- When Iraq sent its tanks cruising into
Kuwait and massed its troops on Saudi Arabia's border, it
cast a giant question mark over much of the world's oil
reserves. The three countries, after all, contain about 45%
of all the earth's oil resources and account for almost 20%
of all present productive capacity. Thus, on the surface,
Saddam Hussein might seem as serious a threat to global
economic health as the Arab oil embargo of 1973 or the
Iranian revolution of 1979, both of which threw the Western
economies for a loop as they sent oil prices soaring.
   But the world is better prepared this time. The
international oil market is more sophisticated and
transparent. It is painfully aware that prices can go down as
well as up. The industrial nations are less dependent on oil
than they were a decade ago, and oil stocks are at historic
highs. Governments are doing a better job of responding to
the crisis. And most importantly, the widespread panic that
made the 1970s crises so devastating is largely absent.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   A few simple figures show how dramatically the Western
economies have reduced their energy reliance since the 1970s.
In the U.S., the amount of energy required to produce $1,000
worth of national output dropped to 0.44 of a ton of oil in
1988 from 0.55 in 1979, according to Cambridge Energy
Research Associates. In Japan, the drop was even more
dramatic, falling to 0.27 in 1988 from 0.35 in 1979. The
shift is partly due to a relative decline in heavy-industry
manufacturing in the industrialized countries, but is also
the result of efforts to conserve fuels.
                                                                                                       

   Moreover, the industrialized economies in the 1980s
succeeded in diversifying their sources of energy and making
their economies more flexible. U.S. industry can save an
estimated hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil a day
simply by switching boilers to natural gas and other fuels.
"The impact of the current crisis on oil prices and the
global economy is likely to be small in comparison to the oil
shock of 1973-74 and 1979 because most countries have been
able to significantly reduce dependence on oil," says Thomas
J. Berger at the London office of Swiss fund manager Lombard
Odier.
   In addition, the suppliers of oil in the world have become
far more diverse. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries has in recent months accounted for barely a third
of the world's oil production, down from more than half in
1974. And Cambridge Energy Associates estimates there is now
as much as 600,000 barrels a day of additional potential
production capacity outside of OPEC, in the U.S., the North
Sea, Mexico and elsewhere.
                                                                                                       

   But perhaps the most striking difference between the
current crisis and those of the 1970s is the absence of
panic. No milieu better dramatized Roosevelt's maxim about
fear: Panic buying, tank topping and widespread hoarding is
what drove oil prices sky high in the 1970s, as people and
companies feared oil at $70 a barrel or more -- or feared
that oil would be unavailable at any price. The doomsayers of
the seventies forgot that as prices went up, new sources of
supply would become economic. Instead of reaching $70 a
barrel, oil peaked at close to $40 a barrel.
                                                                                                       

   In some countries, there also was massive diversification
away from oil to other forms of energy, such as
hydroelectricity and nuclear power. In the U.S., a
complicated system of price controls made the situation
worse, playing havoc with supply and serving to heighten
panic, hoarding and price hysteria.
   This time, a conspicuous confidence in the world's ability
to weather the crisis has kept oil price increases far more
modest, in percentage terms, than the tripling and doubling
of prices that occurred in the 1970s.
   President Bush's decisive action stands in sharp contrast
to Jimmy Carter's dithering in 1979 and to the terror and
paralysis that struck the major industrial economies in the
1973-1974 oil embargo. The swift U.S.-led military response
to Iraq's invasion -- at least for now -- has removed much of
the threat to the world's richest oil fields, which produce
more than seven million barrels of oil a day. Saudi Arabia,
Venezuela and possibly the United Arab Emirates are
apparently willing to increase their output to offset much of
the loss of Iraq and Kuwaiti oil. And in contrast to 1979,
the U.S. has appeared to retain the initiative.
                                                                                                       

   "Nobody declared an embargo on the U.S., we declared an
embargo on them," says Vahan Zanoyan of the Petroleum Finance
Co., a Washington consultancy. "We're hitting, we aren't
being hit. There's a very important psychological
difference."
                                                                                                       

   To be sure, no matter how successful the West is in
preventing panic, the current crisis will exact its costs.
There will be continuing disruption as consumers who bought
Kuwaiti and Iraqi oil struggle to find alternative supplies.
That will be particularly tough for Japan and other Pacific
nations who have relied on Kuwait's refined oil products, and
also for developing nations like Brazil and India that import
a lot of Iraqi crude.
   Moreover, if the current face-off between Presidents Bush
and Hussein continues, the world's reserves may slowly be
drawn down, and oil prices will climb higher. In addition,
the Iraqi crisis looks like it may be just bad enough to
nudge the already-teetering U.S. economy brink into
recession.
   But barring an undeterred Iraqi invasion of the Saudi oil
fields -- which is increasingly unlikely -- the world will
emerge from this crisis far less scarred than it did from
those of the 1970s.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Dart Drug Stores Inc.:
   Maryland Discount Retailer
   To Liquidate the Company
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   DDRQC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Dart Drug Stores Inc. said it will liquidate the company
because it has been unable to develop a plan of
reorganization acceptable to creditors.
   The Landover, Md., discount retailer, which owes about
$130 million, said it plans to close all 65 Fantle's
Drugstores in the Washington area by early November.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dart Drug filed for protection from creditors under
Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code about a year ago.
The company said it plans to sell its inventory and store
leases as soon as it has authorization from the bankruptcy
court, but declined to estimate proceeds.
   The company said it owes about $24 million to its major
secured creditor Mellon Bank Corp. in Pittsburgh. Trustees
for the largest groups of unsecured bondholders are
Continental Stock Transfer &amp; Trust Co., with debt of about
$101 million, and Signet Trust Co., with about $29 million.
   In April 1989, Dart Drug changed the name of its stores to
Fantle's and tried a new store format in an effort to boost
sales and profits. Sheldon W. Fantle, chairman and chief
executive officer, said strong competition and a sluggish
economy prevented the company from fully implementing its
marketing strategy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Geo. A. Hormel &amp; Co.:
   Net Income Declined 12%
   In the Fiscal Third Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4D
</SO>
<CO>
   HRL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Geo. A. Hormel &amp; Co. said its fiscal third quarter net
income dropped 12% because it had to pay high prices for
hogs.
   The Austin, Minn.-based meat processor said profit was
$12.6 million, or 16 cents a share, for the quarter ended
July 28, compared with $14.3 million, or 18 cents a share, a
year earlier. The year-earlier per-share figure is adjusted
to reflect a 2-for-1 stock split paid Jan. 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales rose 16% to $654.7 million from $564.0 million.
   Profit margins were hurt by the jump in the price of hogs,
which the company buys to make meat products. Although the
price of pork products jumped by some measures to a record
level in supermarkets earlier this summer, Hormel said it
still wasn't able to immediately pass along all of its
increased costs to customers.
   The price of fattened hogs was high earlier this year
because of unusually small herds. Hormel said that the supply
of hogs is gradually increasing and that its raw material
costs are moderating.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Pioneer Electronic Corp.:
   Pretax Profit Rose 32%
   In Fiscal First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PIO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pioneer Electronic Corp. said strong sales lifted its
consolidated pretax profit 32% in the first quarter ended
June 30.
   Pretax profit rose to 19.884 billion yen from 15.089
billion yen a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Net income rose 67% to 9.922 billion ($673 million) yen
from 5.955 billion yen ($404 million). Per-share net rose to
55.25 yen from 35.79 yen.
   Sales rose 31% to 141.672 billion yen ($9.6 billion) from
107.859 billion yen ($7.3 billion). Sales of laser and
compact disk players and their related software were
particularly strong, according to Pioneer.
   The value of sales abroad was also increased by the
weakness of the yen in the first quarter, compared with a
year earlier, the company said. Pioneer marked 82.044 billion
yen of sales overseas, 58% of the total.
   Pioneer didn't release a forecast for full-year results,
but said it expects sales to rise further, aided by
introduction of new products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Latest Sell-Off of `Junk' Focuses
   On Bonds Vulnerable in Downturn
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MLP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
PETROLEUM (PET)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
AIRLINES (AIR)
TRUCKING (TRK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Fears of a recession are sending some "junk"
bond investors running for cover.
   But unlike the big 1989 sell-offs, when investors dumped
high-yield, below-investment-grade junk bonds almost
indiscriminately, the selling this time is focused on issues
that have the most to lose in an economic downturn.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Investors are bailing out of chemical, housing and other
cyclical issues. Meanwhile, Wall Street analysts have been
urging clients to push their money into bonds issued by
supermarkets, food companies and other traditionally
noncyclical industries -- and investors seem to be doing just
that.
   "We're positioned for a recession," said Jim Sullivan,
president of Sullivan Money Management Inc. in Houston, a
$100 million junk-bond investor. "We've been buying bonds of
cosmetic companies like Mary Kay and Revlon, food purveyors,
and some of the {less-leveraged} cable-TV companies."
   Mr. Sullivan said he is shying away from heavy-industrial
companies' bonds, as well as bonds issued by casinos,
jewelers or other companies that rely on growth in disposable
income.
   Since the beginning of August, some once well-regarded
junk bonds of industrial companies have taken a pounding.
Quantum Chemical Corp.'s 13% bonds of 2004, which had traded
at 84 1/4 cents on the dollar as recently as Aug. 3, tumbled
8.6% by last Friday to 77 cents on the dollar.
   Similarly, the textile maker Burlington Industries Inc.'s
13 7/8% bonds of 2000, which had traded at 85 cents on the
dollar as recently as Aug. 10, slipped to 81 cents by last
Friday. The reason, according to Catherine Montgomery, head
of research at Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp.:
"Fear of a recession."
   Overall, however, the junk-bond market in the past few
weeks has held up much better than the rout in
heavy-industrial companies' bonds would suggest. This is
partly because investors are moving into noncyclical issues,
and partly because the junk-bond market has already done
plenty of adjusting to bad news in the past 18 months.
   Financial markets in general have tumbled since Iraq's
Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait, because of worries about sharply
higher oil prices and their implications for U.S. economy.
But while the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index has fallen
6.7% this month, the broad junk-bond market is down only 2%,
according to First Boston Corp., or off 3%, according to
Salomon Brothers Inc. By comparison, 10-year Treasury notes
have fallen about 2.3%.
   "Stocks were a little late in realizing what the junk-bond
market knew a while earlier: We're heading into recession,"
said Mark Durbiano, a portfolio manager at Federated Research
Corp. Mr. Durbiano has eked out total returns of about 3% for
clients this year, slightly above the average for junk-bond
mutual funds. But he is cautious about the outlook for the
next year.
   For some highly leveraged, economically sensitive
junk-bond issuers, "Their viability will come into question,"
Mr. Durbiano said. "It will be a matter of whether they can
make it past the bottom of this cycle."
   Reflecting his economic worries, Mr. Durbiano said, his
junk-bond portfolio is concentrated in supermarket issues,
such as Safeway Stores Inc., Kroger Co., Tops Markets Inc.
and Eagle Food Centers Inc., and in cable-television issues.
Most of these issues declined only 1% to 4% in the August
sell-off.
   Energy junk bonds also are attracting some notice, as the
Mideast conflict is leading to higher oil prices. Mr.
Durbiano said he is looking at Mesa L.P. bonds, though he
hasn't decided whether he will buy them. Citicorp calculates
that energy-related junk bonds declined just 0.3% so far in
August, one of the best showings for an industry group.
   Several junk-bond specialists argue that even after the
past 2 1/2 weeks' sharp price adjustments, the exodus from
recession-sensitive bonds may have farther to go.
   In a report reaching clients last week, Citicorp's
high-yield research director, Mariel Clemensen, wrote that
her "first impressions" were that the Mideast oil shock would
be negative for bonds issued by building materials, casino,
metals, restaurant, airline and trucking companies. It would
be neutral to positive for cable-TV, machinery, oil and gas,
and supermarket issues, she said.
   Last Friday, Ms. Clemensen said she expanded her analysis
with a more detailed review. The importance of separating
recession-prone bonds from others still holds, she said,
"only more so."
   ---

                                                                                                       

                                        JUNK-BOND RETURNS
   INDUSTRY                            (AUG. 1 TO AUG. 17)
                                                                                                       

   Casinos                                    -7.8%
   Building Materials                         -7.1
   Paper                                      -5.8
   Chemicals                                  -4.6
   Retailers                                  -3.6
   CITICORP INDEX                             -2.5
   Cable/Broadcasting                         -1.7
   Health Care                                -0.9
   Oil and Gas                                -0.3
   Utilities                                  -0.6
   Food and Beverage                           1.8
                                                                                                       

   Source: Citicorp
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Elders IXL Ltd:
   Carter Holt Harvey Buys
   Stake in Elders Resources
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   A.EXL A.ELD C.CHH
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Elders IXL Ltd. of Australia said it completed the sale of
its 52.7% stake in Elders Resources Ltd. of New Zealand to
Carter Holt Harvey Ltd. of New Zealand.
   John Elliott, chairman and chief executive officer, and
other Elders IXL officials resigned from the board of Elders
Resources, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The conclusion of this sale represents a further
significant step in the company's progress toward its
transformation into a single-purpose international brewer,"
Elders IXL said. The brewing, resources, agribusiness and
financial-services concern is selling assets to focus on
brewing interests in Australia, Canada and Britain.
   Carter Holt, a forestry concern, agreed in June to acquire
Elders Resources for a base price of 623 million Australian
dollars (US$502 million). That price can be adjusted up or
down, depending on prices received for a proposed sale of
mining assets held by Elders Resources.
   Elders IXL was to receive A$414 million (US$333.6 million)
on settlement of the sale, with the balance payable as the
mining assets are sold. The sale represents a loss of about
A$500 million (US$402 million) to Elders IXL on book value.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   OIL PRICES MAY LEVEL OFF in the coming week following
Saudi Arabia's pledge to boost output as much as two million
barrels a day, making up about half the amount lost from the
Iraq-Kuwait embargo. The Saudis plan to take the action with
or without OPEC's approval. Some other oil exporters,
including Venezuela and the United Arab Emirates, also are
expected to increase output. Last week, benchmark U.S. crude
topped $28 a barrel, up about $8 since the Iraqi invasion of
Kuwait Aug. 2.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Interest rates are expected to continue climbing around
the world, which could spell more trouble for the U.S. bond
market. Bonds were mixed Friday, while stocks tumbled on
growing Mideast tensions. The dollar hit a new low against
the mark.
                                                                                                       

   Junk bond investors are running for cover again amid fears
of a recession. But the sell-off this time is focused on
issues that have the most to lose in an economic downturn.
   ---
   The U.S. trade deficit shrank to a seven-year low of $5.07
billion in June, helped by lower oil prices and record
exports. But the improvement isn't expected to continue
because of the recent surge in petroleum costs.
   ---
   Far West Financial said thrift regulators rejected its
plan to boost capital, and they imposed operating
restrictions on the S&amp;L concern. Far West increased loss
reserves by $16.9 million for the second quarter.
   ---
   Federated and Allied Stores asked a bankruptcy court for a
five-month extension to file a reorganization plan. The
request by the Campeau retail units will be heard next month.
   ---
   PaineWebber's chief of takeover stock trading, William
Kaye, quit after the firm moved to cut his authority and
change his compensation.
   ---
   A decision on Trump's $65 million bank bailout was delayed
until tomorrow by New Jersey casino regulators. The
authorities approved Merv Griffin's plan to have Resorts
International emerge from Chapter 11.
   ---
   Times Publishing rid itself of a troublesome shareholder.
The parent of the St. Petersburg Times agreed to buy back the
40% owned by a group including billionaire Robert Bass.
   ---
   Magazines are expected to ask advertisers for hefty 1991
rate increases of 4% to 8% despite a continued slide in
circulation.
   ---
   U.S. beer shipments rose 1.8% in the first half after
nearly a decade of stagnating sales, a trade group says.
   ---
   AMR's regional airline has nearly completed negotiations
on an aircraft order that could total as much as $800
million, people in the industry say.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 212,560,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2644.80, off 36.64; transportation 923.91, off 15.87;
utilities 201.14, off 1.45.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3336.43, off
2.57.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 134.45, off 0.22;
spot index 133.83, up 2.06.
   Dollar: 147.58 yen, up 0.33; 1.5495 marks, off 0.0030.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Texas House Race Isn't Just a Battle of the Sexes,
   But Also of Finances, Influence and Attitudes
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   CROCKETT, Texas -- It is a battle of the sexes that even
Charlie Wilson couldn't have dreamt up.
   For most of two decades, the tall and handsome Texas
Democrat has cut a swath through Congress as a roguish ladies
man and macho militarist. Now the Cold War is over, and, at
age 57, he is under attack from a hazel-eyed West Point
helicopter pilot whose femininity is a weapon against him.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I fit beautifully in the front seat," says Donna Peterson
of her old Army gunship. Today she campaigns on country roads
in a 1956 Chevy painted white and robin's-egg blue, her hair
freshly curled, wearing a sailor suit that effects a military
air.
   "Women are very tired of all of our role models having to
look like men," says the Republican challenger, just 30 last
month. With a smile, she needles Mr. Wilson. "I make him very
nervous," she says. "He sweats. Charlie's worried about his
job at this point."
   In suspenders and epaulets, Mr. Wilson fights back from an
air-conditioned, rolling office bigger than an M-1 tank. "The
Battle Hymn of the Republic" plays softly as the soundtrack
in his latest television ad. A second spot will list all the
federal projects he's brought home as a member of the House
Appropriations Committee. He nicknames the ad "Porkbarrel."
   He writes fund-raising appeals under the Appropriations
Committee letterhead as a reminder of his power. With
satisfaction, the Democrat -- who sometimes looks like the
French actor Jean-Paul Belmondo plunked down in a hot Texas
summer -- pauses to count Navy barges coming off the line at
a shipyard owned by a financial backer. "One, two, three,
four, five," he says. "And there's $27 million more in this
year's bill."
   Other House races will be more closely contested this
fall, but few offer a more colorful picture of rural Southern
politics adapting to an international world turned upside
down. When the Berlin Wall fell, Southern Democrats -- like
Republicans -- lost an issue. A pro-military, anti-communist
stance was a staple of Mr. Wilson's past campaigns and a
means of blunting conservative attacks. Like a roughneck
ranger when the outlaws are gone, he must adjust to new
fences.
   Before ready cameras, the Texan once climbed on a white
horse to ride alongside the Afghan guerrillas and wage war
against the Soviet "Evil Empire." But now Ms. Peterson calls
him back to home and hearth. "I Care" is her slogan, and she
casts herself as the champion of East Texas "Christian
values" against an incumbent too taken with worldly events
and worldly pleasures. "When was the last time Charlie Wilson
ever came home except for votes?" she asks supporters in
Liberty County. "He cons us. And then goes back to
Washington."
   Ms. Peterson, though a skilled speaker, is hurt by her
inexperience and lacks the financial support necessary to
make herself known in this sprawling district. Her own
polling claims Mr. Wilson faces a disenchantment among
voters, but Mr. Wilslon's superior finances and political
savvy make Ms. Peterson the decided underdog. Her coyness and
naivete can be off-putting -- but then again, this is Texas,
where the gubernatorial campaign this year pits
multimillionaire Republican rancher and oilman Clayton
Williams against Democrat Ann Richards, the state treasurer.
   Mr. Williams, "The Cowboy" to voters here, has drawn fire
for insensitive remarks about rape and prostitution. In the
latest controversy, one of the top figures in his campaign
has admitted taking two friends on a training exercise --
dubbed "the ultimate hunt" -- using hounds to track down
inmates at a state prison unit.
   Ms. Peterson suggests an alliance to overcome Mr.
Williams's chauvinist image. "If he could help me with my
financial gap," she says, "I would help him with his gender
gap."
   Women should be a source of strength for her own campaign.
Mr. Wilson's escapades are hardly feminist; he once cut money
for the Defense Intelligence Agency after it denied a seat on
a government plane to a Miss World-USA who was a former
girlfriend. But Ms. Peterson has sacrificed ground with women
in building her conservative base. It is Mr. Wilson who
emerges as the abortion-rights candidate, for instance. And
while Ms. Peterson sides with the timber industry, he appeals
to women again by sponsoring pro-environment legislation to
protect 14,000 acres of forest land from lumbering and clear
cutting.
   Mr. Wilson has survived this long by being nobody's fool.
Nearly three-quarters of his campaign funds come from
political committees representing vested interests, and when
East Texas pharmacists press their case against drug
manufacturers, he readily signs up with mock humor. "They
have never contributed a penny to my campaign," he says, "so
I'll help you get 'em."
   What distinguishes him most is this use of power and
showmanship to create a maverick, particularly Texan persona.
His home in Lufkin is decorated with a wall of automatic
weapons set next to rows of toy soldiers. Mr. Wilson, a Naval
Academy graduate, in fact gave up hunting himself after
killing his first squirrel. Behind the bombast is a skinny,
small-town boy who grew up worshiping frontier heroes. If the
Communists are vanquished, he will now stand up for trees.
"Davy Crockett wouldn't be for clear cutting," he says in his
best "Don't burn the flag" voice.
   While still in the Navy, Mr. Wilson worked in John
Kennedy's 1960 presidential campaign, and before the year was
out ran for and won a seat in the Texas legislature from his
home town of Trinity. The congressman reached out publicly
for black support in running for his first seat, and the
black vote -- about 11% of the district -- remains an
important part of his base.
   Covering all or part of 16 counties, his district is among
the most Democratic but also most Southern of Texas. Michael
Dukakis won here in 1988 but so did George Wallace two
decades before. Voters betray new resentments toward people
outside of their world, such as Japanese and homosexuals. Ms.
Peterson's campaign -- and more generally the state
Republican Party -- play on this fear of homosexuals, and Mr.
Wilson has to pick his way gingerly through a question over
why he voted only to reprimand his colleague, Rep. Barney
Frank, for ethics violations arising from the Massachusetts
Democrat's relationship with a male prostitute.
   In Lufkin and Orange, there are clear signs of economic
promise after years of trouble, but more-rural areas lag
behind. Laverl Edwards, a farmer in Liberty County, worries
about the impact of the Iraq embargo on his rice sales, and
Mr. Wilson has angered old friends and supporters by his
handling of the timber issue. In rural counties, any
limitation on timber sales detracts from precious revenues
for public schools. "You've got to draw a line," says George
Bass, who is president of Atchley Lumber &amp; Supply Inc. in
Trinity. "And we've drawn the line."
   Many agree with Mr. Wilson's commitment to selective
cutting, which will better preserve East Texas's heritage of
diverse trees apart from pine. But there is a sense, too,
that he has forgotten a bit of that heritage himself and must
come back first to the roots where he began.
   Like many incumbents, his campaign is financed almost
entirely by money from outside his district, and there is a
hurt among some of those who have known him longest. "He's a
pretty sophisticated urban individual now," says Dr. Sam
Barnes, for decades a Wilson family friend -- who nonetheless
remains undecided about supporting the congressman again.
"He's completely ignored us for several years."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   More Global Rate Hikes Are Seen,
   A Troubling Trend for U.S. Bonds
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP FORGN RJR MZ USG ABC RT.A
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Interest rates are expected to continue
climbing around the world and that could spell more trouble
for the U.S. bond market.
   U.S. rates already have surged -- pummeling bond prices --
on fears that the recent oil price surge will fuel broader
inflation. But rates are going up in other major industrial
countries, too.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And now, just when the sagging U.S. economy might is
pressuring the U.S. Federal Reserve to reduce short-term
interest rates, central banks in other parts of the world
appear ready to push rates higher. When that happens,
analysts say, long-term U.S. bonds are sure to suffer the
repercussions.
   "We're not saying that U.S. bond rates will increase
dramatically," says Anita Lauria, an international analyst at
Salomon Brothers Inc. "But higher rates abroad at the very
least will put a floor under the U.S. market and prevent
{long-term} rates from falling" even if the Fed eases here.
   Economists expect central banks in Japan and West Germany,
both of which faced rising inflation even before the oil
price jump, to boost interest rates in coming months. A move
by West Germany's Bundesbank could inspire similar moves by
France, Switzerland, the Netherlands and other countries.
   The U.S. competes in a global market for capital and so
can't afford to ignore rates in other countries. In fact,
many economists argue that interest rates around the world
are linked and that a surge in one country spills over into
the next country.
   That's exactly what happened earlier this year when talk
of German unification first materialized. World bond markets
were clobbered in the worst decline since the early 1980s,
and interest rates surged as investors worried that combining
East and West Germany would lead to soaring economic growth
and, in turn, blowout inflation. Now the international
markets are facing another round of global rate increases.
   "It is likely that we will see rate increases in Japan as
soon as the equity market stabilizes -- maybe by September,"
said David Boardman, executive vice president at Rowe Price
Fleming International Inc., London. "West Germany will also
raise rates, but they may hold off" until later in the year.
   Both Japan and West Germany are raising rates in an effort
to curb inflationary pressures brought about by strong
economic growth. Japan's gross national product is growing at
an annual rate in excess of 6% and its labor markets are
extremely tight. Although Japan's inflation rate is just over
2%, the nation is considered more vulnerable than other
countries to the inflationary impact of rising oil prices.
   The Bank of Japan, which has been far more aggressive in
fighting inflation than the Federal Reserve, has warned
several times that it will eventually raise the official
discount rate from its current 5.25% level. Analysts at
Salomon Brothers believe the rate could rise between 3/4 and
one full percentage point.
   West Germany, which has an inflation rate of about 3.3%,
is expected to raise its discount rate one full percentage
point later this year from a current level of 6%. Although
inflation is a major impetus for the Bundesbank to raise
rates, bond yields are expected to rise significantly in
advance of any rate increase, because of heavy issuance of
new debt.
   West Germany is under pressure to raise large sums of cash
quickly to stave off collapse of the East Germany economy. To
cover reunification expenses for the balance of this year,
West German officials indicated they need an additional 12
billion marks ($7.73 billion), much of which is expected to
be borrowed in the bond market.
   Meanwhile, the Bank of England said Thursday that it plans
to keep policy tight to bring down its stubbornly high 10%
inflation rate. The United Kingdom is a net exporter of oil
and therefore has been cushioned more than other countries
from the impact of higher oil prices. But wages in that
nation are surging. Last month, the average earnings growth
rate rose to 10% and pay levels are expected to jump even
higher this fall when wage settlements take effect.
   As bleak as the international rate outlook may appear,
some money managers argue that these are good times to
consider investing in foreign bonds.
   Not only are coupon rates in many countries higher than
rates in the U.S., but the U.S. dollar is expected to
depreciate further on foreign exchange markets if the Federal
Reserve reduces short-term interest rates while foreign
governments are raising rates. And when the value of the
dollar falls against, say, the British pound, then securities
denominated in pounds appreciate relative to securities
denominated in dollars.
   The rules for international investing have changed, some
investors say. In the mid-1980s there were more reasons to
invest in the U.S. than in Europe. "You had higher interest
rates in the U.S. than abroad, and when bond markets rallied,
the U.S. rallied most," says Nicholas P. Sargen, director of
international bond research at Salomon Brothers.
   Today, however, he says, "the difference is that around
the world, U.S. interest rates are below those in most
countries, and only fractionally above those in Japan. So
around the world, you can get yield enhancement to go
overseas."
   For example, yields on 10-year government bonds are about
8.75% in the U.S. compared with 12% in Britain, 10.5% in
Canada, 10% in France, 13.5% in Australia, 14.5% in Spain and
15% in New Zealand.
   Some money managers are aggressively investing in the
high-yielding countries. But to avoid potential price
declines that can occur as rates rise, these money managers
are buying short-term rather than long-term securities.
   Klaus J. Buescher, a portfolio manager at Van Eck
Associates Corp., said the value of the world bond fund he
manages has risen consistently in recent weeks even though
prices of world bonds have tumbled. He said the fund, which
is heavily weighted with short-term Spanish and New Zealand
securities, has an average maturity of 3.5 years.
   "We were not caught in the downturn," he said. "Whatever
suffering we experienced due to price erosion was more than
offset by the strength of foreign currencies."
   Meanwhile, at a time when the Federal Reserve is expected
to ease monetary policy, money managers who guide
international bond funds are reducing their exposure to the
U.S. bond market for two reasons. They believe that a move by
the Fed will make coupons on short-term securities
unattractive. Meanwhile, long-term securities may continue to
suffer from inflation expectations and a softer dollar.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   After four days of volatile and hectic trading, the bond
market ended the week on a quiet note with prices posting
modest changes.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended just slightly
lower at a price of 98, down from 98 2/32 on Thursday. The
issue's yield edged higher to 8.93% from 8.92%.
   Four-year Treasury notes were about 1/8 point higher at
100 15/32 to yield 8.33% compared with 100 11/32 to yield
8.46% on Thursday. Two-year notes ended unchanged at 99 26/32
to yield 8.08%.
   The lack of erratic trading was in marked contrast to the
rollercoaster ride that has been the hallmark of trading for
most of the week.
   "The market sort of went to sleep," says Robert Brusca,
economist at Nikko Securities Co. International Inc. The
economist said that Friday's report on merchandise trade
contained enough of both bullish and bearish information to
keep prices from rocking.
   In the corporate bond market, junk bonds registered more
losses as declining equity prices dragged the high-yield
market sharply lower.
   But top-quality corporate bonds fared much better and
ended the day unchanged.
   Among the junk bonds that lost ground were widely held
pay-in-kind bonds of RJR Nabisco Inc. RJR's 17 3/8%
convertible pay-in-kind debentures fell 1 point to 111 1/ 2
on the New York Stock Exchange. Pay-in-kind bonds pay
interest in the form of additional securities.
   Also hurt were junk bonds of R.H. Macy &amp; Co. and USG Corp.
   Macy's 14.5% subordinated debentures maturing in 2001 fell
1 point to end at 55 1/2 while USG's 13.25% senior
subordinated debentures due in 2000 also shed 1 point to
close at 55.
   "People are selling things that they think are going to
get crushed in a recession," said one high-yield trader.
   The junk bonds of AmBase Corp. slipped further on Friday
after plunging more than 13 points Thursday. The bonds had
been deteriorating on fears that the sale of the company's
Home Insurance Co. unit may be blocked by regulators or
disgruntled shareholders.
   AmBase's 14.875% senior subordinated notes finished down
1/4 point at 81 1/2.
   Some junk bonds of Resorts International Inc. managed to
post a small gain on news that the U.S. bankruptcy court in
Camden, N.J., and the New Jersey Casino Control Commission
separately approved the company's reorganization plan. The
beleaguered casino and hotel operator had been operating
under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code since
December 1989.
   Resort International's 11 3/8% subordinated debentures,
due in 2013, finished up 1 point at 17.
   ---
   Michael Sesit contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manufacturers National
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4D
</SO>
<CO>
   MNTL
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Manufacturers National Corp.'s board approved a
plan to repurchase as many as 200,000 shares of the banking
company's common stock.
   The company said it will buy the stock in open market
transactions for use in funding employee benefit plans or
other corporate purposes. The plan is in addition to
buy-backs announced in May 1989 and February 1990.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In over-the-counter trading Friday, Manufacturers National
closed at $39.75, up 50 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   Magazines
   Plan Jump
   In '91 Rates
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   WPPGY WLA
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Magazines are gearing up to ask advertisers for hefty 1991
rate increases -- yet they are doing so not only as ad
budgets remain anemic, but also as their circulations are
sliding at a surprising clip.
   Advertising and magazine industry executives say most
magazines will be asking for 4% to 8% ad rate increases for
next year when their new rate cards come out over the next
few months. At the same time, though, a number of major
magazines are losing circulation, new figures from the Audit
Bureau of Circulations show. The glaring disparity between
higher rates and fewer eyeballs has some advertisers seeing
red and insisting that magazines' rate cards are becoming
more meaningless than ever.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "You can ask for anything. It doesn't mean advertisers
will pay those kinds of rate increases," says Rich Hamilton,
a senior vice president at D'Arcy Masius Benton &amp; Bowles in
New York. "In the environment we work in now, so much of the
ad space that is sold is negotiated that a magazine's
published rate increase has relatively little meaning."
   Mr. Hamilton and other ad executives believe that for
plenty of magazines, the rate increases are little more than
bargaining chips. For some of the most competitive types of
magazines, such as women's service books, they predict, rate
cards may become obsolete over the next five years, just as
rate cards don't exist in the purely negotiated world of TV
advertising.
   "The advertising rate card in magazines eventually is
going to become an anachronism," contends Mr. Hamilton. "It
isn't there yet, but that's the way the business is moving."
   For their part, publishers insist the rate increases are
realistic, given big rises in postage and paper costs. What's
more, publishers have been so squeezed by advertisers over
the past few years that they desperately need the gains they
are asking for, contends David Orlow, a consultant with
Periodicals Studies Service in New York, who advises
publishers on rate increases.
   "They can't bend anymore or they'll break," he insists.
"Normal consumer magazines will {ask for} cost-of-living
adjustments of 4% to 7%, and I'll bet a nickel that between
3% and 6% of it sticks."
   Certainly, both advertisers and magazine publishers are
posturing at this point as they prepare to battle over rates.
But undoubtedly, magazines with slipping circulations are
going to find it rough sledding as they ask for big increases
in light of the recent declines. Their position is even
weaker given the generally abysmal advertising environment,
in which even healthy titles must woo advertisers with price
cuts and other concessions.
   For the first six months, according to Audit Bureau
figures, some of the country's biggest names have seen small
but uncomfortable slides. The circulation of the Washington
Post's Newsweek declined 1.9% and Time's was off 3.1%, for
example. Other Time publications also slid, notably People,
off 5.1% from the first six months of 1989, because of drops
in both newsstand and subscription sales. All three magazines
had sizable declines in ad pages, ranging from 7.5% to 9.7%,
for the period.
   The Time publications haven't decided on their 1991 rates,
says Donald Elliman, executive vice president of marketing at
Time Warner's Time magazine company. But he adds he doesn't
believe the magazines have any circulation problem, and says
the circulation declines were expected because People
increased its cover price and Time lowered its rate base. "We
set prices to reflect what we honestly believe are market
values," he says. "If we had a circulation problem, we would
have to set prices to reflect that, but I don't think we have
a circulation problem."
   Fashion magazines also fared poorly in the circulation
race. Glamour was off 4.8% and Vogue, down 3.3%, with the
same culprit in both cases: sliding newsstand sales that more
than offset increased subscriptions for the magazines owned
by Conde Nast, a unit of Advance Publications. And women's
service books, the most competitive of all magazine groups,
whose ad pages have been rupturing for the past few years,
must contend with small circulation losses, too. New York
Times' McCall's was down 2.7%, for example. Meredith's Better
Homes &amp; Gardens has already announced a 6.3% rate increase
beginning with its September issue, even though its
circulation was down 0.3% in the first half due to a 9.5%
slide in newsstand sales.
   Publishers generally shrug off the declines. They point
out, for example, that both Better Homes and McCall's still
exceed the circulation figures they guaranteed advertisers.
Since Better Homes doesn't get paid when it delivers that
extra circulation, says Jerry Kaplan, publisher, the drop
"demonstrates that our circulation department is doing a
superior job."
   But one problem the publishers can't dismiss so easily is
that the steepest declines are coming from deep cuts in
newsstand sales, rather than in subscriptions. Partly, that's
because titles are proliferating, leaving the same number of
buyers with more choices. Retailers are also pushing
magazines off newsstands to make room for more profitable
sundries like razor blades and candy. But the decline also
reflects the uncertain economy -- suggesting that if the
economy goes downhill as many expect, the magazine business
will be in that much worse shape.
   Already, magazines that rely heavily on newsstand sales,
such as the women's fashion books, have seen the most
consistent and steepest declines. The more dependent on
newsstand sales, the worse the books have fared: Bride's
magazine's total circulation fell 11.3%, despite a 22.3%
increase in its small subscription base, because of a 14.4%
plunge in newsstand sales. And Reed International's Modern
Bride saw total circulation fall 22.7% mostly because of a
24.1% decline in newsstand sales.
   "Money isn't as free as it has been. A woman or man going
to the newsstand is being very judicious because of the cost
factor. If they used to buy two or three magazines, they're
buying one," says Elliot Marion, publisher of Bride's
magazine, a Conde Nast book that had eight consecutive years
of newsstand growth before the latest figure. He adds,
though, that he is optimistic that 1991 will see a
circulation rebound.
   Others aren't quite so sure. They note that the Middle
East crisis and the economic uncertainty it is spawning make
for even more caution among magazine buyers -- a volatile
situation whose duration is tough to predict. While Better
Homes itself doesn't rely much on newsstand sales, its
publisher, Mr. Kaplan, says, "I think you really have to be
concerned if you're heavily newsstand-driven. The economy is
certainly unsettled . . . and it's going to continue to
affect newsstand sales."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: The National Basketball Association retained
Goodby, Berlin &amp; Silverstein, San Francisco, to create a
promotional campaign to be aired on NBC. The NBA's $600
million, four-year TV contract with NBC, announced late last
year, gives the basketball group commercial time during
nonsports programming -- mainly prime time. The value of the
air time is estimated at $10 million.
                                                                                                       

   E.P.T. COMMERCIAL: A new TV spot for Warner-Lambert's
e.p.t. pregnancy test depicts the speechless reactions of
fathers-to-be. The ad is part of a campaign created by WPP
Group's J. Walter Thompson, New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Executive Wins
   Round in Bid to Bar
   Release of Study
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   FEXC
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   First Executive Corp. won a victory for the moment in its
effort to keep secret the details of consulting work that the
Los Angeles insurance holding company has said affirms its
financial strength.
   The ruling by the New York State Supreme Court, Appellate
Division, bars the New York State Department of Insurance
from releasing certain actuarial reports until a full appeal
can be heard -- likely sometime in November -- said a lawyer
for Joseph Belth, the publisher of a newsletter and a
frequent critic of First Executive. Mr. Belth is seeking the
reports under New York state freedom of information law.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   First Executive has said that it will release the reports,
together with certain updated information, by the end of this
month. However, the company has at the same time opposed Mr.
Belth's efforts to gain access to copies of the reports that
are on file with New York insurance regulators. Friday's
court ruling makes it unclear whether First Executive will
hold to its timetable, announced in court earlier this month,
or whether it will continue to oppose public dissemination of
the reports.
   The company at first opposed all disclosure of the
reports. It later said it needed time to prepare what it has
called the updated information to accompany the documents,
which were prepared earlier this year by Milliman &amp;
Robertson, consulting actuaries, at the request of California
regulators but paid for by First Executive. The studies,
summaries of which have been made public, subject the
company's troubled insurance units to various hypothetical
adverse financial scenarios.
   First Executive has told a variety of audiences, ranging
from clients to a congressional committee that the reports
support its assertions of sufficient financial strength. A
company spokesman Friday failed to respond to a request for
comment on the New York court decision.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Tough Tests for Property Owners
   In Forfeitures Tied to Drug Cases
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   X LABOR HAN
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
SECURITIES (SCR)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal appeals court ruled that even innocent property
owners must meet stiff standards in challenging drug-law
forfeitures.
   The U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan said
the government can seize property on which drug transactions
occurred unless the owner "did all that reasonably could be
expected to prevent further illicit use of the premises."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although the law protects innocent property owners from
having their buildings seized, the appeals court said lack of
knowledge isn't enough to avoid forfeiture -- property owners
must also prove that they didn't consent to the drug
activity. To prove lack of consent, the owner must show that
strong steps were taken to deter the drug violations, the
court ruled.
   "Consent in this situation must be something more than a
state of mind," the appeals-court panel said. Affirming a
lower-court ruling, the appellate judges said, "Once an owner
has knowledge, he gives his consent to the narcotics activity
unless he then does all that reasonably could be expected to
prevent further illicit use of the premises."
   Federal appeals courts and district judges have been
divided on the innocent property-owner issue. In a similar
case earlier this month, a U.S. district judge in Manhattan
ordered the government to return the property after finding
that the law "doesn't require claimant to prove that he has
done all he could reasonably be expected to do to prevent"
the illegal activity.
   The federal appeals court in Manhattan, however, said the
seriousness of the drug problem must be considered in
deciding how the forfeiture law applies.
   "Congress intended forfeiture to be a powerful weapon in
the war on drugs. The illicit sale and use of drugs is taking
an ever increasing toll on our nation," the appeals court
said. "Given the present circumstances, defining `consent' .
. . as the failure to take all reasonable steps to prevent
illicit use of premises once one acquires knowledge of that
use is entirely appropriate."
   In the case before the appeals court, the owner of the
property, Manhattan-based West 141st St. Realty Corp., argued
that the company took adequate measures to stop drug activity
at the six-story Manhattan building by refusing to accept
rent from tenants who were arrested in a drug raid. The
company claimed that the trial judge erred by telling the
jury that the innocent-owner defense could prevail only if
Realty proved that it had taken every reasonable measure to
prevent the drug trafficking.
   Based on the trial judge's instructions, a federal jury
decided in favor of the government and approved the
forfeiture.
   Attorneys for the company couldn't be reached for comment.
   ---
   JUDGE RAISES THE STAKES in suit against USX and
steelworkers' union.
   U.S. District Judge Edwin L. Nelson in Alabama said an
employee suit over a concessionary labor contract can be
certified as a class action with regard to liability and
compensation. Thirty-eight current or former workers of a USX
Corp. plant near Birmingham allege that they lost income from
an allegedly illegal pact between USX and the union, the
United Steelworkers.
   If the Pittsburgh-based steel and energy concern and the
union lose the case, they would have to compensate about
4,000 workers.
   Prior to the judge's decision this week, J. Vernon Patrick
Jr., who is representing the plaintiffs, submitted documents
to the court alleging $144 million in damages. Mr. Patrick
said he will seek treble damages under the federal Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.
   "It's been a hard-fought battle, but it's only the battle
and not the war," he said.
   USX and union officials declined to comment.
   The suit, filed two years ago, alleges that a 1983 labor
contract covering steelworkers at USX's Fairfield, Ala.,
plant violated federal labor laws because two union
representatives, E.B. Rich and Thermon Phillips, received
special pension benefits from the company.
   Last month, a federal jury in Birmingham found USX and the
union officials guilty of violating federal labor laws in a
pension bribery scheme. USX and the union said they would
appeal the decision.
   The civil case, which had been suspended while the
criminal case was in progress, is due to go to trial in
September 1991.
   ---
   SECURITIES INDUSTRY SUES to halt Florida
broker-arbitration law.
   The Securities Industry Association and eight member
brokerage houses sued the Florida comptroller last Friday,
challenging the constitutionality of a recently enacted law
that allows investors the option of bringing their disputes
with brokers to arbitrators not affiliated with the
securities industry. Florida is the first state to enact a
law that requires brokers to allow their customers the
freedom to take their disputes to the American Arbitration
Association, an independent forum, or to arbitration panels
subsidized by the industry.
   AAA president Robert Coulson has hailed the Securities and
Investor Protection Act as a safeguard for small investors'
"right to select." But last Friday, William Fitzpatrick, the
SIA's general counsel, said a provision of the Florida law
unfairly singles out arbitration clauses in brokerage firm
contracts. Mr. Fitzpatrick cited a recent U.S. Supreme Court
decision that the Federal Arbitration Act prohibits states
from singling out arbitration agreements for tighter controls
than other business contracts. In that ruling, the high court
knocked down a Massachusetts regulation similar to Florida's
law.
   Mr. Fitzpatrick contends that if the Florida law stands,
each of the other 49 states might also impose their own
special conditions on arbitration agreements. "Soon we will
have 50 different versions of what an arbitration agreement
should look like and nobody would use arbitration," Mr.
Fitzpatrick said.
   A spokesman for the Florida comptroller said the office
had not received the suit and declined to comment. The bill
goes into effect Oct. 1.
   ---
   HOUSTON LAWYER gets jail term for anti-Semitic remarks
about judge.
   State District Judge Michael McSpadden sentenced attorney
Jack Love to six months in jail along with a $1,500 fine for
the derogatory comments, which were aimed at County
Court-at-Law Judge Sherman Ross.
   According to testimony, Mr. Love had become angry last
June 21 after Judge Ross adjourned a court session without
setting a trial date for one of Mr. Love's clients. Witnesses
testified Mr. Love denounced Judge Ross to several court
workers, referring to him as a "little Jew" and threatening
to burn a cross on his lawn.
   After learning of the remarks, Judge Ross scheduled a
hearing last month and held Mr. Love in contempt, sentencing
him to 90 days in jail and imposing a $500 fine. The action
was appealed to Judge McSpadden who last week upheld the
contempt finding and increased the penalties. Calling Mr.
Love's behavior "obscene" and "reprehensible," Judge
McSpadden said he would ask the State Bar of Texas to look
into the matter.
   Edward Wheeler, a Pasadena, Texas, attorney representing
Mr. Love, had argued that a contempt finding wasn't warranted
because the court wasn't in session when Mr. Love made his
remarks, and some were made outside of the courtroom. He also
contended that the remarks were protected by the First
Amendment.
   Mr. Wheeler called the punishment "harsh" and said he
would attempt to get the penalties overturned.
   ---
   ODOR ORDINANCE in Jacksonville is struck down by judge for
vagueness.
   The city of Jacksonville, Fla., lost a round in its
three-year battle against foul-smelling industries when Duval
Circuit Judge John Southwood declared that criminal
provisions of the city's ordinance aimed at stemming odors
are unconstitutional.
   The judge said the criminal portions of the ordinance,
which has been on the books for three years, failed to
provide an objective standard as to what constitutes a
criminal violation. Criminal penalties included a fine of up
to $500 a day and 90 days in prison for each violation.
   "What we're saying is there is not an ascertainable
standard of conduct to measure what is criminal behavior,"
said Edward Booth Sr., a Jacksonville attorney for SCM Glidco
Organics Corp., a chemical company that makes various
products from wood-pulp residue and pine tars, one of two
companies that challenged the criminal provisions of the odor
ordinance. "It was vague and ambiguous," he said. Mr. Booth
said SCM Glidco, a unit of London-based Hanson PLC, has made
every effort to eliminate offensive odors by installing the
best technology to cope with smell problems.
   Daniel D. Richardson, chief of the environmental law
division for the city, said Jacksonville, which has a large
wood-pulp and related chemical manufacturing industry, will
continue to battle foul smells with its civil penalties.
   It will also assess whether to appeal the ruling or to
fashion a new criminal ordinance.
   ---
   Arthur S. Hayes and Wayne E. Green contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Education Aid Foundation
   Says Chief Will Step Down
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   SLM WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<GV>
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (EDN)
</GV>
<LP>
   The chairman of the Higher Education Assistance Foundation
has agreed to resign as part of the federal government's
resolution of the troubled guarantee agency's financial woes,
a HEAF spokesman said.
   The spokesman for the private nonprofit corporation based
in Overland Park, Kan., said that Richard Hawk has accepted a
request from the U.S. Department of Education that he step
down.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Education Department has been working on a rescue plan
for HEAF, guarantor of $9.3 billion in student loans, since
announcing last month that HEAF was in serious financial
trouble.
   Although the government is reviewing several proposed
plans for other companies to acquire HEAF, it hasn't yet
decided which plan to accept.
   David Westbrook, the HEAF spokesman, said that HEAF has
been reassured by the government that any resolution will not
lead to significant layoffs of HEAF's 800 employees. "Mr.
Hawk's position is that if the (Education Department) needs
someone to be accountable for this problem he's willing to be
that person," Mr. Westbrook said.
   Student Loan Marketing Association, a publicly owned
company, and United Student Aid Funds, a nonprofit loan
guarantor, have each submitted merger rescue plans to the
government as proposed solutions to HEAF's problem.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   May Department Stores Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   MA
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS, Mo. -- May Department Stores Co. said its board
authorized the repurchase of up to $250 million of May common
stock.
   In composite New York Stock Exchange trading Friday, May
shares closed at $46.625, down 25 cents. At that price, full
exercise of the repurchase authorization would represent the
purchase of about 5.36 million common shares, or about 4% of
May's common and common equivalent shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Perez Hints Venezuela,
   Others Will Lift Oil Output
   ----
   By Jose de Cordoba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CARACAS, Venezuela -- President Carlos Andres Perez
strongly suggested that Venezuela and other OPEC countries
will soon increase production to make up for embargoed Iraqi
and Kuwaiti oil.
   "OPEC has the obligation to maintain production at the
22.5 million barrels a day level agreed to at the last OPEC
conference," said Mr. Perez during an interview at his ornate
office in the presidential palace here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Mr. Perez said Venezuela, like Saudi Arabia, wanted if
possible to reach agreement with the other members of OPEC,
or the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, to
"provisionally" increase their production quotas. The higher
production would make up a large part of the roughly four
million barrels a day of Kuwaiti and Iraqi oil removed from
the world market by United Nations sanctions following Iraq's
invasion of Kuwait.
   Under such an OPEC agreement, Venezuela could increase its
production by up to 500,000 barrels a day from its current
OPEC quota of 1.95 million barrels a day. "OPEC must maintain
its cohesion," said Mr. Perez.
   Mr. Perez said a steep price rise resulting from a failure
to replace the lost production would be "disastrous" for the
world economy, and especially for the economies of developing
countries.
   Venezuela, along with Saudi Arabia, has issued a call for
an OPEC meeting to consider a production increase. But as
energy minister Celestino Armas flew to Geneva Saturday to
meet with his Saudi counterpart, only Ecuador and the United
Arab Emirates had agreed to attend the meeting.
   Venezuelan officials said the proposed meeting would be
unlikely to produce an agreement on quotas, since several
member countries are afraid of crossing Iraq. If the meeting
fails, then OPEC members who are in a position to increase
their production -- Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, Nigeria and the
United Arab Emirates -- would probably agree among themselves
to temporarily apportion the four million barrels a day
oil-production shortfall until the crisis is over.
   The officials, who are anxious to preserve OPEC, said it
would be possible to reassign the shortfall under an OPEC
regulation that permits re-allotment of quotas that are not
being used by member nations. At any rate, the issue should
be settled this week, the officials said.
   Mr. Perez, who has been accused at home and in the U.S. of
waffling on the issue of raising Venezuelan production,
denied that he has been pressured by the U.S. to do so. "The
U.S. attitude towards Venezuela's position has been one of
frank gratitude," Mr. Perez said.
   During the interview, Mr. Perez repeatedly emphasized what
he called OPEC's "compromise" to produce 22.5 million barrels
a day of oil for the world market, and the calamitous
consequences for developing nations in particular of another
oil shock. Mr. Perez said that Venezuela had "unbreakable
obligations" to supply the U.S. and Latin America. "Brazil
used to get 200,000 barrels a day from Iraq," he said. "They
are living from day to day. Venezuela will have to help."
   Mr. Armas, the energy minister, said that while high oil
inventories had so far helped cushion the crisis for
industrial countries like Japan, countries like Argentina and
Brazil, with small or nonexisting inventories, were fast
approaching a "critical situation."
   Mr. Armas said that most of the projected increase in
Venezuelan production would be heavier crudes. That could
cause some marketing and refining headaches: In most
instances, the refining of heavy crudes provides a higher
percentage of fuel oil, for which Venezuela would have to
find new markets, said a former senior official of Petroleos
de Venezuela, the state oil company.
   Mr. Armas said that at the beginning of the Gulf crisis,
Venezuela had briefly raised production over its OPEC quota
"out of nervousness." But he said the increase sent the wrong
signal to the market and the country was now keeping within
its quota.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   The War Between the Sexes
   ----
   By Robert Goldberg
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<LP>
   For some, the war between the sexes is a brief exchange of
sniper fire. For others, it's more like Vietnam -- a long,
messy conflict, with tripwires all around.
   This week, HBO presents three tales of romance. Titled
"Women and Men: Stories of Seduction" (HBO, Aug. 21 at 12:30
p.m. and Aug. 29 at 9 p.m.; check listings for other
airdates), this 90-minute production is a trilogy of
short-story adaptations from the 1920s and 1930s, an era when
the war between the sexes was the only war going. From brief
passion to bittersweet love, "Women and Men" is drawn on
tales by Dorothy Parker, Mary McCarthy and Ernest Hemingway.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Short-story adaptations of great American writers might
have that artsy PBS stigma for some viewers, but producer
David Brown ("The Sting," "The Verdict," "Driving Miss
Daisy") has put together a big box-office team packed with
more Oscar nominees than Swifty Lazar's waiting room: James
Woods, Melanie Griffith, Elizabeth McGovern and Beau Bridges,
directed by Ken Russell and Tony Richardson, in adaptations
by the likes of Joan Didion and John Gregory Dunne. There's
even music by Marvin Hamlisch.
   The trilogy opens with "The Man in the Brooks Brothers
Shirt" (adapted and directed by Frederic Raphael), the story
of an encounter on a train.
   Vicki (Ms. McGovern) is an acerbic leftist journalist,
headed west to tell her father about her upcoming marriage.
Jerry (Beau Bridges) is a somewhat boorish, somewhat wealthy
steel salesman. They have less than nothing in common, except
seats in the same car. But somehow, they end up in a sweaty
one-night stand.
   What makes this adaptation of Mary McCarthy's story so
much fun is the wittiness of the repartee: "For 10 years I've
been feeling like I missed the boat"; "Boats get a long way
in 10 years."
   All along, the tale is moved forward by Vicki's sardonic
voiceover, which is a nice touch. She's bitingly ironic about
Jerry the businessman, yet she finds herself going along with
the seduction, right up to the "Fascist invasion." And
afterward, as Jerry smiles and prattles on about his first
love, Kiki, Vicki fumes about his crowing: "He really thinks
he's won. So he invites Kiki to the victory parade."
   But some of these lines don't work as dialogue. Some trip
up the story's flow with their own wordiness. (As, for
example, when Vicki wakes up with a hangover and spouts in
one breath: "Just what I've always wanted -- a capitalist
S.O.B. who knows how to tip sleeping-car attendants, a man
with no shame no accent no beard and personalized shirts made
by the dozen, a gentleman called Jerry.") And there's a
precious, dated quality to "The Man" that's emotionally
offputting.
   Of course, all three of these tales are period pieces. Ken
Russell's "Dusk Before Fireworks" (adapted by Valerie Curtin
from a Dorothy Parker story) is the most heavily tinged by
its era. Set in the jazz age -- "that era of wonderful
nonsense" -- "Dusk" is a stylized tango of a film. A Don Juan
named Hobie is chased by a possessive conquest, Kit. The
narrator sets the stage: "He was a charmer with a voice as
intimate as the rustle of sheets." "She was one of those
anxious women caught in his web."
   As Hobie, Peter Weller is all slicked-back hair and silk
smoking jacket, but he comes off as strangely stiff and even
slightly menacing. Molly Ringwald sounds -- as she always
does -- like a whiny Long Island brat who needs a good smack.
There's a story here, but between this director and these
actors, it gets lost in the discordant tone.
   Actually, as portraits of relationships, both "The Man"
and "Dusk" are surprisingly lacking in intimacy. But if these
two are emotionally distancing, the third and best film is
stunningly immediate.
   The Hemingway tale, "Hills Like White Elephants" (adapted
by Ms. Didion and Mr. Dunne and directed by Mr. Richardson),
stars James Woods as Robert, an expatriate American writer,
and Melanie Griffith as Hadley, his rich and newly pregnant
American girlfriend.
   Waiting for the train in a small town in Spain, Robert and
Hadley try to come to some decision on what they should do
about Hadley's pregnancy, and what affect it will have on
their relationship.
   Seated at a terminus, they look at the track stretching in
both directions, back into their loving past and out into
their shaky future together. As befits a good Hemingway
story, the dialogue here is clean and uncluttered, and the
performances simple, spare and direct. This is one sweet, sad
film, as heartbreaking as the open road.
   All three of these stories start from the same basic
premise -- one encounter between a woman and a man. All three
mix in the kind of talent rarely seen on TV, talent that is a
joy to watch.
   In the end, however, only one of the three comes off as an
unqualified success. But I prefer to think that "Women and
Men," like a relationship, is about potential -- in this
case, the potential of what television, with a little love
and a little intelligence, could be.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- BellSouth Corp.:
   Cellular Telephone System
   Is Planned for New Zealand
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4C
</SO>
<CO>
   BLS FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   BellSouth Corp., Atlanta, said it plans to develop a
digital cellular mobile telephone system in New Zealand by
mid-1992.
   The system will use the group speciale mobile, or GSM,
standard being introduced throughout Europe, the company said
in Wellington. BellSouth has management rights to a radio
frequency band in New Zealand.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Terry Winters, managing director of BellSouth New Zealand
Ltd., said a GSM network "will allow us to offer our
customers cellular telephone services in the short term and
various types of personal communications services by the turn
of the century."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Machine Orders
   Slowed to 4.8% Rise
   In June, Agency Says
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3A
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Annual growth in orders from Japan's machinery
industry slowed to 4.8% in June, the Economic Planning Agency
said.
   While still healthy, growth was down from double-digit
rates seen in four of the previous five months. Machinery
orders increased 13% in May.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite weakness in the private sector, an official said
the agency expects growth to accelerate. Private-sector
orders should rebound as business investment is strong, she
said.
   The agency said orders to machinery makers totaled 1.933
trillion yen ($13.12 billion) in June. On a seasonally
adjusted basis, orders totaled 1.859 trillion yen, down 1.4%
from May.
   Private capital investment in such big-ticket items as
machinery is one of two primary factors in Japan's current
economic boom. Together with high personal consumption,
capital investment has kept the nation's economy growing for
44 consecutive months, the second-longest expansion since the
World War II.
   Orders from the private sector fell to 1.09 trillion yen,
down 13% from year-earlier levels. On a seasonally adjusted
basis, orders totaled 967.88 billion yen, down 14%. June was
the second consecutive month in which private-sector orders
fell; in May, private-sector orders dropped 5.5%.
   The official pointed to strong growth in private-sector
orders in April and preceding months as evidence orders will
rebound.
   Within the private sector, orders from shipbuilders
increased 29% in June, while orders from the
commercial-fishing industry rose 11%.
   Orders from the paper industry, meanwhile, plunged 55% and
orders from steel makers fell 28% in June.
   Public-sector machinery orders increased 4.2% in June to
153.97 billion yen. On a seasonally adjusted basis,
public-sector orders fell 1.6% to 217.15 billion yen.
   Overseas orders rose 71% to 545.98 billion yen. On a
seasonally adjusted basis, they rose 18% to 536.25 billion
yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Weaker Dollar
   Is Helping Some
   U.S. Companies
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman and Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   GE GLW IBM DOW IFF GS FLR PSI VSH AEX JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The slumping dollar is boosting the case for
stocks of U.S. companies that do a lot of business overseas.
   When Iraq invaded Kuwait, investors fled to the dollar as
a safe haven, causing the U.S. currency to soar briefly. But
now the dollar is declining again, bolstering the
foreign-exposure theory that began gaining favor on Wall
Street earlier this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That theory has two pillars. Foreign economies are growing
more quickly than that of the U.S., which limps along at a
1.2% annual pace. And the dollar's weakness is beneficial
because it gives U.S. exporters a price advantage against
foreign competition, while also making foreign profits fatter
when translated into dollars. All of which is good for the
stocks of companies with major foreign involvement, be they
U.S.-based exporters or multinationals with subsidiaries
abroad.
   The dollar has retreated so fast that last week it tumbled
to three successive postwar lows against the German mark.
Since the invasion-inspired peak, the U.S. currency is down
about 4.5% against the mark and British pound and nearly 3%
against the Japanese yen.
   Sure, analysts say, higher oil prices could slow the
economies of Japan, West Germany and various European
countries. But those countries are starting off with much
faster growth than the U.S. And the damage from an oil price
rise to Japan and Europe, which are more dependent on foreign
oil than the U.S., may not be as great as some fear. "Japan
has become extremely oil-efficient," says William P.
Sterling, international economist for Merrill Lynch.
   He thinks rising oil prices may force Germany and Japan to
raise interest rates to keep inflation from getting out of
hand. As the U.S. economy is in a fragile state, the Federal
Reserve Board is unlikely to foster similar interest-rate
increases here. As a result, Mr. Sterling figures, the dollar
could easily fall in coming months, for higher interest rates
abroad tend to reduce the dollar's allure to international
investors and speculators.
   And so money managers may well continue to snap up shares
of companies such as General Electric, Corning Glass and
International Business Machines, which get a large percentage
of their sales and earnings abroad.
   For American companies, "the growth is perceived to be
overseas," says Jeff Landle, a portfolio manager at
Stovall/Twenty-First Advisers in New York. "The U.S. economy
is certainly not in the near future expected to exhibit any
great growth spurt. So the idea of companies with large
foreign exposure makes a lot of sense."
   Three that Mr. Landle likes are GE, IBM and Dow Chemical.
Besides being big exporters, he says, all three have
production and distribution facilities in place in many
countries. That advantage is important, he says, because
trade barriers are falling fast within regions (such as
Europe or North America) but not between regions.
   Jack Orben, chairman of Associated Family Services, a New
York money management firm, praises International Flavors &amp;
Fragrances and Gillette for management savvy in understanding
foreign markets. "They are tuned in to the changing political
situation in various countries," he says.
   "The U.S. is a shrinking portion of demand in many
industries," says Remy Fisher, a vice president of J.&amp; W.
Seligman &amp; Co. in New York. Foreign exposure is one attribute
she typically looks for in a stock. Among her favorites are
GE and Corning Glass, each of which derives at least 40% of
sales and earnings abroad. GE, she says, historically has
been good at channeling capital spending to where the growth
is going to be, a couple of years in advance. Recently, she
says, GE has been pushing capital spending in Europe.
   Fluor, an engineering and construction company, has heavy
orders from Germany, France and Hungary, Ms. Fisher says.
About 40% of the firm's backlog now comes from abroad,
compared with 20% only a year ago.
   Gerald Perritt, a Chicago money manager who usually
emphasizes smaller companies, says that having operations
abroad is often a sign of foresight and sophistication on the
part of a small, growing business. Three stocks of small
companies active in Europe that he owns are Porta Systems,
which makes electrical surge-protection equipment for
telecommunications systems; Vishay Intertechnology, an
electronics concern that recently expanded into England
through an acquisition, and Air Express International, a
freight forwarding firm.
   The dollar is giving such companies a hand in their
foreign operations. Since year end, the dollar has fallen 16%
against the pound and more than 8% against the mark. The U.S.
currency could decline by an additional 5% to 10%, says
Nicholas P. Sargen, an international economist at Salomon
Brothers. But he warns that investors shouldn't expect it to
fall out of bed.
   Of course, some people are skeptical of the thesis that
foreign exposure is a basis on which to pick stocks.
   "It sounds like a lot of baloney to me," says Don
Mitchell, chairman of Mitchell &amp; Co., a Weston, Mass.,
consulting firm. Foreign economies have been growing faster
than the U.S.'s "for a long time now," he says, so this
particular theme may be played out. "To the extent there's
anything new, it's the dying-dollar story," Mr. Mitchell
says. But, "There are two things that nobody predicts worth a
darn. One is interest rates and the other is currency."
   Besides, Mr. Mitchell asks, "If it's so wonderful to be
abroad, why buy U.S. stocks? Why not just buy foreign
stocks?" Proponents of U.S. exporters and multinationals
reply that these stocks are relatively easy to research, and
would benefit further if the dollar continues to fall. Also,
rising interest rates in countries such as Germany or Japan
could pull those countries' entire stock markets lower.
   James H. Morgan, president of Morgan Investments in
Greenville, S.C., says foreign exposure shouldn't be the main
factor in stock selection. "If the dollar weakens enough to
help on {the trade} front, it would create other problems"
such as higher U.S. interest rates, he says. More important,
he says, is a company's ability to withstand an economic
slowdown.
   Randall Eley, president of Edgar Lomax Co. in Alexandria,
Va., expects a "world-wide slowdown" in economic activity. So
he's looking for companies with "low P/Es {ratios of stock
prices to annual per-share earnings}, great financial
strength, very little debt." Still, he is hoping a falling
dollar will give a boost to his firm's holding in Dow
Chemical, which has been a laggard.
   There's one very big risk in the foreign exposure thesis.
If Mideast saber-rattling evolves into a full-fledged war and
major oil facilities are blown up, all bets are off. Europe
and Japan can cope with higher oil prices but their economies
could grind to a halt if acute shortages develop. And in a
hot war the dollar could skyrocket.
   ---
                     Big Foreign Exposure
                                                                                                       

   Here are some of the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 companies
having the largest foreign exposure.
                                                                                                       

                                            FOREIGN SALES
 COMPANY                                AS OF % OF TOTAL*
                                                                                                       

 Datapoint                                      86%
                                                                                                       

 NL Industries                                  80
                                                                                                       

 Pan Am                                         76
                                                                                                       

 Exxon                                          75
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

 International Flavors &amp; Fragrances             68
                                                                                                       

 Raychem                                        63
                                                                                                       

 American Brands                                62
                                                                                                       

 Perkin-Elmer                                   61
                                                                                                       

 Gillette                                       61
                                                                                                       

   *Percentage of 1989 sales that come either from exports of
from direct sales abroad.
                                                                                                       

   Source: Merrill Lynch Quantitative Analysis
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sverdrup Gets Air Force Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GE
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Sverdrup Corp. received a $24 million Air
Force contract for electronic-warfare simulator studies and
analysis.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Associated Aerospace Activity Inc. got a $12.2 million Air
Force contract for thermal barriers for jet engines used in
F-15 and F-16 fighter aircraft.
                                                                                                       

   General Electric Co. was awarded Air Force contracts
totaling $14.95 million for radar communications and support
services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   BUSINESSLAND Inc. said it closed about 19 outlets in
January. The number was misstated in the Aug. 7 edition.
   (See: "Technology: Businessland Posts Fourth-Quarter Loss
Of $21.5 Million; Stock Plummets 58%" -- WSJ Aug. 7, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Air Zimbabwe Finds
   Cracks in Boeing 707s
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3A
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC BA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   HARARE, Zimbabwe -- The state airline withdrew three
Boeing Co. 707 airliners from service after cracks were found
in the wing spars, officials said.
   The planes are expected to be grounded for several weeks
for repairs and tests, a spokesman for Air Zimbabwe said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A fourth Boeing 707 was given a clean bill of health and
is flying normal routes, he said.
   The spokesman said the four planes were checked after
Boeing, Seattle, warned operators of possible wing cracks,
particularly in ageing 707s.
   The state airline acquired its 707s second-hand a decade
ago.
   Air Zimbabwe also operates two Boeing 737s and one
recently acquired extendedrange 767.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Moscow, Bonn Find Strengthened Ties
   Help Satisfy Their Individual Interests
   ----
   By Frederick Kempe
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BONN -- Chancellor Helmut Kohl knew he had overcome the
last obstacles to German unity when Mikhail Gorbachev invited
him to the Soviet leader's birthplace in the Caucasus to talk
things over in July, something Mr. Gorbachev hadn't done with
any other foreign leader.
   "You don't invite someone to your home in order to fight
with you," he told an aide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When Mr. Gorbachev and Mr. Kohl set down their helicopter
in a wheat field en route to their critical talks, local
peasants offered them a large wheel of bread with a porcelain
dish of salt baked into the middle. Following local
tradition, Mr. Gorbachev put his lips to the bowl as if to
kiss the bread, and he took a taste. Not to be outdone, Mr.
Kohl sprinkled some of the salt across the bread in the shape
of a crucifix. "This is how we do it where I'm from," he
said.
   Increasingly, those affectionate July meetings look like a
sign of things to come. West German Foreign Minister Hans
Dietrich Genscher and his Soviet counterpart, Eduard
Shevardnadze, reached agreement in Moscow on Friday to allow
the four World War II Allied powers and the two Germanys to
sign an agreement on Sept. 12 on German unification. It was
their 11th meeting this year.
   And the Soviet Union and West Germany were seeking
additional cooperation in Moscow last week. The Germans
wanted to further accelerate the unification, and Moscow, in
return, wanted a detailed bilateral agreement committing a
single Germany to economic, industrial, scientific and
technological cooperation.
   For his part, Mr. Genscher wanted the Soviet Union to
agree to a suspension of allied rights over Germany as soon
as the agreement was signed, rather than waiting for the four
countries to ratify the agreement. Mr. Genscher's effort
underlined Bonn's continued concern that unification be made
irreversible as soon as possible.
   West Germany and Moscow also have begun working out the
complex details of sensitive agreements regarding the
withdrawal of 363,000 Soviet soldiers in East Germany. And
West Germany has agreed to work out arrangements so that the
Soviets don't suffer economically due to monetary union with
East Germany, which was Moscow's largest import source.
   West Germany has already advanced the Soviets five billion
marks ($3.22 billion) in untied loans, it has given it 220
million marks in food aid and agreed to pay 1.25 billion
marks toward the cost of stationing Soviet troops in East
Germany. What's more, Bonn's effort to increase its imports
from Moscow have resulted in a 6% boost in foreign exchange
earnings for the Soviets in the first six months. Meanwhile,
West German exports to the Soviet Union grew by less than 1%.
   But the direct line to cash is only part of the story.
Moscow increasingly regards Bonn as its lifeline to Western
economic assistance, international economic organizations
and, in short, to the modern world. It has been reassured of
Mr. Kohl's good intentions by Bonn's willingness to act as
its unofficial emissary to NATO and at the Houston economic
summit.
   "The Soviet Union sees a unified Germany as its central
trading partner, as its bridge to Western economic and
financial institutions," says Horst Teltschik, Mr. Kohl's
national security adviser. What's more, Soviet officials have
told their West German counterparts that they pray for their
success in privatizing East Germany because it could serve as
a model for their own efforts and as a weapon against
internal political opponents.
   Ironically, it is the same two superpowers that helped
divide and then competed over the fate of divided Germany
that now are helping the country emerge united and robust so
as to satisfy their individual interests. "There will be a
new sort of axis -- although that may sound like a bad word
-- of the Germans, the Soviets and the U.S.," says Karsten
Voigt, a Social Democratic member of West Germany's
parliament. "The long fear that the Soviets could play a
German card is gone. The card is lost when unification is
completed. Now the Soviets want to use us as a card to grow
closer to the West, to the U.S."
   The source of the new amity is most likely Realpolitik.
Chancellor Kohl's successful policy of remaining close to
Washington and NATO accomplished two essential goals: It
positions Germany as an attractive and essential partner for
Moscow that can coax the rest of the West. And it frees Bonn
from the accusation that its tie to the East is an ominous
continuation of historical German policies that led to the
Hitler-Stalin agreement and set the stage for World War II.
   Many Europeans are understandably fearful when Germany and
Russia warm to each other. But experts believe there is far
less cause for concern this time around. That's because the
rest of Europe was better prepared for Bonn's unilateral
improvement of its relations with Moscow. And Moscow is using
its link to Bonn to avoid being isolated from the other
Western allies.
   "There's nothing detrimental to U.S. interests," says
Robert Hormats, a former American official now at Goldman
Sachs in New York. "It is uncomfortable for Washington
because we are accustomed to being the primary interlocutor
for Moscow and Bonn both. . . . But the new order in Europe
is that Germany is the new major economic and political
player. Germany and Moscow are increasingly working out
bilateral arrangements in their interests without consulting
the U.S."
   "Gorbachev is trying to influence the alliance through
Kohl," adds Uwe Nehrlich, a security expert at the Institute
for Policy Studies near Munich. "Kohl's power is derivative.
If he had allowed his ties to the U.S. and the alliance to
loosen, his leverage with Gorbachev would be less."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Korea Rejects Bid
   By Samsung to Make
   Commercial Vehicles
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4B
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST C.SSG J.NDM
</CO>
<IN>
TRUCKING (TRK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL -- The South Korean government rejected the Samsung
Group's application to make commercial vehicles here, fearing
a possible oversupply that would weaken the country's auto
industry.
   The Ministry of Trade and Industry said that Samsung's
plan to import technology to make large-sized special
vehicles from Nissan Diesel Motor Co. of Japan would
undermine South Korea's auto industry, which has suffered
from sharp wage increases and shrinking exports in recent
years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ministry, however, promised to re-evaluate the
application by the South Korean business group after October
1991.
   The case has been a hot issue locally because the
ministry's decision amounts to a test of a new government
policy to allow more competition among industries. In 1989,
the government abolished an industry protection law, but
retained the power to restrict imports of technology, such as
that proposed by Samsung.
   Ministry officials added that the current shortage of
large-sized commercial vehicles, such as dump trucks, will be
resolved by next year when the present construction boom
subsides.
   Samsung had sought government permission to make
commercial vehicles in Korea, citing an excessive demand of
those vehicles relative to supply.
   Currently, four companies in Korea make similar vehicles,
but their output meets only about 70% of demand, estimated at
20,000 trucks and 10,000 buses annually.
   Existing local auto makers have strongly opposed Samsung's
plan to assemble vehicles, fearing oversupply. The local auto
makers also presume that Samsung's eventual plan is to enter
the passenger car business, despite the group's repeated
denial of that intention.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   U.N. Pension Chief Henchoz to Depart
   For Private Posts in Native Switzerland
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FORGN LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Pierre Henchoz is going home.
   After four years as the chief investment officer of the $9
billion United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund, Mr. Henchoz
resigned, effective Aug. 31, and will return to his native
Lausanne, Switzerland, to be chief executive officer and
principal of Hentsch, Chollet &amp; Cie., an old-line private
bank founded in 1882 by Lausanne's wealthy families. He also
will be an adviser to and a director of Eurovaleur Inc., a
new money management firm specializing in publicly traded
European stocks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.N. is expected to name a successor at the end of
this month.
   The 49-year-old veteran global money manager, who keeps a
small sketch of ancient Lausanne on the wall of his cramped,
functional office on the seventh floor of the U.N.
headquarters here, said that he always intended to return to
Switzerland and that he accepted an irresistible offer.
   Mr. Henchoz said he was drawn by "having to offer superior
services, being competitive and being ready to be compared
with all other international fund managers." For decades,
Swiss banks didn't have to compete aggressively for global
investment capital, which flowed in because of Switzerland's
secure neutral political position, secrecy laws and strong
currency. In today's sophisticated cross-border arena,
"Switzerland has to defend against this new challenge," Mr.
Henchoz said. "It's when you get competition that you have to
prove you are good."
   For the five years through March 31 -- the U.N.'s fiscal
year-end -- the U.N. pension fund had a total annual return
of 16.54% in U.S. dollar terms. A modest, unpretentious man,
Mr. Henchoz credited his predecessor for part of that
performance.
   The fund, with investments in 25 currencies in about 20
countries, is invested 42% in stocks, 40% in bonds, 12% in
real estate investment funds and 6% in cash. About half these
assets are invested outside the U.S., protecting the fund
somewhat against the dollar's recent decline.
   Mr. Henchoz also acknowledged luck's role. Days before he
applied for the U.N. job in 1986, Swiss citizens voted
against joining the organization. He said, "I always remember
saying to myself: `You will never get the job.'" He beat out
81 other applicants.
   He said his biggest achievement "was not to have lost my
nerves and lucidity on Oct. 20, 1987," the day after the
global stock market crash. "I realized that day the whole
dimension of my job, because I was between the trustee, who
is the secretary-general of the U.N., and the whole world's
financial markets." Mr. Henchoz bet on falling interest rates
and a weak dollar. He quickly began buying stocks and bonds,
and selling dollars for currencies such as the West German
mark and Japanese yen. The strategy paid off: In 1987, the
fund posted a 10.7% return.
   Now Mr. Henchoz is worried. Because of Iraq's invasion of
Kuwait and the world's sharp response, he said, "The whole
{investment} community is almost paralyzed, not knowing what
is going to happen." Thus, he adopted a relatively passive
strategy of lowering the prices at which the fund will buy
certain shares, of bargain-hunting, and of letting cash
accumulate to be able to pounce at the right moment. Still,
Mr. Henchoz said: "For the first time since I arrived at the
U.N., I am a passive person. Maybe it's the right strategy; I
don't know. It's a gamble."
   Through his staff of 18 people from a dozen countries who
speak at least 10 languages and the fund's investment
committee, Mr. Henchoz has always been able to turn to
somebody who understood well a particular political
situation. But now he concedes: "I have no Iraqis."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bank of Boston Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BKB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BANK OF BOSTON Corp. (Boston) -- T. Lincoln Morison Jr.,
50 years old, an executive vice president and group executive
of this bank holding company's national banking group,
resigned, effective Aug. 31, for personal reasons. A
successor wasn't named.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   As Backup Power
   Fails, New York Fed
   Shifts Its System
   ---
   Move to Upstate Facility
   Averts Chaos; Con Edison
   Gave Fish Mart Priority
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit and Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal End of
Headline
</HL>
<DATE>
08/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI JPM IBM ED
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Federal Reserve Bank of New York avoided having to
shut down the heart of the U.S. banking system when it
successfully switched its electronics-payments system to an
alternate computer center in Pearl River, N.Y. yesterday.
   The move still caused some slowdown in bank transactions
and government securities trading in New York and some other
parts of the nation. And one official was aghast to learn
that a large fish market in the city was given priority over
the central bank in restoration of service by the utility.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Fed said that it would continue to use its Pearl River
facilities today and hoped to have its payments systems
functioning back in New York City on Monday. Meanwhile, some
big New York banks were still scrambling to cope with the
major power blackout that hit lower New York on Monday.
   The Fed's move came after two of three backup emergency
generators at its lower Manhattan headquarters failed just
before daybreak. That meant that Fedwire -- the Federal
Reserve's electronic-payments systems that is the effective
lifeline of the U.S. financial system -- couldn't operate.
   Fedwire, the Federal Reserve's funds and securities
transfer service connects Federal Reserve banks and branches,
U.S. government agencies -- including the Treasury Department
-- and about 8,000 depository institutions. It is the main
electronic-payments system in the U.S. On average, $900
billion clears through Fedwire at the New York Fed daily.
Yesterday, all transactions were settled successfully.
   Normally, Fedwire is scheduled to begin operating at 8:30
a.m. But the move to Pearl River meant that the securities
portion of the system didn't kick in until 11 a.m, followed
by the funds-transfer network 15 minutes later.
   While test runs have been carried out at the Pearl River
facility, the Fed has never had to use the Rockland County
center in a real emergency.
   E. Gerald Corrigan, president of the New York Fed, said at
a news conference that if the backup facility hadn't worked,
the Fed might have had to declare a bank holiday as an
"extreme absolute last resort." Such a move could have meant
that the New York banks and their major customers wouldn't
have been able to make or receive payments from other banks
or their customers.
   In addition, the U.S. government securities market would
effectively have been shut down because of the central role
New York financial institutions play in that market.
Moreover, New York banks play a key role in the movement of
funds around the world. That's because of the dollar's
central position as the world's major reserve and transaction
currency.
   Bankers said that the switch to the Pearl River computer
center was delayed by the need to re-establish links between
that facility and all the banks that are linked to the Fed's
systems. These involve the use of passwords and encoded
instructions used to protect confidentiality and security.
   "The world's payment mechanism and the world's financial
institutions are so interlocked so that you can't skip a
day," said John F. Lee, president of the New York Clearing
House Association that runs the CHIPS, or Clearing House
Interbank Payments System.
   CHIPS is a computerized network, owned by 11 New York
banks, that is used for transferring international dollar
payments. On a normal day, just under $1 trillion is cleared
through the system.
   James P. Robinson, an executive vice president at Los
Angeles-based Security Pacific Corp., called the problems at
the New York Fed "a substantial inconvenience" but said the
bank had been able to get all its transactions cleared and
hasn't slowed its transaction flow. However, "the process is
painfully slow," he said.
   At the same time, officials at several Midwest banks --
First Chicago Corp., Norwest Corp. in Minneapolis and Hawkeye
Bancorp in Des Moines, Iowa -- reported no major
difficulties.
   Mr. Corrigan of the New York Fed said that banks were told
of the system's problems and were asked "not to bunch up"
their transactions in the late afternoon when traffic can be
very heavy.
   Contingency planning for the payments system has been a
priority of Mr. Corrigan's since he became president of the
New York Fed in January 1985. The Pearl River facility was
established in 1987. One senior banker said that before that,
"a sequence of events like {Thursday's} would have closed
down the New York component of Fedwire," which accounts for
90% of the system.
   Mr. Lee of the Clearing House said: "The work they {the
Fed} put into Blue Hill {the name of the Pearl River
facility} paid off" yesterday.
   Mr. Lee called Consolidated Edison Co. of New York, which
supplies electrical power to New York City, "the villain in
this whole thing." Complaining that the utility was able to
restore power to New York City's main fish market before it
could the central bank, he added: "What the hell is the
Fulton Fish Market compared to the Fed? The New York Fed
handles the vital core of the financial community
world-wide."
   Dan Walden, director of public information at Con Edison,
said that the utility was aware that the Fed had working
backup power systems in place before the blackout occurred on
Monday. And because Con Edison was forced to allocate the
limited standby generating capacity it had, he said: "We
focused on installations that were obvious," such as Beekman
Hospital and a large housing complex with many elderly
residents. At the time, he said: "The Fed's {systems} were
working fine."
   Fulton Fish Market, Mr. Walden said, "has an obvious
economic importance to New York."
   The Fed wasn't the only institution in New York having
power problems. Because of generator failures at Citcorp and
a few other banks on Wednesday night, the CHIPS system
settled at 10:30 p.m., four and a half hours late. That, in
turn, caused Fedwire to close at 11:45 p.m., instead of 7
p.m. or 8 p.m.
   Last night, J.P. Morgan &amp; Co.'s emergency power supplies
failed at 5 p.m. Coming after most financial markets had
closed, the blackout didn't create as big a problem as it
might have an hour earlier.
   Someone familiar with the situation said that Morgan's
computers failed with only a "couple of million in receipts
{left to go through Fedwire} and they handled that manually."
He said that today the bank planned to use its backup
facilities in Delaware.
   Mary Cirillo, head of cash management for Citibank, said
some corporate customers have begun having their accounts
processed through Citicorp's Wilmington, Del., facilities or
through other banks that aren't being affected by the power
outage.
   She said delays in processing accounts Wednesday were
mostly the result of efforts to implement Citicorp's
contingency plans. "It caused some minor delays and in some
cases major delays, but the work got out and that's the most
important thing," she said.
   She said that Citicorp established its links with the
Fed's Pearl River facility early yesterday and didn't expect
any delays in processing as a result of the Fed's move. She
said that since Monday's outage, Citicorp has been processing
through both the New York Fed and the Philadelphia Fed.
   International Business Machines Co. said it has seen a
steady flow of clients based in lower Manhattan moving
through its Business Recovery unit in Franklin Lakes, N.J.
John Nevola, head of the unit, said a commodities-trading
firm, a bank and an insurance company took personnel and data
to the IBM facility where they restored computer operations.
   The bank and the commodities-trading firm have since
returned to their headquarters where Con Edison power had
been restored, but the insurance company continues to operate
out of the Franklin Lakes facility.
   ---
   Charles McCoy and James P. Miller contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900820-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900820-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Businessland Posts Fourth-Quarter Loss
   Of $21.5 Million; Stock Plummets 58%
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   BLI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Businessland Inc. reported a net loss of $21.5 million for
its fiscal fourth quarter ended June 30 and restated results
for its fiscal second and third quarters, increasing the net
losses for those periods.
   Investors drilled the San Jose, Calif., computer dealer's
stock, which tumbled 58% to close at $2.875, down $4, in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Among other computer
dealers, MicroAge closed at $13.25, down $4, and Intelligent
Electronics at $15.875, down 37.5 cents, both in national
over-the-counter trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Businessland said its fourth-quarter loss was equal to 73
cents a share. Most analysts expected the company to post a
small profit or at worst a loss of five cents a share. In the
year-earlier period, Businessland had a profit of $7.4
million, or 23 cents a share, on sales of $322.6 million.
   The collapse of Businessland's stock prompted speculation
that the company now may be a takeover target. The company's
market value, based on about 30 million shares outstanding,
was a mere $86.3 million at the close of yesterday's trading.
At that price, some observers think Businessland, which
reported revenues of $339 million for the fourth quarter and
$1.35 billion for the fiscal year, would make an attractive
acquisition, especially for a healthier computer dealer.
   Even if Businessland isn't in play, the company's
weakening condition appears to threaten its independence.
"The question is: Can this company survive as an independent
entity?" asked Charles Wolf, an analyst at First Boston Corp.
   David Norman, Businessland's chief executive, is confident
the company can recover. "We believe we have the staying
power to be a major player," he said.
   Observers are less sure, saying Businessland is paying
dearly today for some disastrous moves made in recent years.
These include an enervating price war Businessland sparked
last year and a 1988 acquisition of ComputerCraft, a
store-front retailer that's posting losses.
   Businessland also is suffering from the after-effects of a
rift with Compaq Computer Corp. In February 1989, Compaq
dropped Businessland as a distributor and although the two
companies made up this March Mr. Norman said he is only now
"making progress in winning back customers that we lost."
   "Basically, the company has never recovered from the
Compaq thing," said Benny Lorenzo, an analyst at Volpe Welty
&amp; Co.
   Observers are disturbed as well by Businessland's need to
restate results for its second and third quarters. Mr. Norman
said the restatements were the result of "accounting errors,"
but these mistakes doubled the company's third-quarter loss
and their disclosure has weakened confidence in Mr. Norman's
management.
   "The company's poor financial results heighten the fact
that Businessland's management and entire culture must change
fairly soon," said Seymour Merrin, a computer retailing
analyst in Palo Alto, Calif.
   Mr. Norman insists changes are in the works. For much of
this year he has been streamlining operations while at the
same time expanding overseas. In January, he closed about 90
outlets and cut the work force by about 7%. Then in June, he
dismissed his two highest-ranking sales and marketing
executives, citing poor performance, and has yet to name
successors.
   Mr. Norman admits, however, that Businessland, which has
tried to position itself as a sophisticated supplier and
networker of computers, still doesn't receive enough revenue
from services, maintenance and training. The company gets
about 7% of its revenue from such high-margin services, well
below the double-digit percentage Mr. Norman believes will
insure the firm's profitability.
   He also concedes he erred in investing so heavily in
selling higher-priced machines such as servers and
workstations, which aren't typically sold by personal
computer dealers. "We got ahead of ourselves," he said.
   Mr. Norman blamed the poor fourth quarter on losses from
the firm's expanding international operations and its
20-store ComputerCraft retail group. Also contributing to the
loss was a $6 million charge involved in closing 15
facilities, the deferral to future quarters of credits from
some vendors, and increases in inventories of spare parts for
computers serviced by the company.
   For the year, Businessland had a net loss of $23.1
million, or 76 cents a share, in contrast to net income of
$32.9 million, $1.04 a share, in its fiscal 1989. Revenue
rose to $1.35 billion from $1.18 billion.
   The losses placed Businessland in violation of certain
covenants with lenders, and Mr. Norman said he hadn't yet
learned what the lenders' position is on revising loan
agreements.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   BUSINESSLAND Inc. said it closed about 19 outlets in
January. The number was misstated in the Aug. 7 edition.
   (WSJ Aug. 20, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
