<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NYSE Seat Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange said a seat was
sold for $320,000, down $5,000 from the previous sale Aug.
14. Seats are currently quoted at $310,000 bid, and $330,000
asked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Energy Department Unveils Strategy
   To Cut U.S. Dependence on Mideast Oil
   ----
   By Barbara Rosewicz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST BP XON AR
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration unveiled its first
energy strategy to cope with oil-supply disruptions in the
Middle East and identified ways to reduce U.S. dependence on
foreign oil as much as 550,000 barrels a day by year end.
   But the reductions, which would replace much of the
610,000 barrels a day the U.S. bought from Iraq and Kuwait,
rely heavily on voluntary cooperation from industry, local
governments and consumers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plan, which puts inflating automobile tires at the top
of its list of energy-saving measures, steers clear of
mandating consumer behavior and of the most controversial
means of reducing the use of foreign oil, such as opening up
an Alaska wilderness area to oil drilling or tightening
fuel-economy standards for new cars.
   "It sounds good, but it's marginal and it doesn't go far
enough," said Eli Bergman, head of the non-profit policy
group Americans for Energy Independence.
   The measures announced by the Energy Department envision
that by the end of the year domestic energy supplies can be
increased 270,000 barrels a day and demand can be reduced
280,000 barrels a day. Energy Secretary James Watkins said
much of the savings could be made within 90 days, quickly
replacing the equivalent of 400,000 barrels of imported oil.
   Mr. Watkins called the steps "prudent" but said there is
no energy crisis. "Today's supplies are adequate," he told
reporters.
   He said the plan, which comes two weeks after Iraq shocked
world oil markets by invading Kuwait, is only the first
installment of steps under consideration by energy officials
and the White House. More could come as soon as two weeks, he
said.
   Officials reiterated the White House's stand that there is
no need to dip into the government's Strategic Petroleum
Reserve, and they expressed confidence that other nations
will pump enough extra oil to make up for embargoed Kuwaiti
and Iraqi oil.
   Still, officials called on U.S. consumers to do their part
to head off an oil shortage by making a few simple changes in
driving practices.
   Inflating tires on vehicles to the proper pressure would
improve gasoline mileage and save 100,000 barrels of oil a
day. Surveys show about half of drivers' tires are
underinflated.
   The government is also urging drivers to do more
car-pooling and van-pooling, saving 90,000 barrels a day with
only 20% more ride-sharing; observe speed limits to save
50,000 barrels a day; and drive the most energy-efficient car
if there's a choice. If one out of five two-car families in
the U.S. drove the car that gets the higher gasoline mileage,
the U.S. would save 40,000 barrels of oil a day, the
government said.
   "It's the kind of things that are not really asking you to
turn off your air-conditioning or turn off your heat in
winter, but simple things that can have an impact," said
Deputy Energy Secretary Henson Moore.
   On the supply side, officials said that British Petroleum
Co., Exxon Corp. and Atlantic Richfield Co. have agreed to
boost production by 50,000 barrels a day from the North Slope
of Alaska, where they already produce 1.8 million barrels a
day. Those producers also said that an expansion project
under way in the Alaska oil fields can be counted on to boost
production a further 90,000 barrels a day starting in
November and as much as 140,000 barrels a day in six months.
   The government will increase its production from U.S.
naval petroleum reserves by 5,000 barrels a day by October,
Mr. Watkins said.
   But the bulk of measures the government is counting on to
replace Kuwaiti and Iraqi oil in the short term -- a total of
215,000 barrels under its plan -- aren't guaranteed to
succeed.
   The Energy Department, as reported earlier, will mediate a
California dispute that is keeping 200 million to 300 million
barrels of oil locked under the ocean floor. Mr. Watkins said
top-level officials of Chevron Corp. "are encouraging our
coming in and acting as a facilitator" between oil producers
and Santa Barbara County officials.
   Mr. Watkins said he hopes that the dispute over the Point
Arguello project can be resolved within six months and that
the three completed offshore oil platforms, which have been
sitting idle for 2 1/2 years, can be pumping 75,000 barrels a
day by year end. They eventually could produce as much as
100,000 barrels a day. The oil is caught up in a controversy
over whether to move it by tanker or pipeline to refineries
130 miles down the coast.
   The Energy Department is ordering all its vehicles
switched to gasohol -- a blend of gasoline and 10% alcohol
fuel -- and other government agencies will be approached to
make the switch. The department is urging producers of
ethanol, an alcohol fuel, to produce at full capacity. The
department isn't taking any other steps to mandate wider use
of gasohol, but is counting on increased usage to replace
10,000 barrels of oil a day.
   The government said it also intends to work with the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and state utility
commissions to remove obstacles and possibly increase
pipeline capacity to allow more industries to switch from oil
to more plentiful natural gas. They are banking on the shift
to offset 100,000 barrels a day of foreign oil. Some
dual-fuel plants have already switched.
   Officials also are counting on persuading oil-producing
states to relax regulations on "allowables" that restrict
certain well production, for an extra 30,000 barrels a day.
   "It's wildly optimistic," said Ed Rothschild, head of a
Washington lobbying group on consumer and labor issues. "If
you want to talk about where the oil is and where you can get
immediate access to it, it's in the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve. It was designed for this purpose and it ought to be
used for this purpose."
   The Energy Department also urged independent oil producers
to increase production. But Mr. Watkins said he doesn't
anticipate a reversal in declining U.S. oil drilling unless
oil prices of about $25 a barrel persist for six months or so
and give drillers the incentive to make long-term
investments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Health:
   Margarine
   May Boost
   Cholesterol
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Makers of margarines and shortenings may be unwittingly
turning a benign fat into an unhealthy one.
   This is the implication of a Dutch experiment that found
that a form of fat, created when vegetable oils are
hydrogenated into margarine and shortening, tends to raise
blood levels of LDL, or "bad" cholesterol, and decrease HDL,
or "good" cholesterol. This type of change in blood
cholesterol levels has been linked to coronary heart disease.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The report by Dutch scientists, based on an experiment
with 59 health volunteers, is published in this week's New
England Journal of Medicine. In an editorial accompanying the
report from the Netherlands, a prominent U.S. nutrition
researcher called for a change in the way margarines and
shortenings are produced and labeled.
   The U.S. scientist, Scott M. Grundy, urged that food
labeling be changed to list specific cholesterol-raising
fats. At present, food labels give the percentages and
calories of each of three classes of fats -- saturated,
monounsaturated and polyunsaturated. This labeling is based
on the assumption that polyunsaturated fats lower blood
cholesterol while saturated fats raise it. New research,
including the Dutch report, shows that this assumption is no
longer valid, Dr. Grundy wrote.
   A spokesman for Procter &amp; Gamble Co., the big
Cincinnati-based food processor and consumer products
concern, said, "We have a number of serious concerns about
whether the findings are relevant for people eating a typical
American diet." He explained that Dutch researchers used
several times as much of the implicated fat in their test as
the average American eats.
   Elaine Ault, a spokeswoman for the International Food
Information Council, which is funded by the food industry,
suggested that "the public refrain from making any dietary
changes based on just one study in which the subjects
consumed extremely high levels" of fats "for a relatively
short time."
   Ms. Ault said the amount of implicated fat given to the
subjects was about four times greater than is normally
consumed by Americans. Also, the study was three weeks long,
and it takes longer than that for blood cholesterol levels to
stabilize, Ms. Ault said.
   The Dutch experiment was undertaken because of questions
about the health effects of changing the molecular geometry
of food when processors hydrogenate soybean, peanut,
sunflower and other vegetable oils. Hydrogenation hooks
hydrogen atoms onto carbon atoms of the fat, causing the
liquid vegetable oil to solidify.
   Hydrogenation was developed early in this century to
prevent vegetable oils from becoming rancid. Partial
hydrogenation produced the semi-solid shortenings, epitomized
by P&amp;G's Crisco, first marketed in 1911, that rapidly became
a cheap, plentiful and popular substitute for lard in
cooking. Margarines, peanut butter and a host of similar food
products, including the fats used in commercial baked goods,
also are partially hydrogenated vegetable oils.
   In addition to hooking hydrogen atoms to carbon atoms,
hydrogenation causes a geometrical change in some fat
molecules. Fat molecules occurring naturally in vegetable
oils are in the "cis-" configuration that has a kink or bend
in the molecule. The kink prevents the oil from solidifying.
One effect of hydrogenation is to straighten out the molecule
by converting it to the "trans-" form.
   One of the fats that undergoes this change, oleic acid, is
an unsaturated fat, the kind that until now has been used to
lower cholesterol levels. The Dutch experiment was undertaken
to see if the trans form of oleic acid had any different
effect on blood cholesterol than the cis form.
   For their experiment at the Agricultural University in
Wageningen, the Dutch scientists, Ronald P. Mensink and
Martijn B. Katan had a research laboratory of the Unilever
Group, the big Anglo-Dutch food processor, partially
hydrogenate sunflower oil so that half its oleic acid was
converted to the trans form. They used this form of oleic
acid to make margarines and shortenings that were rich in the
trans form of the unsaturated fat.
   The 34 healthy women and 25 healthy men were then asked to
eat the special foods for three weeks, during which time
their cholesterol levels were measured. The volunteers then
switched for three weeks to a diet rich in the more natural
or cis form of oleic acid. Then in the third part of the
experiments, the volunteers ate a diet rich in saturated
fats, the kind that raises cholesterol levels.
   As expected, the saturated fat diet raised blood
cholesterol levels an average of 21 milligrams per deciliter
of blood plasma over the levels recorded when the volunteers
were eating the diet with the natural cis form of oleic acid.
   The key finding, however, was that the diet rich in the
trans form of oleic acid created by hydrogenation raised
total cholesterol levels by an average of 10 milligrams.
Moreover, the level of HDL, the "good" cholesterol, dropped
by seven milligrams when the volunteers switched to the trans
diet from the cis diet. At the same time, the level of LDL,
the "bad" kind, rose an average of 14 milligrams.
   In his editorial, Dr. Grundy, who is at the University of
Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas, noted that the
trans forms of fats make up only 3% to 4% of the total
calories in the average U.S. diet. "Superficially, they
appear to be of little importance," he wrote. But, he argued,
if Americans are going to be make substantial cutbacks in the
amount of cholesterol-raising fats they consume, then they
will have to cut back on a wide variety of foods, including
hydrogenated oils containing trans forms of unsaturated fats.
   The nutritionist also noted that recent research,
including his own experiments, had found that, contrary to
previous assumptions, one of the saturated fats, stearic
acid, doesn't increase cholesterol levels.
   "We are now faced with the paradox that a saturated fatty
acid, stearic acid, does not increase serum cholesterol
levels, whereas monounsaturated fatty acids of the trans
variety do," Dr. Grundy wrote. For this reason, he argued,
labeling fats in foods as merely saturated, monounsaturated
and polyunsaturated isn't meaningful any longer. "Instead,
the various culpable acids should be grouped together as
cholesterol-raising fatty acids."
   Dr. Grundy also suggested that food processors could
reduce the amount of the trans fatty acids in margarines and
shortenings by reducing the degree of hydrogenation and by
blending more natural fats into the products instead to get
the desired consistency.
   ---
   Alix M. Freedman contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   S&amp;L Scandal: the Nature of the Beast
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   I never cease to be amazed that the American people, and
especially our political and business leaders, continue to
miss the mark when it comes to making needed changes ("Tricky
Issue: Thrift Scandal, Viewed as Political Dynamite, Is Slow
to Detonate" page one, July 13).
   The problem is not that major responsibility for the
thrift debacle should be placed on either Democrats or
Republicans. The real problem is -- given man's nature to
take unfair advantage of his fellow men -- that any type of
government subsidy serves as an open invitation for would-be
plunderers to swarm in.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until we get the federal government out of subsidizing
financial institutions, we will continue having one scandal
after another. Of course, the same thing can be said for
government subsidies or "aid" to farmers, small businesses,
big corporations, the poor, the homeless, the blind, the
aged.
   There is only one solution to the scandals and scams, and
that is to limit the role of civil government to the one and
only job it is competent to do: maintain law and order so
that people can be free to serve each other in an atmosphere
of free competition.
   Tom Rose
   Professor of Economics
   Grove City College
   Grove City, Pa.
   ---
   Your article reminds me about your very comprehensive
stories several years ago about Democrats Jim Wright, former
House speaker, and Tony Coehlo, former majority whip, and
their involvement in the S&amp;L scandal.
   To now quote Democratic National Chairman Ron Brown and
then not publish a quote from the Republican National
chairman shows your unfairness. Kevin Phillips does not speak
for the Republican Party.
   We are all angry about the S&amp;L mess, but any insinuation
that President Bush is the person most responsible ignores
history and the facts.
   This problem was created by stupid tax loopholes and S&amp;L
regulations, created by a Democratic Congress to benefit
real-estate wheelers and dealers.
   Joyce Hugman
   Gladewater, Texas
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Pentagon Tightens Purse Strings as It Discovers
   Middle East Costs Are Fast Outpacing Its Budget
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A few days ago, the Army's top brass ordered
commanders world-wide to begin estimating the cost of
Operation Desert Shield. Among the working assumptions in the
cable, one was particularly sobering: that troops would be
based in the desert for six months.
   The cable contained some further unsettling orders. "Cease
all nonessential/discretionary expenditures," it ordered.
"Identify resulting funds which can be returned to
headquarters."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As prospects increase for a drawn-out face-off with Iraq
in the deserts of Saudi Arabia, Pentagon spending plans are
being quickly outpaced. Simply ordering the battleship
Wisconsin to steam to the Mideast at a faster speed, for
instance, will burn up an estimated $500,000 of extra fuel.
Taking account of the unexpected fuel costs, the need for
extra spare parts and the expense of stepped-up training, the
Persian Gulf mission could cost $3 billion to $5 billion --
possibly much more, depending on how long it lasts.
   The cost burden has touched off a new round of
inter-service bickering. The Army, for instance, is demanding
that some ships sit idle for days while waiting to pick up
tanks and troops, provoking complaints from the Navy. The Air
Force, for its part, is still feuding with the Army over the
cost of airlifting troops for last year's invasion of Panama.
Pentagon planners, who just last month were studying spending
cuts, are now also preparing to write a supplemental
appropriations bill to cover suddenly increased costs.
   "The cost is clearly going to be heavy," says George
Carver, a former high-ranking State Department and Central
Intelligence Agency official now at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies. "The president clearly is prepared
to do whatever is necessary, including calling up reserves,
to get the job done."
   During a briefing inside the Pentagon's "tank" -- a room
shielded from electronic eavesdropping -- President Bush
faced some difficult choices of his own. The military wants
him to order the largest mobilization of reservists in almost
30 years -- adding not only to the financial burden but to
the domestic political risk as well.
   Such a sensitive step -- comparable in some ways to
declaring a national emergency -- could intensify public
anxiety and possibly weaken the public consensus behind the
"line in the sand" that President Bush has drawn for Iraq's
Saddam Hussein. Calling up the reserves "makes perfect sense
from a military standpoint," says one Pentagon official, "but
undoubtedly it will shock a lot of people by pointing out the
seriousness of the situation."
   But the complexities of a long-term commitment in Saudi
Arabia demand a massive reserve deployment, military
officials say. For every front-line tank, or infantry unit
digging in at the Iraqi border, the Army must mobilize at
least as many troops to help feed, arm and otherwise support
those soldiers. That will require activating entire reserve
brigades, spending several weeks training and equipping those
troops for the harsh desert environment, and then deploying
many of them to Saudi Arabia for at least several months.
   The back-up troops, which could number 60,000 or more in
this first phase, run the gamut from cooks and truck drivers
to communications technicians and intelligence analysts. Gen.
Carl Vuono, the Army's chief of staff, and other military
leaders argue that pressing them into service fast is the
only way of keeping the Middle East crisis from stripping
support units from active-duty forces currently stationed in
Europe or the U.S.
   Government and outside analysts agree that the escalating
deployment poses the most daunting financial and logistical
problems the Pentagon has confronted since Vietnam. During
peak times, giant C-5 and C-141 cargo planes have been
landing every 10 minutes in Saudi Arabia. The Pentagon is
chartering commercial jumbo jets to ferry troops, and it has
activated at least 16 ships to carry larger loads on the
12,000-mile voyage.
   For all the feverish, round-the-clock activity, it will
still take at least two weeks for the most potent U.S. tanks
to reach the scene. When they do arrive, it remains to be
seen how troops from the U.S., Britain, Egypt, Morocco, Syria
and Pakistan will be melded to form a single, coherent force
-- much less what portion of the overall cost the Saudi
government, not to mention the Germans or Japanese or other
beneficiaries of the mission, will be willing to pick up.
   Back home, the services are struggling to get a handle on
the costs and jockeying for ways to cushion the impact on
their accounts. "When the services estimate costs," says Mr.
Carver, "it's often an exercise in creative billing."
   So far, Pentagon officials insist, bureaucratic infighting
hasn't prevented any badly needed hardware or soldiers from
leaving the U.S. But there has been plenty of intramural
tension.
   A few days ago, commanders of the Army's 24th Mechanized
Infantry Division, based at Fort Stewart, Ga., lambasted Navy
officers because they failed to have specially equipped
transport ships tied up at the dock waiting to take troops to
the Middle East. Navy brass countered that it would be
expensive and unnecessary to have ships bobbing empty for
days while troops, 80-ton tanks and hundreds of armored
fighting vehicles were readied for loading.
   The invasion of Panama played a big part in helping
prepare Military Airlift Command crews for the current
situation, says Col. Robert Duignan, deputy commander for
operations for a wing of more than two dozen C-141s manned by
reservists and based at Andrews Air Force Base in
Washington's Maryland suburbs. "We learn important lessons .
. . every time there is that kind of increased military
activity," he says.
   But this time, the sheer task of tracking expenses is
mind-boggling. The two-page internal Army memo, which lays
out rules for estimating costs, gives commanders a detailed
29-point checklist to follow. The items include "operational
rations," porthandling costs, stepped-up maintenance efforts
and "incremental" increases in flying hours for helicopters.
   The cost projections, which must be updated every two
weeks, also must include a "brief narrative description" of
extra expenses incurred for such things as "sundries packs"
and "evacuation of personnel."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Texas Meridian Reorganization
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TMR
</CO>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Texas Meridian Resources Ltd., a master limited
partnership, said it plans to reorganize into a corporate
entity and that in conjunction with the restructuring,
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. will increase the oil and gas
concern's existing revolving credit line to $32.5 million
plus a new subordinated note in the amount of $5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Imperial Chemical Industries PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ICI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES PLC (London) -- Philip
Daubeney, 51-year-old managing director of ICI India, was
named regional executive of this chemical company's African
and Eastern region, effective in October, succeeding Roy
Allen, 55, who is to retire. George Ewart, 52, general
manager of chemical products at ICI Chemicals &amp; Polymers
Ltd., was appointed managing director-designate of ICI India,
to succeed Mr. Daubeney.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Fund Assets
   Grew $3.5 Billion
   In the Latest Week
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Investors poured $3.5 billion more into money market
mutual funds in the latest week, amid continued uncertainty
about the stock and bond markets.
   Assets of 431 taxable funds rose $3 billion in the week
ended Tuesday, to $393.9 billion, a record, according to
IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report. Assets of 228 tax-free
funds grew $457.2 million to a record $79.9 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yields, meanwhile, were flat. The average seven-day
compound yield of the taxable funds stayed at 7.78%,
remaining at the lowest level since the fall of 1988.
Compound yields assume reinvestment of dividends.
   The latest surge in money funds comes at a time when
investors are faced with considerable uncertainty in the
stock and bond markets. The Dow Jones Industrial Average has
fallen about 150 points since Aug. 2, when Iraqi troops moved
into Kuwait. Long-term bond prices have fallen significantly.
Total money fund assets had surged $6.8 billion in the week
ended Aug. 7.
   Average maturity of the taxable funds' investments -- such
things as commercial paper (short-term corporate IOUs), bank
certificates of deposit, and short-term Treasury securities
-- remained at a fairly long 45 days, within the range of the
past few months and a sign that yields aren't likely to
change significantly anytime soon.
   Noting that short-term interest rates have been "kind of
flat," Martha Wittbrodt, editor of the Holliston, Mass.,
newsletter, said there's no reason for fund managers to
change maturities. Average maturity has been as short as 29
days and as long as 53 days in recent years.
   The average seven-day simple yield of the taxable funds
remained at 7.50%. The average 30-day simple yield slid to
7.54% from 7.58%, and the average 30-day compound yield eased
to 7.83% from 7.87%.
   The average seven-day compound yield of the tax-free funds
inched up to 5.21% from 5.19%. That's equal to a taxable
yield of 7.24% for an investor in the 28% tax bracket and
7.78% for someone paying 33% taxes.
   Average maturity for the tax-exempt funds lengthened one
day to 55 days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pier 1 Imports' Sales Increase
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   PIR
</CO>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- Pier 1 Imports Inc., a specialty
retailer, said its sales for the month ended Aug. 4 increased
16% to $45.9 million from $39.8 million a year earlier. Sales
at stores open at least one year rose 0.3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Changes Urged
   In Cancer, AIDS
   Medicine Rules
   ---
   U.S. Panel Seeks to Speed
   Approval of New Drugs
   For the Desperately Ill
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A presidential panel recommended significant
and potentially controversial changes to speed the
availability of new medicines to people facing death from
cancer and AIDS.
   Patients suffering from life-threatening illnesses "can't
afford the luxury of waiting for drug development and
regulation to move as slowly as they usually do," the
National Committee to Review Current Procedures for Approval
of New Drugs for Cancer and AIDS said in a report presented
to President Bush yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The panel urged the Food and Drug Administration to speed
the approval of new drugs by shortening required tests,
paying more attention to effectiveness when trying to balance
the benefits against the safety of a new drug and relying
more on outside reviewers financed by drug companies to ease
the agency's workload.
   In addition, the panel said Medicare, Medicaid and private
insurers should cover the medical costs associated with the
use of investigational drugs that haven't completed the FDA
clearance process. The government and many insurers currently
don't cover such costs.
   Because of pressure from patient groups, which support the
thrust of the report, some of the panel's recommendations
could get serious consideration. Administration officials
wouldn't say when they plan to consider the report, but the
FDA is already moving in the direction of some of the
recommendations.
   The nub of the panel's report is that rapidly changing
medical technology demands a more flexible approach to
approving promising new drugs for desperately ill patients.
"Regulatory personnel in the FDA must adapt to these new
needs, and take a positive attitude toward such innovation,"
it said.
   Adoption of the panel's recommendations could cut two
years from the average seven it takes to bring a new drug to
market, estimated Louis Lasagna, the panel's chairman and
dean of the Sackler School of Graduate Biomedical Sciences at
Tufts University.
   While the FDA gradually has streamlined its procedures for
making new drugs available to patients with cancer and
acquired immune deficiency syndrome, "there's still room for
improvement," Dr. Lasagna said at a news conference. "The
agency has been more demanding on occasion than it needed to
be."
   In addition, the report said the FDA lacks the money,
space and people it needs. The agency also lacks a leader;
Commissioner Frank Young resigned last year after the
agency's generic drug section was rocked by a bribery
scandal. No successor is in sight.
   Health and Human Services Secretary Louis Sullivan, who
must review the new report, already has set up a separate
committee to study FDA operations, and the new
recommendations could become part of that effort. However,
AIDS and cancer patients, who have become a powerful force in
spurring the accelerated availability of new therapies, are
likely to push for faster action on the panel's advice.
   The panel questioned the FDA's conservative "safety-first"
philosophy and its traditional arm's length dealing with the
drug companies it regulates. Currently, companies test new
drugs in laboratories and on animals before seeking FDA
permission to start testing the safety of the drug on humans,
so-called Phase I trials. Phase 2 trials test the efficacy of
the drugs in larger human tests, and Phase 3 trials compare
the new drug with existing therapies.
   "The public would benefit if more potential drug
treatments reached human study," the report said. "The cost,
complexity and paper work burdens of Phase 1 clinical studies
need to be reduced." The panel suggested that companies or
labs developing new drugs have the right to obtain a safety
review from an independent board of technical experts, rather
than the FDA.
   At the conclusion of clinical trials, the panel said,
companies should have the option of paying the FDA "for
outside review by qualified experts who have no conflict of
interest" to recommend to the agency whether or not the drug
should be approved for use.
   In general, the panel said drug development would be
accelerated by freer, less formal and more regular
communication between companies and the FDA. "The artificial
barriers that have been erected . . . have created a serious
threat to rapid development and approval of new drugs, and
can no longer be tolerated," the panel said.
   This could be one of the panel's more controversial
suggestions. "Altering the relationship between industry and
the FDA isn't a good idea," warned Sidney Wolfe of
consumer-oriented Health Research Group. "The reason we have
drug safety and efficacy laws is that industry has
demonstrated beyond a shadow of a doubt that it's incapable
of any self-regulation. There should be an adversary
relationship."
   In approaching the challenge of developing more drugs for
desperately ill patients, Dr. Lasagna said, "There is more
good than harm to come from an attitude that says the chief
job of the FDA is not to protect the public from drug
toxicity but to have benefits from drugs." In its report, the
panel noted that AIDS and cancer patients have made it clear
that they are willing to accept the higher risks inherent in
such an approach.
   The FDA frequently focuses on whether drugs for terminally
ill people increase the length of survival, but the panel
recommended a new focus on "surrogate end-points," such as
the rate of tumor regression in cancer patients or CD4 white
blood cell counts in AIDS patients.
   In addition, the panel recommended that the FDA do more to
expand access to promising new drugs in the early stages of
clinical trials. It also urged that the agency work more
closely with the National Cancer Institute and the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, where much AIDS
research takes place.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wheeling-Pittsburgh Creditors
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   WHX
</CO>
<LP>
   WHEELING, W.Va. -- Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp. said
certain creditors will receive less than expected under the
company's reorganization plan as a result of a tentative
labor settlement with the United Steelworkers of America.
   The steelmaker said the specific effect on distributions
will be included in an amended plan to be filed soon. The
amended plan will also include provisions to issue an
additional 1.5 million common shares to participants in the
company's existing employee investment plan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   BMY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB Co. (New York) -- Charles G. Tharp
was named vice president, compensation and human resources
development, a new post, at this diversified pharmaceuticals
company. Mr. Tharp, 38 years old, was previously director,
compensation and benefits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mead Lays Off 151 Employees
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MEA
</CO>
<LP>
   DAYTON, Ohio -- Mead Corp., which has interests in
electronic publishing and forest products, said it laid off
151, or 43%, of the employees at its imaging unit, citing
slow developments in the overall market for color copiers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Logicon to Buy Hadson Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LGN HAD
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Logicon Inc. said it agreed in principle to
acquire the Ultrasystems Defense Inc. subsidiary of Oklahoma
City-based Hadson Corp.
   Terms weren't disclosed. Ultrasystems Defense, an Irvine,
Calif.-based professional services company specializing in
systems engineering and software development, has annual
revenue of about $27 million and employs 280 people. Logicon
provides advanced technology systems and services to support
national security, civil and industrial needs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Provident Bancorp Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PRBK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Provident Bancorp Inc. said it would acquire
Suburban Federal Savings Bank of Cincinnati in a merger
conversion. Suburban Federal is a mutual institution, which
means it's owned by depositers and has no stock.
   Provident, a $2 billion bank holding company, said it
would offer Suburban depositers the opportunity to subscribe
to stock of Provident.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Wednesday, August 15, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/2% high, 8 1/16% low, 8 1/4% near
closing bid, 8 1/2% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.90% 30 to 43 days; 7.825% 44 to 59 days;
7.725% 60 to 89 days; 7.625% 90 to 119 days; 7.55% 120 to 179
days; 7.40% 180 t0 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 7.95%
30 days; 7.87% 60 days; 7.80% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.65% one month; 7.67% two
months; 7.70% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.06% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 7.90% one month; 7.85% three months;
7.85% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.92% 30 days; 7.80% 60 days; 7.72%
90 days; 7.62% 120 days; 7.59% 150 days; 7.55% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/16% - 7 15/16% one month; 8
1/16% - 7 15/16% two months; 8% - 7 7/8% three months; 8% - 7
7/8% four months; 8% - 7 7/8% five months; 8% - 7 7/8% six
months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/16% one month;
8% three months; 8% six months; 8 1/16% one year. The average
of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the London
market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, August 13, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.41% 13 weeks; 7.31% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 9.99%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.125%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.89%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.30%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.66%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sunrise Preschools Warrants
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNR
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -- Sunrise Preschools Inc. said it
extended for one year to Sept. 11, 1991, the expiration date
for holders of its warrants to exercise them for one million
of the company's common shares. The operator of preschools in
Arizona and Hawaii said the warrants, which were issued as
part of its initial public offering in 1987, have an exercise
price of $5 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Pentagon Widens
   High-Definition
   Display Projects
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica and Robert L. Rose
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   ZE TEK
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Pentagon, signaling its continuing interest in
high-definition display systems, announced the selection of
six more contractors to work on military applications of the
advanced technology.
   The contractors are to pursue various aspects of this
technology, which can produce finely detailed images or
high-volume information through conventional electron tubes
or flat-panel screens.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Zenith Electronics Corp. of Glenview, Ill., one of the
largest of the companies, was chosen to work on enhancing the
capability of cathode-ray tubes that are commonly used in
television sets and computers. Ovonic Imaging Systems Inc. of
Troy, Mich., will make active-matrix liquid-crystal displays
for aircraft cockpits and other military uses.
   The other companies selected are Norden Systems Inc.,
Norwalk, Conn.; MRS Technology Inc., Chelmsford, Mass.;
Microelectronics &amp; Computer Technology Corp., Austin, Texas;
and Tektronix Inc., Beaverton, Ore. The amount of awards for
each of these companies will be announced after they complete
negotiations with the Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency, the Pentagon unit overseeing the program.
   Though the Pentagon intends to use the advanced displays
only for its own purposes, the underlying technology
potentially has enormous commercial value in the future
manufacture of computers, medical imaging systems, and
high-definition television.
   The selections confirm statements by senior Pentagon aides
that this and other programs associated with Darpa's former
director, Craig Fields, will continue. Mr. Fields reportedly
lost his job because his Pentagon superiors objected to his
advocacy of a strong U.S. effort to promote new technologies
to meet the challenge of other industrial nations.
   The Pentagon said the selections complete the process of
identifying U.S. companies that are qualified to work in the
high-definition display field. Ten other U.S. companies,
including Xerox Corp. and Texas Instruments Inc., were
admitted to the program earlier.
   Zenith said the federal government plans to spend at least
$1 million to finance part of the company's research on
displays for military computers. Though the award is
relatively small, it will be a boost for Zenith, which is
spending $10 million of its own money this year for research
on high-definition television systems, which promise sharper
pictures and sound than current television sets deliver.
   The grant gives Zenith help in its effort to come up with
larger-screen versions of its so-called flat tension mask
color picture tubes. Zenith's clear, flat displays now are
used for computers, but the company hopes to use them for
HDTV sets in the future.
   Zenith is battling larger and better-financed foreign
companies to come up with an HDTV system for the U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Realty Refund Trust
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   RRF WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   REALTY REFUND TRUST (Cleveland) -- David A. Daberko,
president and chief executive officer of National City Bank,
was named a director of this real-estate investment trust,
increasing the size of the board to nine.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Corp. Finance Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. lowered finance
rates on 10 models, and extended incentives on its other 1989
and 1990 cars and trucks.
   The No. 3 U.S. auto maker said it will reduce interest
rates to 4.8%, from 7.9%, on 25-month to 48-month loans and
to 7.9%, from 10.9%, on 49-month to 60-month loans on some
vehicles. Models affected by the lower interest rate are: the
Chrysler LeBaron coupe, New Yorker, Salon, Landau, Fifth
Avenue and Imperial; Dodge Daytona and Dynasty and the Jeep
Cherokee and Wagoneer Limited.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company extended through Sept. 30 the other
incentives, with rebates ranging from $500 to $2,500.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Garbage In,
   Garbage Out
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   The solution to "AWFUL TV," suggests Robert Goldberg in
his July 23 Leisure &amp; Arts article, is for parents to unplug
the television set.
   Society's problem is that TV is the parent to millions of
kids -- latchkey kids, one-parent kids, two-parents-working
kids. Mr. Goldberg says that the average family watches seven
hours of TV a day. How much do poor families watch? How many
poor kids get to bed before the 8 p.m. start of adult
programming?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Parents, of course, teach mostly by example. So what does
our TV parent teach? Sex, violence and stupidity. Moreover,
the voltage increases every season. For the coming season,
Mr. Goldberg tells us, CBS President Howard Stringer has
promised to exchange "bland" and "dull" for "coarse" and
"crude."
   Why do we need programs so stimulating that they glue us
to our TV sets? The British have dull TV, and good manners.
The Japanese have silly TV, and a powerful work ethic.
Neither have the violent, salacious fare so readily available
on American TV.
   Yes, Mr. Goldberg, I agree that the real problem is from
"the neck up." But if we're inputting garbage into the
tender, receptive brains of children, to use a computer
analogy, what do we expect for output? And what are the
consequences to our society?
   Richard A. Lewis
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Dubin &amp; Swieca Capital Management Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   DUBIN &amp; SWIECA CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Inc. (New York) -- Glenn
Dubin and Henry Swieca, both former senior vice presidents of
Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings, New York, formed their own
investment management company. At Shearson they had headed an
investment unit that concentrated in managing portfolios of
futures and options. The new company, which will specialize
in the formation and management of multi-adviser futures
portfolios, has more than $450 million under management.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tembec's Patriot to Buy Mill
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   TBC.A JR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Tembec Inc., a pulp and paper concern, said
its 50%-owned Patriot Paper Corp. agreed to acquire an idle
paper mill in Boston from James River Corp., a Richmond, Va.,
pulp and paper company. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Tembec said Patriot will invest about US$50 million over
the next 18 months to modernize the mill's equipment and
increase the capacity of its de-inking plant. Patriot plans
to produce office and printing papers, using pulp made from
recycled white, or office, papers collected in the Boston
area. The Boston mill can produce about 200 tons of paper a
day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tembec, which holds an option to increase its interest in
Patriot to 73%, said the remaining 50% of Patriot is held by
two U.S. businessmen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Good as Gold
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Robert L. Bartley's July 10 editorial-page article, "The
Great International Growth Slowdown," is brilliant. As one
option to establishing international monetary order, a return
to the gold standard seems sensible. In a follow-up article,
could you please expand upon the pros and cons of gold's
ability to bring back an era of international economic growth
-- which as a byproduct should contribute greatly to world
peace, a higher standard of living and a higher quality of
life for five billion people.
   Irving Lipsiner
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bethany, Conn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   U S West Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   USW WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   U S WEST Inc. (Englewood, Colo.) -- Alain Treille, 46
years old, a former vice president of ITT World Directories,
was named to the new position of vice president/international
operations for the U S West Marketing Resources Group
subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Duty Penalty
   On Canada Steel Rails
   Is Upheld by Panel
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA T.DFS BS
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- A U.S.-Canada panel upheld a U.S. decision to
impose countervailing duties on imported steel rails from
Canada because the imports threatened to injure U.S. steel
manufacturers.
   The panel, set up under provisions of the U.S.-Canada
free-trade agreement, ruled that the U.S. steel industry was
being injured by imports of subsidized and dumped steel rails
produced by Algoma Steel Corp., a unit of Dofasco Inc.,
Burlington, Ontario, and Sydney Steel Corp., a Nova Scotia
government agency.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. Commerce Department ruled last year that some of
the steel rail imports from Canada were dumped, or sold in
the U.S. at prices below the cost of production or the prices
in the home market. The department also found that they were
being subsidized by the Canadian government.
   The department said Algoma and other Canadian producers
had sold steel rails to U.S. railroads, subway systems and
other buyers at prices averaging 38.79% below the "fair
value" price. Another U.S.-Canada panel will review that
38.79% dumping margin in a ruling expected Aug. 30.
   James Melville, a vice president of Algoma Steel, said the
extra duties will be a "significant nuisance" to Algoma but
that they weren't a "fatal blow" to Algoma's steel rail
production. Mr. Melville estimated that Algoma's steel rail
exports to the U.S. total an average $10 million Canadian
dollars (US$8.7 million) a year, which, he said, made up very
little of Algoma's overall sales.
   The panel decision also upheld an order last year by the
U.S. International Trade Commission that extra duties be
placed on imported steel rails from Sydney Steel to offset
the Canadian government subsidies.
   The Commerce Department ruled that Algoma should be
excluded from countervailing duties placed on subsidized rail
imports because its estimated subsidies amounted to only
about 0.24% of the price of its rail exports.
   The U.S. government investigation originated from
complaints filed by Bethlehem, Pa.-based Bethlehem Steel
Corp. on behalf of the U.S. industry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Express Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN EXPRESS Co. (New York) -- Gary P. Tobin was named
vice president of communications and public affairs at the
information services unit of this travel, financial and
information services company. Mr. Tobin, 45 years old, was
previously vice president of U.S. public affairs at the
travel-related services unit, based in New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Occidental Unit Redemption
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OXY
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Occidental Petroleum Corp. said its MidCon
Corp. subsidiary will redeem on Sept. 17 all $175 million
outstanding of two debenture issues at 100% of their
principal amounts.
   The company said the redemptions, which will result in
lower interest expense, are part of its continuing program to
lengthen maturities of long-term debt. The debentures being
called are the $100 million outstanding of 13% series due
Sept. 15, 1993, and $75 million of 13 3/8% series due Oct.
15, 1994.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, Occidental said that the Flotta crude-oil
pipeline system in the North Sea will be closed for repairs
for two weeks beginning Aug. 23.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   For Foreign Troops,
   Saudi Arabia Poses
   Novel Challenges
   ---
   Islam's Modesty and Presence
   Of Royalty in Barracks
   Complicate the Mission
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   For foreign forces arriving in Saudi Arabia, the learning
curve is proving steep indeed. The first British crews
arriving from their base in Cyprus were astonished to hear
that their usual summer uniform -- shorts -- was banned in
Saudi Arabia under Islam's strict code of modesty, which
prohibits men from showing their knees.
   Multinational military missions are always fraught with
difficulties, but the delicate synthesis now under way in
Saudi Arabia is likely to prove more troublesome than most.
The U.S. troops now pouring into the Dhahran air base will be
working at a facility with the best infrastructure money can
buy -- and with an almost totally untested air force.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   They also are entering a Moslem society so closed and
conservative that the government never has issued tourist
visas, women are veiled, alien religious symbols such as
crucifixes are banned, and Jews are rarely admitted. Many
Saudis are appalled by the idea that U.S. forces almost
certainly contain some Jews, and the presence of U.S.
servicewomen working on aircraft violates every Saudi custom.
Misunderstanding can be total. "They blame us," says a male
military specialist. "They can't understand why we make our
women do such things."
   Dhahran's underground command facilities and elaborate
shelters are better equipped than NATO's. The shelters, their
entrances shielded and camouflaged, can service four aircraft
at a time and house crews for 30 days without resupply.
Dhahran is "a base the U.S. would love to have," says one
military expert.
   But opinion is divided on the quality of Saudi troops.
"The best help they could provide to the U.S. forces would be
to stay in their barracks," says one U.S. colonel who served
in Saudi Arabia. Others are more measured. "It's a spectrum,"
says a former key U.S. official in Dhahran. "If I had to go
into battle and I could pick {the pilots flying with me}, I
wouldn't mind at all."
   A former White House security adviser says, "It's hard to
say how the Saudi air force will perform, because it's only
been tested once." In 1984, Saudi F-15s downed Iranian F-4s
that had penetrated Saudi air space. However, U.S. E-3A
aircraft helped target the Iranians and U.S. tankers refueled
the Saudi planes.
   The Saudi air force hasn't been around long enough to
prove itself. Attempts to establish an air defense actually
began in 1930 but faltered until 1980, when a nervous Saudi
royal family, eyeing the fall of the shah in Iran, called on
the U.S. to help.
   The Pentagon rushed in, challenged by the task of
providing a defense for Saudi Arabia's vulnerable oil fields.
In the flat, featureless desert, targets stand out as if
marked with bull's-eyes. A single strike on a major facility
such as the water-injection plant that pushes out the oil
could cripple production for as long as two years. In such
terrain, nature is merciless. In summer, thermal air currents
can blind radar, and sandstorms strafe delicate equipment.
   The U.S. military came up with an exhaustive -- and
expensive -- plan, only part of which has been realized.
Opposition led by backers of Israel blocked several planned
sales of arms to the Saudis. Equipment that was delivered
often was modified to placate fears that Israel's security
would be compromised.
   For example, Saudi planes weren't supplied with the
secure, jam-proof communications systems the U.S. Air Force
uses, which are invaluable in a dense air battle. Without
such units, Saudi pilots fighting an engagement alongside
Americans won't be able to communicate fluidly.
Theoretically, the inferior Saudi system can be swapped for a
U.S. kit in about four hours. The Pentagon won't comment on
whether this has yet been done.
   In arguing for the Saudi arms deals, the Pentagon always
maintained that the close military ties forged by such sales
would be of vast benefit to the U.S. in a crisis such as the
one that sprang up when Iraqi forces invaded and took over
neighboring Kuwait two weeks ago.
   Major arms sales certainly created contact. After Saudi
Arabia purchased sophisticated airborne radar planes known as
Awacs, around 1,000 U.S. technicians, trainers and advisers
headed for the desert. Their influence created an air force
patterned on its U.S. counterpart both in organization and in
tactical doctrine. Young Saudis went to Phoenix, Ariz., for
training and returned wearing U.S.-style nicknames on their
flight suits.
   "Saudi pilots act a lot like U.S. Air Force pilots," says
a Pentagon official. "That's what happens when you have
ongoing relations with another force."
   But a lot of misunderstandings happen, too. Being a
fighter pilot is a prestigious position for young Saudis.
Many royals, such as the Saudi ambassador to the U.S., Prince
Bandar, wind up in flight school, and such young men aren't
used to brusque military discipline.
   "You can't say `You dummy, you did it wrong,' and you
certainly learn not to chew a guy out in front of his peers,"
says a former U.S. trainer. "I think the British" -- who also
supply aircraft and training to Saudi Arabia -- "are better
than us at making these kinds of cultural adjustments."
   But Don Kerr, a Briton who worked for seven years as an
instructor at a Saudi air academy, recalls that he too had to
make adjustments: "A student would disapper for several
months and then turn up, explaining that his father had died
and, as eldest son, he had an irrevocable duty to go home and
take control of the situation."
   He recalls classes containing both princes and humble
Bedouin tribesmen. In many ways, the Saudi pilot selection
system is more egalitarian than the West's; recruits are
selected straight from high school, without the requirement
of a college education. Most start with intensive
English-language instruction. Fluency is essential because
all technical manuals are printed in English and
international aviation works in that language.
   "Arabic has few technical terms," a U.S. aircraft engineer
working in Saudi Arabia says. "If you try to talk about an
engine component, you're left with saying the equivalent of
`the machine inside the machine.'"
   The engineer, whose job includes training, says many Saudi
youths don't have the kind of mechanical background that many
U.S. boys pick up almost casually. "In the States, if you're
a kid trying to change the wheel on your bike and you're
holding the wrench wrong, your dad'll reach over and put your
fingers into the right grip. These boys' dads never had a
bike, so they come to me starting right from scratch."
   Given those constraints, Saudis' achievements are
remarkable. Pilots now fly some of the most sophisticated and
difficult fighter planes in the world. One Saudi astronaut
flew a mission with the U.S. space shuttle.
   But the next few weeks could provide an acid test of Saudi
proficiency and U.S. training. They also will surely provide
a test of U.S. military diplomacy. As one young U.S.
helicopter pilot put it, "The people in this part of the
world can be awfully easy to offend."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Schedules Bond Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government said it will auction
next Tuesday 1.2 billion Canadian dollars (US$1.05 billion)
of two-year government bonds maturing Sept. 5, 1992. Proceeds
will be used to redeem C$650 million of government bonds
maturing Sept. 5, 1990, and for general government purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   General Instrument Buy-Out
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GRL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- General Instrument Corp. holders have tendered
some 95.5% of the cable-TV equipment company under a
$44.50-a-share offer from leveraged buy-out specialist
Forstmann Little &amp; Co.
   The offer, announced last month and set to expire last
Monday, was extended through 5 p.m. EDT Tuesday because of a
power outage in New York's financial district that prevented
some holders from tendering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Instrument and Forstmann Little are based here.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   First of America Stock Split
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   FOA
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   KALAMAZOO, Mich. -- First of America Bank Corp. declared a
2-for-1 stock split to be distributed Oct. 19 to shareholders
of record Sept. 21.
   The bank holding company also declared an increase in the
quarterly cash dividend to 30 cents a share, payable Oct. 19
to shareholders of record Sept. 21. The company said the new
payout, after the effect of the stock split, represents a 9%
rise in the quarterly dividend. The split will increase total
shares outstanding to 34.8 million from 17.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   It Ain't Over Till
   It's Over, We Thought
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Terry Eastland's July 23 editorial-page article about the
coming Supreme Court appointment contained two items that
seemed odd to me:
   1) He writes that President Eisenhower declared his
appointment of Justice William Brennan to the court was "his
worst mistake." Historical scholars will usually concede that
statement was made about Chief Justice Earl Warren.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   2) Is there some secret message in the description of the
writer at the article's end? It says he is "completing a book
on the Reagan and Bush presidencies." Really? So soon? Should
Dan Quayle call the moving van?
   Alfred J. Lurie
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FirstFed Michigan Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FFOM
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- FirstFed Michigan Corp. said it is starting to
repurchase 750,000 shares, or about 7%, of its common stock
outstanding. The thrift holding company said it expects to
complete the buy-back program within 12 months, subject to
market conditions.
   FirstFed officials said the repurchase will be made
through open-market negotiations, but officials didn't rule
out the possibility of unsolicited negotiated transactions or
other types of repurchases. The company said any repurchased
shares would become authorized, but unissued. They will be
used for general corporate purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Chasing Paper Down
   The Road to Ruin
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Your July 11 page-one article "Costly Advice: Wall
Streeters Helped Interco Defeat Raiders -- but at a Heavy
Price" reminded me that hardly a day goes by that you don't
report several instances of why this country is in economic
decline.
   Far too many people, far too much time and far too many
resources are devoted to innovative accounting, tax
avoidance, mergers, acquisitions and litigation. U.S.
industry is headed, in the main, by "professional" managers
who have no background in or dedication to the product or
service lines of their companies. Profit, risk aversion and
perks seem to be their foremost priorities. Meanwhile in
Europe and Japan, managers lead their companies through
technological and institutional innovations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Several years ago, Robert B. Reich characterized this
phenomenon in his book "The Next American Frontier." He
accused today's managers of having "replaced product
entrepreneurialism with paper entrepreneurialism."
   James P. Loomis
   Columbus, Ohio
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Service Corp. Stock Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   SRV T.SVK
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Service Corp. International said it will buy
back as many as an additional two million shares of its
common stock, in periodic purchases, on the open market and
through private transactions. The funeral-service concern had
about 46.8 million shares outstanding Aug. 10.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pratt &amp; Whitney Wins Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   UTX ROK DYN
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Pratt &amp; Whitney, a division of United
Technologies Corp., received a $156 million Air Force
contract for F-16 aircraft engines.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rockwell International Corp. won a $25.9 million Air Force
contract for navigational satellites.
                                                                                                       

   Dyncorp was awarded a $18.2 million Air Force contract for
jet pilot training.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TRACKING TRAVEL
   ----
   By Jonathan Dahl
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR AWAL PN FREST TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
PETROLEUM (PET)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Airlines' Fuel Bills
   May Have Mild Impact
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   AIRLINES HAVE been doing a lot of howling recently about
rising fuel costs. But a look at those costs suggests they
may not be quite so bad.
   Most carriers now are paying about 70 cents a gallon.
That's about 20% more than a month ago, but it isn't all that
high compared with what airlines have paid before. Only seven
months ago, airlines were paying 78 cents a gallon. And in
1985 -- a year in which the industry had $860 million in
profits -- airlines paid 85 cents a gallon.
   Moreover, consultants say airlines recently tried to push
through some fare increases that overcompensated for the
higher fuel costs. American Airlines, America West and Pan
American World Airways initially proposed 10% fare increases
last week. "American wants to be fair with its customers,"
the carrier said at the time. "We are especially sorry to do
this because we know that higher fares will create hardship
for many."
   Consultants say, however, that because fuel accounts for
about one-seventh of an airline's expenses, fare increases of
10% would result in revenue increases much greater than the
added cost of fuel so far. "Fuel prices may go up 20%, but
the airlines' total expenses don't go up anywhere near that
much," says Theodore Harris, chairman of Airline Industry
Resources, a consulting firm.
   At most, the industry would need fare increases of 2% to
3% to recover the added fuel costs so far, Mr. Harris
calculates. "Anything beyond that is pure profiteering," he
says.
   Airlines say the fare situation isn't that simple.
American says it can't raise foreign fares quickly to recover
higher fuel costs because such changes must be cleared by
foreign governments. Airlines add that they've already sold
many seats at prices that don't reflect higher fuel costs.
   Still, the proposed 10% fare increases didn't stick. Most
airlines now plan a 5.3% overall fuel-related increase and
are cutting some vacation fares.
                                                                                                       

   At This Carrier,
   The Green Eyes Have It
                                                                                                       

   GREENAIR, a carrier in Turkey, has come up with an
eye-catching promotion: Women with green eyes get 50% off any
fare.
   The carrier says it's trying to promote its name and
didn't expect the huge response it's received. Green-eyed
women are supposed to be rare in Turkey, but hundreds have
used the discount. "Maybe a lot of them are wearing green
contact lenses," says Besim Tibuk, president of Net Holding
Inc., a Turkish company that jointly owns GreenAir with the
Soviet Union.
   The airline plans to offer the discount for a year. "I bet
you'd never see a U.S. airline do this," says Mr. Tibuk, who
has brown eyes.
   Though extreme, the green-eyed discount points up how
foreign carriers are becoming more innovative in discounting
-- in contrast to U.S. carriers, which long ago abandoned the
"peanut" fares offered in the early '80s.
   Air France recently offered a two-for-one deal on flights
from Newark, N.J., to Paris. To celebrate New Year's, Virgin
Atlantic Airways usually comes up with a bargain New
York-London fare. (In 1989, the fare was $89 one way; in
1990, $99.) Several other carriers, including Icelandair and
British Airways, periodically offer last-minute fares that
can be more than 50% below full coach fares.
                                                                                                       

   Travel Dollars Visit
   Out-of-the-Way Spots
                                                                                                       

   MUCH OF THE MONEY people spend on travel doesn't go into
their trips.
   According to a Runzheimer International analysis of a
typical trip, 26% of every dollar spent on air fares, hotels
and car rentals is used for federal and local taxes, travel
agent commissions, credit card fees, computer reservation
system charges and freebies to large corporate clients.
   By far the biggest fee is travel agent commissions, which
absorb 13% of every travel dollar. Runzheimer also says
municipal taxes on hotels are rising rapidly. "It's much
easier for a town to raise taxes for out-of-towners than for
residents," says Ted Stephan, associate editor for Runzheimer
Report on Travel Management.
   ---
                                                                                                       

                Where Travel Dollars Go
                                                                                                       

   Assuming a traveler spends $1,562 for a three-day trip
from New York to Los Angeles (including air fare, car rental
and hotel), here's where the money goes that isn't directly
part of the travel product:
                                                                                                       

   Taxes                                    $129
   Travel agent commissions                  201
   Credit card fees                           46
   Computer transaction fees                   8
   Giveaways to travel agents
     and large customers                      23
                                                                                                       

   Source: Runzheimer International
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   IF THE CRISIS in the Persian Gulf creates world-wide
gasoline shortages, the Hyatt Lake Tahoe Resort, in Incline
Village, Nev., will be prepared. During the last energy
crunch in the '70s, the resort put in its own gasoline pumps
so it could guarantee guests a full tank to make the trip
home. The hotel chain says it kept the pumps -- just in case.
. . . The equivalent of automated bank tellers is coming to
the car rental industry. Budget Rent a Car Corp. is
experimenting with remote rental booths at such
unconventional sites as shopping malls and hotels. Customers
use a video booth to dial a reservation agent and receive a
car key. The rental car is in a nearby parking lot.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Jordanians Sign Up
   To Kill Americans
   And Die for Iraq
   ---
   A Seven-Year-Old Wearing
   A Flintstones T-Shirt Is
   On List of Ready Warriors
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   AMMAN, Jordan -- In this Arab capital, the call has gone
out: Uncle Saddam Wants You -- every last one of you.
   A stern portrait of the Iraqi president hangs on the wall
of a recruitment center, where Wael Khayyat adds his name to
the long list of Jordanians volunteering to fight with Iraq.
"I want to kill Americans and Jews," says the slim, handsome
youth, writing his name in hesitant script. In the space
marked "year of birth," he enters 1983. Actually, he says
proudly, "I am almost seven-and-a-half." His three sisters --
aged nine to 14 -- have already signed up.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While U.S. troops mobilize for deployment in Saudi Arabia,
a very different sort of call-up is taking place in Jordan.
Under the banner of a group called the Popular Front in
Support of Iraq, Jordanians are signing up in droves to fight
in the desert. Though most are young men with military
training, this week's intake includes a cane-carrying
Bedouin, a suit-clad storeowner and two teen-aged sisters
from a wealthy Amman district.
   "Today we shop," says 17-year-old Rabia Saddiq, slinging a
designer handbag over her shoulder. "Tomorrow we go to war."
   Front organizers say 80,000 have joined, which if accurate
would make it almost as large as Jordan's standing army.
While the force is at present unarmed, and no recruits have
yet gone to Iraq, the war fervor alone may eventually spell
trouble for the U.S. and Israel. In the space on the
registration form marked "other comments," Mohammed Assad
writes the Arabic word "shaheed" -- martyr. Others follow his
example, including several who say they are Palestinian
commandos trained in Lebanon.
   "I want a suicide mission," says the fiery-eyed Mr. Assad,
a mechanic and father of two. Asked if he is afraid of U.S.
forces, he says, "God has more bombs than America." Shouts
another man: "We have all seen Vietnam movies. These
Americans can't stand the heat."
   Many would-be warriors are camping out at recruitment
centers in the hopes that orders and uniforms will be
distributed. One impatient man drove to the Iraqi border
Tuesday night, was turned back, and returned to an Amman
center, weeping and screaming, "I want to go now] I want to
die today]"
   Faisal Ibrahim appears for his daily vigil in green
fatigues, with a fresh tattoo on his arm bearing the words
"Allah and Palestine" and a ten-gallon hat on his head. "I
want to stand tall like your Mr. Reagan," says Mr. Ibrahim,
who is 25 and unemployed. "I want to stand tall for Saddam."
   This volunteerism is Jordan's most extreme symptom of
virulent anti-Americanism. In a country where both the king
and his foreign minister have American wives, and where
Little League, Boy Scouts and Pizza Hut all thrive,
demonstrators are burning U.S. flags and shopkeepers are
turning away American visitors with shouted obscenities about
George Bush.
   This bile puts King Hussein in an extremely delicate
position as he meets today with President Bush to discuss the
Gulf crisis. The King is fast losing his image as a moderate
Arab leader, and if he continues to act as an apologist for
Saddam Hussein, he risks further isolation from both the West
and Arab states such as Egypt and Saudi Arabia. Yet if he
tilts decisively toward the U.S. -- for instance, by agreeing
to immediately halt truck traffic to and from Iraq -- he
could light a domestic bonfire that would be hard to
extinguish.
   "I have never seen such collective zest in Jordan," says
Sari Nasir, a sociologist at Jordan University. Mr. Nasir
believes the volunteerism stems from a "tribal feeling" of
kinship with a neighbor under siege, coupled with deep hatred
of Israel. Jordan's population is roughly 60% Palestinian. If
shooting breaks out in the Gulf, Mr. Nasir adds, passions are
so hot that "the whole region could erupt, and God knows
where that will lead."
   Much of the Popular Front's leadership is as unaccustomed
to battle as the army's new recruits. Hastily organized 10
days ago, the Front is operating from the offices of
professional unions: lawyers, doctors, pharmacists,
engineers. Most of these white-collar radicals have little
military experience, apart from two years' mandatory army
duty, and they appear to have been a bit overwhelmed by the
response to their call for volunteers.
   Mohammed Semeih is a criminal defense lawyer and former
judge. These days, he has exchanged his black court robe for
olive-drab fatigues with epaulets, the unofficial uniform of
the popular army. "I am a lawyer, not a soldier," says the
57-year old. "But it is important that the troops see me
dressed this way."
   The army's founder, at least, is battletested. Mohammed
Rashdan is a member of the Popular Front for the Liberation
of Palestine, a radical PLO faction. He says he has taken
part in commando actions, as well as having fought with
Iraqis against Iran as part of a volunteer Jordanian brigade.
Asked his specialty, the commando-turned-lawyer smiles and
answers, "Sniper."
   According to Mr. Rashdan, the volunteer army has gathered
pledges of money and food and is ready to move as soon as the
Jordanians give permission to cross into Iraq. "We will fight
at any border," he says, sipping Turkish coffee and grinding
coral worry beads. "The Gulf, Palestine, Lebanon -- it is all
the same struggle."
   The Jordanian government has thus far treated the popular
army with benign neglect. Some analysts speculate that
officials welcome the army as a way for citizens to blow off
steam that might otherwise be directed at the government.
With unemployment running at over 15%, pro-Iraq feeling isn't
the only source of potential instability in Jordan.
   The Iraqis, for their part, haven't yet called for
reinforcements, and the popular army leader, Mr. Rashdan,
doesn't expect an Iraqi request until their own troops are
fully in place, probably in another 10 days, he says. But
Baghdad isn't exactly damping war fever. On the embassy's
front gate is a poster of a Jewish Star of David superimposed
on a U.S. flag, which is dropping bombs on a dove. The
embassy's facade is being rebuilt in a gaudy replica of
Babylon's Ishtar Gate, a reminder that Saddam Hussein regards
himself as an heir to Nebuchadnezzar, who enslaved the Jews
by the rivers of Babylon.
   Hundreds of Arabs visiting Amman have signed on with the
popular army, as well as an estimated 15,000 women and
children. Wael, the seven-year-old recruit, arrived holding
hands with his father, a schoolteacher and fellow volunteer.
The two spent the previous night on a school project: a
relief map made of cardboard and colored sponge showing
Jordan and Israel as one country, labeled Palestine. Asked
what his young child will contribute to the Arab struggle,
Mohammed Khayyat says, "Maybe he can carry water."
   Hasiba Hamdan has no such modest ambitions for her two
sons, aged five and seven. "We will all kill Americans," she
says, as her husband signs up the whole family. The
seven-year-old, wearing a Flintstones T-shirt, has no
comment, while his younger brother nuzzles sleepily against
Mrs. Hamdan's breast. Asked if the children understand what
is happening, Mrs. Hamdan responds: "It isn't important that
they understand. I will tell them what to do."
   Nor is she frightened by U.S. forces. "Americans eat so
much junk food that they are made out of candy," she says.
"They will melt in the desert before we get there."
   In contrast to Iranian zealots and Islamic fundamentalists
in Lebanon and Egypt, many of whom see themselves in a holy
war against all things Western, Jordanians direct their wrath
specifically at America (because of its unstinting support of
Israel) and to a lesser degree Britain (because of its former
colonial rule). A visitor touring Amman's souk, and
announcing himself as an American, finds some doorways
blocked as shopkeepers declare, "America not a friend
anymore," or "tell George Bush to {expletive deleted}."
Announcing himself as an Australian or Canadian, the same
visitor encounters no such hostility.
   Many Jordanians say they would welcome the arrival of
Iraqi tanks in Amman as yet another step toward unifying the
Arab nation. But such pro-Saddam sentiment hasn't yet
supplanted worship of Jordan's royal family. While
recruitment centers are plastered with pictures of the Iraqi
president, shops and streets still are filled with portraits
of the Jordanian monarch.
   An Egyptian watch seller named Mahmoud recently added
three souvenirs from Baghdad to his display: watches with
Saddam Hussein's face emblazoned on the dial. Thus far, there
haven't been any takers. But he predicts, in whispered tones,
that the Iraqi "madman" will occupy Jordan next, and then
such trinkets will sell fast.
   "I just hope," he says, smiling wanly, "that I am not here
when it happens."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CCNB Acquisition Pact Ended
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   CCNC HMSD
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIDDLETOWN, Pa. -- CCNB Corp. and Homestead Holding Corp.
said they terminated a previously announced proposal for CCNB
to acquire Homestead Holding in an exchange of stock valued
at $17.9 million.
   The proposed acquisition was terminated after CCNB
requested on July 17 to renegotiate the $15.48 a share price
it offered last June in a letter of intent to acquire
Homestead Holding. Under terms of the proposal, each share of
Homestead Holding would have been exchanged for 0.86 share of
CCNB. Homestead Holding is the parent company of
Middletown-based Homestead Savings Association. CCNB, New
Cumberland, Pa., is the holding company for CCNB Bank,
Gettysburg National Bank and Parent Federal Savings Bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Art Is in the Eye
   Of the Art Experts
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   My thanks to Jack Flam for speaking the embarrassing truth
about art as we approach the turn of this century and as I
unrelentingly struggle to experience whatever it is displayed
in galleries across the nation ("Mixed-Up-Media: The Same New
Thing," Leisure &amp; Arts, July 25). To my dismay, I see this
trend taken to the Biennale and I continue to find myself at
the mercy of those with the power to honor and display what I
consider mediocrities.
   It seems that even the "shocking" pieces, monotonic in
their effect, fail in their alleged purpose as they move ever
closer to the saturated categories of violence and
pornography.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Are art experts playing the part of a Hans Christian
Anderson character, convincing themselves that these are
works of substance? And am I to feel the guilt of an honest
commoner as I am instructed to revise my understanding of
what art is?
   Perhaps the Biennale should return to the noncompetitive
symposium it was in 1972. Only then might we be spared a
"mindless repetition" of Biennale 1990 in the years to come.
   Stacie A. Krafczek
   Sturgis, Mich.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Beware Congress's
   Disarming Character
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   Your July 30 editorial "Defense in Free Fall" should be
mandatory reading for every American voter. Without emotion
you have focused on the key issue: Will America allow itself
to be disarmed by Congress as it did after World War I, World
War II, Korea and Vietnam?
   As you pointed out, the country can afford to have a
national defense posture that will allow it to influence
world events in the future. The president's proposed budget
will bring military spending as a percentage of the GNP down
below what it was prior to World War II and will reach that
point through a logical, responsible drawdown. Within his
proposed budget is the B-2 Stealth bomber, which is
affordable and is a necessity for strategic deterrence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I find it appalling that the House Armed Services
Committee voted to kill the B-2. I have confidence that the
Senate and, it is hoped, the full House, will support the
B-2. The country should be concerned about the possible
irreparable damage to our nuclear deterrent force as well as
our total military posture.
   John T. Chain Jr.
   General, USAF
   Commander in Chief
   Strategic Air Command
   Omaha, Neb.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   On-Line Software International
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OSI
</CO>
<LP>
   FORT LEE, N.J. -- On-Line Software International Inc.'s
board approved a measure designed to make hostile takeovers
prohibitively expensive.
   The computer software and services company will distribute
rights to buy preferred stock to holders of common shares on
Sept. 6. Under certain circumstances, the rights allow the
holders to buy shares of On-Line or its buyer at half price.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokeswoman said the board, which announced the action
Tuesday, knows of no attempts to take control of On-Line
Software.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
On-Line shares closed at $7 a share, up 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Robert L. Muller
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MDEST JAPAN FREST C.NOK U.JSG AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   EC'S MIDDLE EAST TIES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Worried that Western intervention against Iraq is stirring
up Arab nationalism and support for Saddam Hussein, the
European Community is trying to strengthen its ties to the
Middle East.
   EC foreign ministers said they are ready to extend more
aid to Jordan, where a large percentage of the population
supports Iraq in the current crisis. In a bid to maintain
good relations with the nation, the EC has reminded Jordan
that it is entitled to EC subsidies and loans under a
cooperation accord covering the years 1987 to 1992.
   Egypt also could be a recipient of increased EC aid,
sources said.
   The Italian, Irish and Luxembourg foreign ministers --
along with EC Commissioner Abel Matutes, who is in charge of
EC Mediterranean policy -- are on a mission to Cairo, Amman
and Riyadh. Mr. Matutes could obtain the political backing he
has long sought for more EC help for the Mideast and North
Africa.
   "We should avoid giving the impression that we are against
the Arab world," said one high official of the commission.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN'S POPULATION GROWTH SLIPS
                                                                                                       

   Japan posted its lowest annual population growth rate
since a government survey began in 1968, the Home Affairs
Ministry reported. The increasing role of women in the work
place and the high cost of educating children were major
reasons for the sluggish 0.33% annual growth rate, an
official said. The lowest previous rate was 0.38% in 1989,
and the high was 2.22% in 1973. The latest report, for the
year ended March 31, listed Japan's population at 122.7
million.
                                                                                                       

   DISEASE ON THE DON

   Seven people fell ill with cholera in southern Russia
along the Don River, apparently the result of raw sewage
flowing into the waterway, the Communist Party newspaper
Pravda reported. The seven were stricken in the community of
Koluzaevo, near the city of Rostov, about 600 miles south of
Moscow. The paper said about 2.8 million cubic feet of raw
sewage is pumped daily into the Temernik River, a tributary
of the Don, causing bacterial levels to increase up to 100
times more than the permissible level.
                                                                                                       

   CULL OF THE WILD
                                                                                                       

   Australia should turn wild camels and donkeys into steaks
to get rid of some of the millions of feral animals -- 26
species of them, including horses, goats, pigs and cats --
that are overrunning the continent, an official report
recommended. "The great isolated continent of marsupials has
been invaded," said the Bureau of Rural Resources, calling
for increased culling of the descendants of escaped or freed
pets and stock of the Europeans who first settled Australia
200 years ago. There is a large market for donkey meat in
Europe and China, and if stronger demand for camel meat
developed, camels could be farmed commercially, the report
said.
                                                                                                       

   NO PLACE FOR HITLER
                                                                                                       

   Potsdam, East Germany, stripped Adolf Hitler of his
honorary citizenship, more than 45 years after the Nazi
dictator's death. Potsdam officials also revoked the honorary
citizenship of Hermann Goering, the Nazi official who
directed Hitler's air war against the Allies. Potsdam
officials made Hitler an honorary citizen in March 1933, an
action mirrored in dozens of other German cities. In 1988,
when officials discovered they hadn't revoked the honor, they
hushed up the oversight to avoid the wrath of hard-line
Communists.
                                                                                                       

   FINNISH VENTURE IN IRELAND
                                                                                                       

   Nokia Oy AB, a Finnish manufacturer, will link up with
Jefferson Smurfit PLC, of Ireland to sell Nokia products in
Ireland. Nokia, whose consumer-electronics division is
Europe's third-largest maker of television sets, said the
marketing pact covers TV sets, video recorders, satellite
equipment and audio products. Smurfit, a paper, packaging and
financial-services group, is Ireland's largest industrial
company.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH AFRICA-MADAGASCAR LINK
                                                                                                       

   South Africa repaired a 15-year breach with Madagascar and
established trade and transport links with the staunchly
anti-apartheid Indian Ocean island.
   South African President F.W. de Klerk and President Didier
Ratsiraka of Madagascar sealed a trade pact under which the
two nations will explore cooperation in areas ranging from
agriculture and finance and banking to travel and tourism.
   Mr. Ratsiraka said Mr. De Klerk's visit, the first by a
South African head of state to the world's fourth-largest
island, was made possible by political reforms in South
Africa.
   The Madagascan president said in April that he would
restore economic ties with Pretoria, but that full diplomatic
relations would be established only when apartheid had been
fully dismantled.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Doctors in Bangladesh called off a 19-day nationwide
strike after the government promised to review a ban on
private practice. Hundreds of patients were reported to have
died from lack of care during the strike by the country's
8,000 doctors. . . . Bishops of the Anglican Church in Uganda
have voted to accept the ordination of women priests, the New
Vision newspaper reported. The church, established in Uganda
by British missionaries 110 years ago, has a current
estimated membership of about five million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Overwrought Thought
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   So many things are mind-boggling these days,
   Awe-inspiring and up-dated,
   That I do a lot of soul-searching to keep
   From becoming over-hyphen-ated.
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   ---
   Status Sleeper?
                                                                                                       

   Psychological inertia
   Is a phrase that suits me fine.
   It's nice to have my laziness
   Euphemistically defined.
   -- Mary McNorton.
   ---
   Daffynition
                                                                                                       

   Courtships: suits of amour.
   -- Lakenan Barnes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP AEGNY HI SCE CMB FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report.
                                                                                                       

                        CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Household Finance Corp. -- $150 million of 9% senior notes
due Sept. 1, 1995, priced at 99.80 to yield 9.05%. The
non-callable notes were priced at a spread of 72 basis points
above the Treasury's five-year note. Rated single-A-2 by
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and single-A-plus by Standard
&amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold through underwriters
led by Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Southern California Edison Co. -- $100 million of 8 1/4%
first and refunding mortgage bonds due Aug. 15, 1993,
reoffered via a group led by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. at 99.80 to
yield 8.325%. The bonds, which are non-callable, were priced
at 25 basis points above the Treasury's three-year note. The
issue is rated double-A-2 by Moody's and double-A by S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

   Tennessee Housing Development Agency -- $78.6 million of
single-family mortgage revenue bonds, via a Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets group. The bonds, rated single-A by Moody's,
were priced at par. Serial bonds yield from 6.20% in 1992 to
7.40% in 2005. There are term bonds yielding 7 1/2% due in
2010 and 7 5/8% due in 2022.
                                                                                                       

                         MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Chase Mortgage Finance -- $111 million of 9.35% Remic
mortgage securities offered in four classes by Greenwich
Capital Markets Inc. The offering, Series 1990-D, is backed
by whole loans with a weighted average coupon rate of 10.93%
and weighted average remaining term to maturity of 27.5
years.. Prices range from 82.03125 for the accrual class with
an average life of 18.11 years to 100.0625 for the class with
an average life of 3.39 years. The issue is rated double-A-2
by S&amp;P and double-A by Moody's.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   State Bank of New South Wales (Australia) -- 100 million
Australian dollars of 14 1/4% Eurobonds due Sept. 12, 1994,
priced at 101 1/8 for a yield less fees of 14.47% via
Deutsche Bank Capital Markets Ltd. Guaranteed by the
government of New South Wales. Fees 1 3/4.
   Aegon N.V. (Netherlands) -- 100 million guilders of bonds
due Oct. 1, 1997, priced at 101.15 via Rabobank Nederland.
Coupon 10% for first two years and 16 3/4% less the 12-month
Amsterdam interbank offered rate for the final five years.
Investor guaranteed a minimum return of 4 1/2%. Fees 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Silicon Valley Group Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SVGI
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SILICON VALLEY GROUP Inc., San Jose, Calif., said it filed
a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission for a proposed public offering next month of three
million common shares, including 2.4 million in the U.S. and
600,000 abroad. The semiconductor processing equipment maker
said it plans to use about half of the proceeds to retire
debt incurred in its May 1990 acquisition of the Optical
Lithography operations of Perkin-Elmer Corp., and to use the
balance for working capital. The U.S. offering will be
managed by Prudential-Bache Capital Funding, Montgomery
Securities and Cowen & Co.; the international offering by
Prudential-Bache Securities (UK) Inc., Montgomery Securities
and Cowen. Silicon Valley Group was at the center of an
international dispute earlier this year, when its bid for the
Perkin-Elmer unit blocked the unit's sale to Nikon Corp. of
Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Moody's Cuts Ratings
   On Long-Term Debt
   Of First City Bancorp
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   FBT
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it
downgraded its long-term debt ratings of First City Bancorp
of Texas, citing the bank holding company's exposure to the
weak Texas real-estate market.
   The investment rating service also downgraded its rating
for long-term deposits at the company's lead bank, First
City, Texas-Houston N.A., for the same reason.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   First City said management "strongly disagrees" with the
move and "has a far more positive view of the improving Texas
economy and its impact on First City's real-estate
portfolio."
   Moody's, while acknowledging "some improvement" in Texas
real estate, said the large real-estate portfolio in
Collecting Bank, a separate entity set up by First City
Bancorp to liquidate problem loans, as well as the
real-estate holdings of the lead bank, "could require
substantial further provisioning and may make it difficult to
establish an ongoing earnings stream."
   The changes, affecting about $353 million of debt, lowered
the holding company's senior obligations to Ba-2 from Ba-1;
subordinated obligations to Ba-3 from Ba-2; and senior
preferred stock to Ba-3 from Ba-2. Moody's confirmed the
company's commercial paper rating at Not Prime.
   Meanwhile, the rating of the lead bank's long-term
deposits fell to Baa-3 from Baa-2, while the rating for
short-term deposits was confirmed at Prime-3, Moody's said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   TV Preview: Canine Conservation, Seductive Short Stories
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Thursday, Aug. 16, 10:30-11 p.m. EDT, on PBS (PBS air
dates and times vary so check local listings): "Best
Friends," a tart drama of adultery built around an encounter
between a mistress and a poisonously understanding wife. If
the playlet is slight, and it is, the players and the
dialogue are sharp, and even daring in a civilized way.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Friday, Aug. 17, 7-8:33 p.m. EDT., on The Disney Channel:
"The Little Kidnappers," the story of two orphaned Scottish
boys sent to live with their embittered grandfather. If that
outline sounds like a sentimental children's story, that's
exactly what this is, but forebodings are unnecessary. There
is such a thing as high-class sentimentality and that too is
what this is. Charlton Heston plays the dour grandfather to
the two Scottish lads.
                                                                                                       

   Sunday, Aug. 19, 8-9 p.m. EDT, on PBS: "Wolves," a
National Audobon Society Special, narrated by Robert Redford.
The first part chronicles the depressing story of the wolf's
near total extermination in the U.S., thanks to the bounty
hunters, trappers and poisoners who spread strychnine in wolf
habitats. Less than 1% of our wolf population survives, most
of it in the forests of Northern Minnesota, the documentary
reveals. This occasionally talky but absorbing hour will
increase the number of wolf fans, of which there are
doubtless not yet a great number in the world. One of the
film's most memorable moments is the sight of a bunch of
young red wolf pups, nurtured in the conservationists'
breeding pens, taking their first uncertain steps into the
wild.
                                                                                                       

   Sunday, Aug. 19, 9-10:30 p.m. EDT, on HBO: "Women and Men:
Stories of Seduction," a trilogy of dramatized short stories.
The best by far is "The Man in the Brooks Brothers Suit," the
Mary McCarthy story about a young woman journalist, a '30s
radical, who meets a married businessman with nothing but
scorn for her political opinions. In the course of their
encounter aboard a train, the virile and forthright
businessman succeeds not only in bedding the arrogant radical
but also destroys her regard for her radical bohemian fiance.
Mary McCarthy, of course, was writing in that blessed era
when you still could count on a businessman to proselytize
for greed and personal hygiene, whereas now, some of the
foremost fans of bohemianism can be found in executive
suites. Elizabeth McGovern is thoroughly convincing as the
young woman, and Beau Bridges is even better as the anchored
banker. It helps, of course, that this is based on a superior
piece of fiction, but that can't be said of "Dusk Before
Fireworks," Dorothy Parker's flapper-age tale of a gigolo and
a lady. Splendid period costumes and sets, alas, are not
enough. The female lead, young, pouty Molly Ringwald, is so
unalterably a creature of her time, that to see her struggle
with the dialogue and style meant for a hot number from the
'20s is a sight almost too cruel to be borne. "Hills Like
White Elephants," a Hemingway story about an imminent
abortion, stars Melanie Griffith, a top hand at inarticulate
sulking, and James Woods, of whom likewise. Both do capital
jobs portraying lovers at the end of the same tether.
                                                                                                       

   Wednesday, Aug. 22, 9:30-10 p.m. EDT, on NBC: "Working It
Out," part of NBC's effort to build an early audience for its
new fall series. This one, starring Jane Curtin, is about the
adventures of the formerly married, as they search for love
and try to nurture mouthy children. If this sounds familiar
it is because you have seen all this before in, among other
series, "Kate and Allie," also starring Jane Curtin. It looks
as though Ms. Curtin's considerable comedic gifts will carry
this series as well. In the first episode, the divorcee in
question attends a cooking class, where she meets a divorced
man also on the prowl while both of them pretend to prepare
pasta from scratch. Any team of actors and scriptwriters who
could extrude something appealing from this weary mess of
sitcom ingredients, as this crowd seems to have done,
deserves a commendation.
                                                                                                       

   Friday, Aug. 24, 9-10 p.m. EDT, on PBS: "Evening at Pops,"
a musical theater special featuring the songs of Jerome Kern,
Richard Rodgers, Cole Porter and others. The special part is
that all the songs are offered in their original
arrangements. You won't believe how good Irving Caesar and
Vincent Youmans's "Tea for Two" can sound when played the way
they wrote it. Jerome Kern's "They Didn't Believe Me,"
rendered as it first was for the stage, has a beauty most of
the audience will not have heard before. Then there is David
Gaines's version of "Night and Day." It was nice to see that
among the audience enjoying this glorious sound were numbers
of young children whose eardrums evidently have not yet been
perforated by rock music.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Viewpoint:
   Iraq and `The Last Temptation' of George Bush
   ----
   By Alexander Cockburn
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   In times like these memory is the first casualty. No harm
then in pausing for a moment to look back at history as old
as a day, a week, even three months.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Did the Gulf States declare economic war on Iraq, thus
provoking Saddam Hussein's subsequent military invasion?
   In the London Financial Times for Aug. 8, Lamis Andoni
reported from Amman that at the emergency Arab summit in
Baghdad in May, both Jordanian and Iraqi officials argued
that Kuwait's insistence on boosting oil production above
OPEC guidelines was part of the Gulf States' attempt to
undermine Iraq's emergence as the major regional power. King
Hussein's concerns were further heightened by indifference to
his pleas that Jordan's existence was endangered unless more
political and financial aid was forthcoming from the Gulf
States.
   "Some Jordanian politicians also believe that {King}
Hussein has given up the idea of receiving any serious
American backing," Mr. Andoni wrote. "`We would not be very
surprised if some circles in Washington pushed for
sacrificing Jordan if necessary to ensure Israel's stability
and security,' a former Jordanian minister said in reference
to widespread speculation in Amman that the U.S. might
concede to Israeli extremist calls for the transformation of
Jordan into a substitute homeland for the Palestinians."
   At the OPEC meeting in Geneva in July, Saddam Hussein said
that every dollar off the price of oil cost Iraq $1 billion
annually. Iran was being similarly injured by the
overproduction by Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. Even
Saudi Arabia added its voice to Iraq's and Iran's protests.
Why then did Kuwait push ahead with overproduction despite
Iraq's increasingly threatening posture?
                                                                                                       

   Is Saddam a monstrous tyrant, and if so, how did he get
that way?
   He certainly is a monstrous tyrant, and the parallels with
Hitler are not entirely misplaced. Iraq has long had one of
the most appalling human-rights records in the world. In
1985, Amnesty International reported that 300 children, aged
10 to 14, had been tortured to extract information about the
activities of their relatives. Two years later the bodies of
29 youths, arrested in 1985, were returned to their parents
bearing the marks of their interrogation. Mass executions of
civilians have been frequent. In December 1987, some Kurds
were killed with thallium, a rat poison. In 1988, around
6,000 civilians, many of them Kurds, were killed in
chemical-weapon attacks.
   Yes, the U.S. helped Saddam become the leader he is today,
even leaving aside the belief of many in the Middle East that
the CIA assisted Saddam's Baath Party in seizing control in
1963, giving it lists of communists who were then murdered.
   To help Saddam win his eight-year war against Iran, the
U.S. gave him satellite intelligence, helicopters,
agricultural credits and naval protection in the Gulf. The
reason that a U.S. Navy vessel, the Vincennes, was able to
shoot down an Iranian civilian Airbus filled with innocent
people, is that it was in the Gulf aiding Iraq.
   The U.S. supported Iraq in this fashion, though perfectly
aware of Saddam's abominations, as were the French, who lent
him fighter-bombers, the Germans, who made him mustard gas,
and the British, with whom he was a major trading partner. On
March 7, the U.N. Commission on Human Rights, in which the
U.S. is very influential, decided not to take action on a
draft to bring human-rights violations in Iraq before it,
despite a mass of information provided by Amnesty
International.
   On July 29, the U.S. assistant secretary of state for Near
Eastern affairs, Richard Murphy, was asked by the
International Herald Tribune whether he thought Saddam
resembled Hitler. Mr. Murphy thought the comparison "far too
glib" and said Saddam was "a rough, direct-talking leader."
                                                                                                       

   Is the U.S.'s sudden discovery of the virtues of the U.N.
and of collective sanctions via the Security Council
hypocritical?
   Very much so. If the U.S. truly adhered to the principle
enunciated by George Bush that "the acquisition of territory
by force is unacceptable," then its behavior in recent years
would have been very different. It would have exerted itself
in the U.N. Security Council to condemn Israel, which
continues to occupy and settle the Jordanian (Palestinian),
Syrian and Lebanese territories it seized in 1967, 1973 and
1982. It would not have been complaisant to Turkey's
occupation of northern Cyprus, seized in 1974. It would have
condemned Iraq's invasion of Iran in 1980. In that instance,
the Security Council did nothing for two weeks and then, when
Iraq was 40 miles inside Iranian territory, called for a
"cease-fire in place."
   If the U.S. was truly principled in opposing aggression
against small nations and interference in their affairs it
wouldn't have attacked Cuba, Grenada, Nicaragua, Libya and
Panama. It wouldn't have sponsored attacks on Angola and
Mozambique or encouraged Indonesia's occupation of and
genocide in East Timor. It wouldn't have sanctioned Israel's
occupation of Lebanon, the West Bank and Gaza.
   T.S. Eliot wrote, in "Murder in the Cathedral," that "The
last temptation is the greatest treason:/To do the right deed
for the wrong reason." It was right to organize a collective
response under U.N. auspices against Saddam's takeover of
Kuwait, but justice is compromised and degraded if it is not
evenhanded, and perceived by everybody to be so.
   The average "Arab in the street" is well aware of the lack
of evenhandedness and principle. The U.S. wants oil on its
terms, not Iraq's. As Robert Fisk of The Independent, in
London, wrote recently, "Oil decides. If Saudi Arabia were
just tens of thousands of miles of sandtrap, its people
living in abject poverty, its demands a drain on the world's
generosity, not a single American soldier would be deployed
in the area, whatever Iraq's ambitions."
   To the disgust of most Americans and the immense joy of
Israel, many Palestinians openly support Saddam. There's
tragedy here, because Palestinians know better than most the
nature of Saddam, since their PLO leaders were long the
targets of terror and assassinations instigated by him. They
were comparing him to Hitler a decade ago, when the U.S. saw
him as the bulwark against Iran.
   But just as many Palestinians in the occupied territories
see their future as a U.S.-sponsored catastrophe and probable
eviction into Jordan, they and fellow Arabs see the actions
today of the U.S. and its allies as the most coarsened
realpolitik. So they turn in support of the opposing coarse
real-politicker, Saddam, who had a point when he said that
Iraq would withdraw from Kuwait if Israel withdrew from the
territories and from Lebanon, and if Syria likewise withdrew
from Lebanon.
   The U.S. dismissed this negotiating posture as
"irrelevant," but Saddam's points are not irrelevant at all,
because for the United States to use the U.N. and the
Security Council as a club only against Iraq and then revert
to the contemptuous indifference of the past 20 years would
be to deal the institution a irreparable blow in the eyes of
the rest of the world.
   ---
   Mr. Cockburn is a columnist for The Nation and the
Anderson Valley (Calif.) Advertiser.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cable Applications Inc.
   Says 2 Officials Quit
   And Auditors Resign
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CBLEE WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GARDEN CITY, N.Y. -- Cable Applications Inc. said that
Richard Capaldo, chairman and president, and Vincent Cestaro,
vice president, resigned their executive posts and
directorships.
   The company also said its auditors, Margolin, Winer &amp;
Evens, had resigned. The auditor resigned, Cable Applications
said, because the company failed to file certain tax returns
and lacked supporting data for some expense reimbursements
and other matters. The auditors thus found it difficult to
confirm certain potential liabilities, Cable Applications
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cable Applications said it has taken steps including the
appointment of a financial consultant to monitor operations
and expenditures. Cable Applications supplies temporary
technical personnel to aerospace and other firms and installs
cable used in various telecommunications applications.
   Messrs. Capaldo and Cestaro couldn't be reached for
comment. Cable Applications said Mr. Capaldo will continue to
assist the company in its telecommunications-installation
segment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National City Unit
   Gets Insurance Award
   Totaling $21.7 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   NCC AET CB
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- National City Corp. said a subsidiary, First
National Bank of Louisville, was awarded a judgment of $21.7
million, plus interest, against insurance companies that
provided coverage for employee fraud.
   The Federal District Court in New Orleans instructed Aetna
Casualty &amp; Surety Co., a unit of Aetna Life &amp; Casualty Co.,
Hartford, Conn., and the Chubb Group of Insurance Cos.,
Warren, N.J., to pay the sum to First National Bank of
Louisville under blanket bond policies. The judgment, which
is subject to appeal, is for the full amount of the insurance
coverage purchased by the bank, National City said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   First National filed the claim to recover a portion of its
losses on eight loans totaling $30 million that the bank made
in 1985 and 1986. The bank said Kevin L. DeWitt, then a loan
officer in the bank's real estate loan department, falsified
credit information and other documents, leading the bank to
make loans to borrowers who weren't creditworthy. The bank
said it was able to prove that Mr. DeWitt received at least
$40,000 for his help in arranging the loans.
   Mr. DeWitt last February pleaded guilty to felony charges
of falsifying bank documents, but withdrew his plea when a
U.S. district judge in Louisville refused to accept a plea
bargain that the judge said was too lenient. Mr. DeWitt, who
is awaiting trial on those charges, couldn't be reached for
comment. His attorney declined to comment.
   Aetna said it hasn't decided whether to appeal the
judgment, and attorneys for Chubb couldn't be reached.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Marsh &amp; McLennan
   Realigns Reinsurance
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   MMC
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Marsh &amp; McLennan Cos., one of the world's
largest insurance brokers, said it will place all of its
world-wide reinsurance brokerage operations under its Guy
Carpenter &amp; Co. subsidiary.
   Marsh &amp; McLennan said Richard H. Blum, president of Guy
Carpenter, will become chairman of the unit, which will split
reinsurance responsibilities between the New York and London
offices. Reinsurance is the assumption by an insurance
company of all or part of a risk initially undertaken by
another insurer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This new structure will ensure that all of our global and
local expertise and resources are available to existing and
prospective clients everywhere in the world," Mr. Blum said.
   A New York operating committee will handle reinsurance
business in the U.S. and Canada, and a London-based operating
committee will handle that elsewhere in the world.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thomson Corp. Picks
   Hall as Chief Executive
   Of Publishing Group
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.TOC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Robert Hall was named to succeed Robert Jachino
as chief executive officer of Thomson Corp.'s specialized
publishing group, which last year accounted for 39% of
Thomson's $5.11 billion sales and 50.5% of its operating
profit.
   Mr. Jachino, 56 years old, who also is an executive vice
president of Thomson, said in a statement that he planned to
give up his executive positions next Jan. 1, to spend more
time with his family. He will continue as non-executive
chairman of the group, which produces a wide range of
specialized publications in printed and electronic forms.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thomson said Mr. Hall, 59 years old, also will succeed Mr.
Jachino Jan. 1 as a Thomson director. In the meantime, Mr.
Hall will become chief operating officer of the group Sept.
1. Mr. Hall currently is chief executive officer of Thomson
Financial Services, which publishes financial information.
   Thomson also publishes U.S. and Canadian newspapers and
operates a leisure travel business in Britain.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   If You Don't Like
   Your Annuity,
   Switch Insurers
   ----
   By Ellen E. Shultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   In many investors' minds, buying an annuity is like
getting married to the mob: Even if you're miserable with the
arrangement, you can't get out until you die.
   It isn't surprising investors feel this way. Annuities are
tax-deferred retirement accounts, much like individual
retirement accounts. Like IRAs, there are penalties for
taking the money out early. The insurance companies that
underwrite annuities usually impose stiff surrender
penaltiestypically 7% in the first year, declining by one
percentage point a year over seven years or so. The federal
government imposes a 10% penalty, plus taxes, on money
withdrawn before age 59 1/2.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But this doesn't always mean that investors have to be
locked into an annuity they don't like. While the surrender
penalties may encourage investors to stay put for several
years, investors can avoid federal penalties by transferring
their money into another annuity.
   "You can move annuities the same way you move an IRA,"
says Glenn Daily, an insurance consultant in New York. The
procedure is simple. Investors merely fill out a "1035
exchange" form (named for the applicable section of the Tax
Code on which it's based), and give it to the insurer they
want to deal with in the future. The new company will arrange
the transfer.
   Since the money never leaves the insurers' hands, it isn't
subject to federal penalties. "I'm surprised more people
don't do this," says Mr. Daily.
   One reason annuity investors might want to switch is poor
performance. That's apt to be a particular concern of
investors in "fixed-rate annuities," which usually pay a rate
that's close to that of a certificate of deposit.
   To entice new investors, many insurers offer a high
initial rate, which is guaranteed only for the first year or
so. Thereafter, the rate investors get is reset annually-at
the discretion of the insurer. "They promise you a rate for
one year, then you're at their mercy," says James Hunt, a
director of the National Insurance Consumers Organization in
Alexandria, Va.
   Investors who find that their renewal rates have fallen
greatly may choose to switch to an issuer with higher rates
and a good record of keeping the renewal rates high.
   Another reason investors transfer their annuities is to
get a higher level of guaranteed death benefit. Most
annuities guarantee that if the annuity holder dies, the
heirs receive either the principal sum invested, or the
market value, whichever is higher. Most annuity investors are
quite happy knowing that their heirs would receive the higher
amount.
   But there are circumstances that could reduce the value of
an annuity between now and the time the annuity holder dies
-- especially if the annuity held is a "variable annuity."
Much like mutual funds, variable annuities allow investors to
allocate their money among a variety of funds, including
stock, bond and money-market funds. Returns vary with the
performance of these underlying funds. So does the value of
the annuity.
   Investors who want to lock in the current value of their
annuities can do so by switching to another company. That
way, the current value becomes the new floor, says Geoff
Bobroff, an annuity specialist with Lipper Analytical
Services Inc.
   A third reason investors might consider transferring an
annuity is uneasiness over the financial soundness of the
issuer. Take Gerald D. Jacobs, a retired Pacific Bell manager
living in Corona, Calif. Eight years ago, he bought a
fixed-annuity issued by Executive Life Insurance Co. of Los
Angeles.
   Now, after reading news accounts of the financial problems
facing Executive Life's parent, First Executive Corp. of Los
Angeles, Mr. Jacobs says he wants to switch. First Executive
has insisted that policyholders have no cause for concern.
Still, many people like Mr. Jacobs have already pulled out.
This week, First Executive disclosed in a Securities and
Exchange Commission filing that investors redeemed $2.24
billion in annuities in the first six months of 1990.
   Before moving their money, however, investors must
identify appropriate alternative annuities. "You don't want
to make the same mistakes you made last time," says Mr.
Daily, author of the Individual Investor's Guide to Low-Load
Insurance Products.
   Mr. Jacobs is doing just that. To address his concerns
about financial soundness, he's looking for an issuer with a
high credit rating from A.M. Best Co. and from Standard &amp;
Poor's Corp.
   Once investors initiate a transfer, the process may take
several weeks, during which time investors forgo interest
payments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Primerica Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   PA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PRIMERICA Corp. (New York) -- Donald R. Cooper was named
chairman and chief executive officer of Massachusetts
Indemnity &amp; Life Insurance Co., a unit of this financial
services company. Mr. Cooper, 46 years old, succeeds J.
Treacy Beyer, 50, who will continue as chairman and chief
executive officer of A.L. Williams Corp., a sales and
marketing unit that distributes term life insurance
underwritten by Massachusetts Indemnity. Both units are based
in Duluth, Ga.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Foreign Insight:
   Kohl Is Willing to Order Ships to Gulf,
   Signaling Readiness for New World Role
   ----
   By Frederick Kempe
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BERLIN -- West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, increasingly
at ease with his nation's new political clout, is willing to
send German ships to a trouble zone for the first time since
World War II to help settle the Mideast crisis, a senior
government official said.
   Mr. Kohl privately told Italian leader Giulio Andreotti by
telephone that he would be willing to send five West German
minesweepers to the Persian Gulf, but only as part of an
international fleet that would be approved at next Tuesday's
meeting of the West European Union.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Bonn government has already dispatched the ships to
the eastern Mediterranean, replacing North Atlantic Treaty
Organization ships sent to the gulf in response to Iraq's
invasion of Kuwait.
   But Mr. Kohl's apparent willingness to go even further
underlines Germany's readiness to play a more active world
role, a readiness that is likely to increase after East and
West Germany's scheduled unification late this year.
   "We are the largest country in Western Europe, and we
believe we have to join the common solidarity of the Western
world" regarding Iraq, says Horst Teltschik, Mr. Kohl's
national security adviser.
   Mr. Teltschik wouldn't comment on what he called the
"theoretical possibilities" of sending the minesweepers into
the gulf, an act that would be expected to encounter
political opposition as well as constitutional impediments to
the use of German troops outside the territory of NATO. But
he said, "We have to prove the possibilities of what we can
do more than ever before because of the expectations of the
international community."
   A year ago, Bonn would have faced a storm of internal
opposition for actions it has already taken: allowing the
U.S. to deploy forces to the gulf from German bases,
deploying its own ships and joining the sanctions imposed on
Iraq after its Aug. 2 invasion. But sending forces to a
potential war zone is a far more sensitive matter in Germany,
and Mr. Kohl might not be able to pull it off.
   His own foreign minister, Hans Dietrich Genscher, says he
believes the country's constitution forbids it. The
opposition Social Democratic Party's contingent in the
Bundestag is likely next week to oppose any such deployment
but at the same time suggest a change in the constitution
that would allow German troops to be used outside NATO's
territory as part of a United Nations contingent.
   No matter what becomes of the minesweepers, however, the
decision marks the growing pains of a new political power.
The Soviet Union and Eastern Europe turn to West Germany
first for economic assistance, the U.S. leans on it to rally
European support for Washington's actions, and Germany itself
is increasingly unmatched in political and economic power in
Europe.
   Most of all, Germany's attitude has changed. After years
of being psychologically and politically handicapped by its
militaristic past and the resulting postwar division of the
nation, it has become more willing to stand up for its
national goals.
   "Germany is going to be a more prickly country when she
defends her interests," says Thomas Kielinger, editor of the
West German weekly Rheinischer Merkur. "We will be less meek,
less like a lamb, more assertive -- not domineering, but in a
natural sense."
   But where Germany's increased influence can be best
measured isn't in the gulf but in Eastern Europe, where its
formerly Communist neighbors are all seeking help. Here, Bonn
is held back only by its unfamiliarity with its new role and
by fiscal limitations imposed by the cost of absorbing East
Germany.
   "The role that Germany is playing in the world has a new
quality," Mr. Teltschik says. "The problem is that most
Germans haven't recognized it yet. We must take more
responsibility ourselves. The world expects more of us.
However, we are of the opinion that the expectations are too
great. World-wide, people expect we can finance everything.
We just don't have the economic and financial resources to
meet those expectations."
   That said, Germany has seldom been so well positioned
economically. In the first quarter alone, it was able to
expand its exports by 18% to nearly $100 billion and surpass
the U.S. as the world's largest exporter. After unification,
which will ultimately expand the country's potential by 25%,
experts say the country could hold onto that position for
years. West Germany's trade surplus in the first quarter was
nearly double that of Japan's at $22 billion.
   Some officials say Mr. Kohl is using his minesweepers less
to flex muscle and more to pay a debt to President Bush for
his support of German unification. "There isn't a political
debt, but a moral and political obligation," Mr. Teltschik
says. "The Americans have shown strong solidarity for the
Germans not just during the last year, but over the last 40
years. Now we can't say it doesn't matter."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Judge in Drexel Bankruptcy Case
   Faults Lawyers and Cuts Fees 14%
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   HSN ED WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge harshly criticized lawyers working on the
Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc. bankruptcy case for
excessive legal bills in the first three months of the case
and cut their requested fees by about 14%.
   U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Howard Buschman III said he
was reducing the fees to send a message to lawyers for Drexel
and its creditors. "I can appreciate the fact that at one
time Drexel was a money-machine, but in bankruptcy court you
worry more about expenses," the judge said at a hearing on
the fee requests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The judge said that because it isn't clear that all
creditors will be paid in this case, "there must be more
control here." Drexel filed for bankruptcy-court protection
Feb. 13.
   Judge Buschman approved legal fees of $2.1 million for
Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges, bankruptcy counsel for Drexel. Weil
Gotshal had requested $2.4 million in fees. The judge cut the
fee request of Jones, Day, Reavis &amp; Pogue, the law firm for
the creditors' committee, by a similar amount, to $1.9
million from $2.2 million.
   The judge approved fees of $560,000 for Milgrim Thomajan &amp;
Lee, the New York law firm for Drexel's shareholders'
committee. The law firm had requested $642,997. Milgrim began
working on the case about two months after Drexel filed for
Chapter 11 protection.
   The fee request of Cahill Gordon &amp; Reindel, special
counsel to Drexel on matters such as investigations by the
Securities and Exchange Commission and Congress, was reduced
to $90,000 from $126,492.
   The judge also ordered that a fourth of the approved
payments be withheld until the case is completed, a common
step taken in bankruptcy cases. As a result, Weil Gotshal and
Jones Day will only receive about 65% of the fees they
requested at this time.
   The total amount of approved fees, however, could be
changed when a final decision on fees is made at the end of
the bankruptcy proceedings, which is expected early next
year. As a result, the attorneys could end up with the total
they requested, although the cuts ordered by Judge Buschman
for now are likely to put pressure on the attorneys to hold
down spending.
   Paul Merolla, Drexel's general counsel, told Judge
Buschman that the company was alarmed at the total fees being
sought in the case by attorneys and other professionals, such
as accountants and financial advisers.
   "We are concerned that the professional fees in this
matter for the first year will exceed the $50 million mark,
and we believe that is a conservative estimate. . . . It's
staggering," Mr. Merolla said. "We're going down a road here
that is extremely exorbitant."
   Judge Buschman also criticized attorneys for Drexel and
the creditors' committee for some of their out-of-pocket
expenses, such as $300,000 in copying expenses. He said much
of the excess spending was caused by unnecessary
contentiousness between Drexel and the creditors.
   Judge Buschman also approved fees totaling $2.8 million
for accountants and financial advisers, down from the
requested $3 million.
   ---
   COURT VOIDS a California law aimed at keeping politics out
of some elections.
   The Ninth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals held that a state
constitutional amendment approved by California voters in
1986 was a violation of the First Amendment's free-speech and
association guarantees. The amendment banned party
endorsements in judicial and other nonpartisan elections in
the state.
   The 8-3 ruling overturned a decision by a three-judge
panel of the appeals court last year. The panel had said the
ban was justifiable because the state had a compelling
interest in ensuring nonpartisan election of local and
judicial officeholders.
   Writing for the majority, Chief Judge Alfred Goodwin held
that the ban "burdens political speech without being narrowly
tailored to serve compelling state interests." In dissent,
Judge Arthur Alarcon asserted that the ruling could have a
"devastating impact" on the integrity of local officeholders
and on judicial independence.
   The decision, if upheld, could significantly alter the
face of California politics, giving political parties the
edge in a battle with reformists that dates back 75 years,
when nonpartisan contests were first instituted.
   The ruling arose out of a 1987 challenge to an attempt by
San Francisco election authorities to ban official party
endorsements in the wake of the 1986 voter-approved
constitutional amendment.
   ---
   HOME SHOPPING NETWORK bondholders win court battle against
firm.
   A Delaware Chancery Court ruled that the television
retailer was wrong in placing a notice on certain common
shares that it issued in exchange for its debentures, thereby
rendering those shares virtually worthless.
   The ruling holds Home Shopping liable for damages -- as
yet undetermined -- to current and former bondholders who saw
a drop in the value of their securities. The decision also
means current bondholders will be entitled to swap their
securities at the reset conversion price set out by the
indenture.
   Home Shopping said it will appeal the case to the Delaware
Supreme Court. The company's general counsel, Nando DiFilippo
Jr., said an in-house study indicated possible damages
wouldn't be "financially material to the company."
   Richard Lilly, an analyst with JW Charles Securities Inc.,
concurred. "The potential liability is probably a fraction of
a penny" of per-share earnings, he said.
   The case involves $100 million in 5 1/2% convertible
debentures sold in 1987 by the now defunct Drexel Burnham
Lambert Inc. Home Shopping later sued Drexel alleging, among
other things, that the firm defrauded Home Shopping by
inducing it to agree to a provision resetting the exchange
rate.
   The bonds, when originally issued, were convertible into
common at $25.80 a share, but during the interim year, Home
Shopping's stock plunged in the market. As a result, when the
reset provision took effect in 1988, the bonds were
convertible at $7.05 a share. Instead of having to issue 38.8
shares for each $1,000 face amount of bonds, Home Shopping
had to issue 141.8 shares to bondholders seeking to convert
under the reset provision.
   Home Shopping placed a notice on the extra shares issued
warning that if it won its suit against Drexel the shares
might be valueless.
   In its ruling Tuesday, the Delaware Chancery Court said
the placement of the notice on the shares violated the bond
indenture and it held the company liable to a class of all
bondholders as of May 4, 1988, except the Drexel group.
   The Chancery Court is expected to hold additional
proceedings to establish the amount of damages. David Parker,
an attorney at the New York firm of Kleinberg, Kaplan, Wolff
&amp; Cohen who represents the bondholders, claims damages will
be "very substantial."
   ---
   NEW YORK'S CON EDISON HIT with lawsuits arising from
Monday's blackout.
   Within 48 hours after a substation fire caused a power
failure that crippled New York City's downtown financial
district on Monday, two consumers sued the utility.
   The Harbor Lights Inc., a restaurant, sued alleging that
Consolidated Edison Co. of New York was guilty of gross
negligence in failing to have a backup system in place. Brian
O'Dwyer, a partner with the New York law firm O'Dwyer &amp;
Bernstein, said his client stands to lose as much as $500,000
by Monday, when the power is expected to be restored to the
restaurant.
   Sage Realty Corp., which manages a downtown building, also
sued Con Ed and filed a motion in state court requesting that
all records related to the fire at the substation be held for
discovery, or pretrial fact-finding. Rory Cutaia, a partner
in the New York law firm Shea &amp; Gould, which represents the
realty company, said Con Ed offered his client a generator
until power is restored.
   Frank Leonard, Con Ed's assistant general counsel, said
Mr. Cutaia can send in experts to inspect the damaged
substation.
   A Con Ed official said the utility carries insurance to
cover the payment of damages from blackout-related suits. A
citywide blackout in 1977 led to numerous lawsuits.
   ---
   JUDGE ORDERS ATTORNEY to pay $307,515 for "frivolous"
litigation.
   The Houston attorney, Armando Lopez, had brought suit on
behalf of 24 investors who alleged they were defrauded in a
1984 oil and gas limited partnership offering. The suit
sought $30 million in damages from Ehrman Investment Group
Inc., a Houston-area company which sold the partnerships, and
several individuals.
   But in ordering Mr. Lopez to pay defense attorneys' fees
and fines, U.S. District Judge Norman W. Black said the suit
was pursued "for the sole purpose of harassing" the
defendants. Moreover, he said Mr. Lopez had submitted an
altered document to the court, delayed proceedings, failed to
produce witnesses and refused to cooperate in discovery
matters.
   Mr. Lopez said he was shocked at the action and would ask
the court to reconsider. He also said Judge Black knew the
suit wasn't frivolous because the Securities and Exchange
Commission had filed a similar action in his court against
many of the same defendants.
   ---
   LEGAL STAFF OF THE RTC to be led by a Phoenix lawyer.
   Gerald L. Jacobs, 51, a partner in the Phoenix law firm of
O'Connor, Cavanaugh, Anderson, Westover, Killingsworth &amp;
Beshears, will join the Resolution Trust Corp. as special
counsel Sept. 1, overseeing 350 lawyers in the RTC's
Washington headquarters and four regional offices. The RTC is
a government agency managing and attempting to sell insolvent
savings and loan associations and their assets.
   The special counsel's post had been held by Rex Veal, who
is leaving to return to private practice as a partner at
Powell, Goldstein, Frazer &amp; Murphy, a 240-lawyer law firm in
Atlanta.
   ---
   Arthur S. Hayes and Wayne E. Green contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Yachtsman Scans Horizon for Sponsors
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   PEP WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Yachtsman Dennis Conner has carried home the America's Cup
four times since 1974. One would think sponsors would line up
to back him when he defends the cup again in 1992 in San
Diego.
   One would be wrong. Yesterday, Mr. Conner announced that
PepsiCo has signed on as a major sponsor for the 1992 yacht
race, joining General Motors' Cadillac as the first of what
Mr. Conner hopes will be 10 major corporate sponsors. But
these days, when ad budgets are tight and seem only to be
shrinking, wooing sponsors isn't as easy as it might seem.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Conner has called on 50 companies since he began his
dog-and-pony show for advertisers three months ago. He
traveled to Detroit to make the Cadillac deal, and called on
Pepsi to plead his case. After the Pepsi agreement was
finalized, he says, he wrote the first draft of the news
release and called reporters himself yesterday morning.
   "It's tough. I'm out there competing with the golf and
tennis tournaments," he says of his surprisingly hands-on
involvement. "We have to go out and sell it every time. Every
{race}, we start from scratch."
   Mr. Conner says corporate interest is strong in the race,
and he seems certain he can raise $27 million from major
sponsors before eliminations begin in early 1992. But the
fact that Mr. Conner, as a multiple-winner of the America's
Cup and something of a household name, still must pound the
pavement himself to raise money shows just how tough the $2.5
billion sports sponsorship business has become.
   Major advertisers right now are being bombarded with
sponsorship opportunities, and not just the run-of-the-mill
football contests, either. In 1992, when the America's Cup
race is to be held in San Diego, advertisers will also have
the chance to sponsor other international events, including
the Olympic games, the World's Fair in Spain and the 500th
anniversary of Columbus discovering America.
   "You've got to pick and choose because you have so many"
big events, says Buhl Ford, sales promotion coordinator for
Ford's Lincoln-Mercury division. "In this kind of
environment, you've got to pick what's going to do the best
for the company."
   Lincoln-Mercury sponsored Mr. Conner's sloop, Stars &amp;
Stripes, in the 1987 America's Cup race in Australia, but
decided against it this time around, Mr. Ford says. "It was
very expensive to sponsor those boats, and it didn't make a
lot of sense to a lot of people," he says. "Twelve-meter boat
racing {appeals to} a very specialized market of people with
very special interests, and that is probably very small
compared to all the people we want to sell cars to."
   The high cost of the America's Cup sponsorships is enough
to make some other advertisers think twice, too. Industry
executives say Mr. Conner is seeking a $3 million commitment
from major sponsors. "For one-sixth or one-seventh of that,
you could sponsor an Olympic team and spend the difference
promoting your affiliation, so you really have a hard sell
with the America's Cup," says Lesa Ukman, editor of Special
Events Report, a Chicago newsletter that tracks sponsorships.
"That isn't to say that for certain companies it isn't a good
opportunity, but it really faces a lot of hard-core
competition."
   All sports events in search of sponsors are facing the
same frustrations. Mr. Conner, though, also is working to
overcome a lingering image problem. After the 1987 win, he
became a hero for winning back the cup he had lost to
Australia in 1983. But his public image soured a bit after he
succumbed to what might be called the Mary Lou Retton
syndrome, taking on so many endorsements that he seemed
almost ubiquitous. He shilled for American Express and Pepsi,
for Izod LaCoste, Royal Viking cruise lines, and Ray Ban,
among others. "A lot of people looked at what he was doing as
selling out to the highest bidder, so he was losing some of
his attractiveness to sponsors," Ms. Ukman contends.
   His image wasn't helped after he was challenged for the
cup by a New Zealand crew in 1988. He handily beat the
challengers, but the losers tried to overturn his victory in
court because of his unorthodox use of a catamaran rather
than a single-hull boat. That dispute, after going through
three courts, was finally resolved in his favor just a few
months ago, but not before it got very nasty. At a news
conference just after winning the challenge, for instance,
the two sides almost came to blows.
   But Pepsi, for one, says it isn't concerned about past
difficulties. "Unquestionably, there were issues over the
legal problems that muddied the water a little bit, but those
issues have been resolved," a spokesman says.
   The America's Cup is also more attractive this time around
because it will be held in the U.S. and because sponsors can
now put their logos on the boats they sponsor, a recent
development. "Three years ago there was no opportunity for
signage on the boat. Now, all of a sudden, it's a billboard,"
says Mr. Conner, who couldn't be happier with that turn of
events. With five cameras aboard each boat, he says, viewers
won't be able to help but see logos on sails, visors, shirts
or wristbands.
   International yachting rules were loosened up to allow
sponsors to plaster their logos everywhere because the cost
of yacht racing has risen so wildly in recent years. In 1980,
Mr. Conner says, his budget for the entire race was $2.5
million, and funding came largely from private investors. But
since then, boat construction has changed from inexpensive
aluminum to costly carbon-fiber composites, boosting Mr.
Conner's expected costs to almost $30 million. Many of the 21
challengers from 16 countries will be floating
advertisements, too.
   "I can't write a check for $30 million," Mr. Conner says
of his efforts to woo sponsors. "The only way to compete is
to have corporate America on my side. Without their help and
support, I wouldn't be able to mount a serious effort."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   Y&amp;R IN PRAGUE: As expected, Young &amp; Rubicam has acquired a
majority stake in a Czechoslovakian agency, AB Line Studios.
Under the agreement, the Prague shop will be called Young &amp;
Rubicam Czechoslovakia. Y&amp;R already has operations in Moscow
and Budapest.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Michael V. Howe was named president and chief
executive officer of Young &amp; Rubicam Detroit. Mr. Howe,
previously general manager of the Chrysler-Plymouth division
at Chrysler, succeeds John Sanders, who becomes chief
executive officer of Wunderman Worldwide, Y&amp;R's direct
marketing unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI NYN IG ACCOB AXP
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW AUTO INSURANCE laws dent availability of coverage.
   Various states' rate-rollback orders cause some firms to
delay writing new policies until their rate disputes are
settled. "Insurance is still available, but at a very high
cost," says consumer activist Virginia Knauer. Some
Pennsylvania carriers write new policies only for kin of
existing clients. Assigned-risk plans, with rates 65% higher
than average, take up the slack. Assignments to California's
risk pool, where rates are actually low, rose 58% in 1989.
But drivers there who aren't "white, upper middle-class" find
coverage hard to get, says consumer activist Harvey
Rosenfield.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some consumers are benefiting, though. Pennsylvanians "who
couldn't afford insurance before are buying it now," says
Philadelphia insurance agent Robert Stevenson. But the road
ahead may get bumpy, if carriers exit markets where they say
premiums don't cover costs. New Jersey steps up pressure to
block an ITT Corp. unit from withdrawing; State Farm stops
writing new policies there. "It's going to get a lot worse,"
Mr. Stevenson says. A South Carolina agent loses three
carriers in a month.
   Former insurance regulators in New Jersey set up a
reciprocal exchange, where drivers indemnify each other.
                                                                                                       

   YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE JEWISH to buy kosher, food firms
discover.
   Health-conscious folk see "benefits in the quality control
and lack of additives" in kosher foods, says Stephen F. Hall,
a consultant. Sales of the products, which are made according
to Jewish dietary law, approach $1.5 billion: growth is put
at about 10% a year. Coors is the first U.S. beer certified
kosher, although there's nothing inherently un-kosher about
beer. Thompson Medical's Slim-Fast diet aids also go kosher.
Most of the $1.7 billion of foods CPC International
distributes are certified kosher.
   Kosher Club Inc. ships strictly kosher meals overnight;
firms "panic" when they learn they will be entertaining an
Orthodox Jewish client, says Stephen Ostrow, president. Rabbi
Yosef Wikler says kosher certification groups doubled to 97
world-wide in the past five years. Rep. Solarz (D., N.Y.)
introduces a bill to ensure kosher products are certified,
citing potential for abuse.
                                                                                                       

   CREDIT-CARD BUYER protection plans grow popular, but
limits start appearing.
   Firms lure customers by insuring card-purchased items
against loss, damage or theft. Citibank's Visa and MasterCard
customers consider the plans "one of the most important
services" the cards provide, says Richard Srednicki, business
manager. American Express gets 300,000 claims totaling $45
million since the plan started in 1987. Some banks extend the
plans to cover checking accounts and ATM cards. Among the
stranger claims: A shower stall lost on a highway and a
camera broken in a safari brawl with chimpanzees.
   But costs to issuers can be substantial: Citibank spends
$20 million a year for the service, estimates Spencer Nilson,
who publishes an industry newsletter. "The number of claims
is alarming," he says, and fraud is increasing. As of Oct. 1,
American Express holders will leave home with less
protection: A claim will be limited to $1,000, from $50,000.
Items stolen from cars also will be excluded. Consumer group
Bankcard Holders of America warns of such restrictions.
   Making a claim isn't easy. Serial numbers are required.
"It sounds good but it's a hassle," Mr. Nilson says.
                                                                                                       

   DATA ON THE FLY: New York Telephone puts computer
information services at Kennedy Airport, and plans tests at
La Guardia. Services range from stock prices to plane
reservations. Cost is 25 cents to access. Other charges,
billed via calling card, vary. Nynex explores use of credit
cards.
                                                                                                       

   DIAPER DILEMMA? IGI Inc. patents a diaper it says uses a
biodegradable material with enzymes that speed breakdown even
in landfill conditions. But environmentalists are dubious,
and still lean toward reusable cotton diapers.
                                                                                                       

   ANIMAL FARM Petting Zoo in Manorville, N.Y., takes in
alligators, cattle, horses, parrots, rabbits, dogs and cats.
They come in for a fee, go out for a donation.
                                                                                                       

   CAMPUS HEADHUNTERS arrive as turnover of top
administrators rises.
   Fund-raising duties increase pressure, shorten tenure for
presidents. That boosts demand for recruiters to fill posts.
Among the hunted: new presidents at Johns Hopkins, Ohio
State. Heidrick &amp; Struggles Inc. has 5,000 prospects; it ran
60 academic searches last year. Recruiters don't substitute
for internal search panels. But they generate "short lists,"
and help with advertising, paper work and background checks.
Fees run one-third of first-year salaries, which can top
$200,000.
   Firms vie for prestige jobs, but Harvard won't say whether
it will use one in its presidential search. Brandeis will,
choosing from eight firms. Although no one wants to be seen
as a "jumper," deans or provosts who stay put more than five
years are "fair game" for recruiters, says John D. Phillips
of Korn/Ferry International. Gaining ground on the wish lists
for presidents: academic stature and public relations savvy.
   Headhunting for professors may rise as academic
specialties narrow and Ph.D. pools shrink.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: New York exterminators concerned about how their
image flies with the public will discuss how they're
portrayed at a screening tonight of Arachnophobia. . . .
T.B.U. Racquet Sports Pro Shop takes calls 24 hours a day for
racquet restringing from New Yorkers who play at night.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   LIMITED Inc. aims to be a $10 billion-a-year company with
10% after-tax profits by the mid-1990s. In some editions
yesterday, the percentage of the profit margin was misstated.
Also, Limited's same-store sales increased 5% in June and 6%
in July. In yesterday's What's News column, it was
incorrectly stated that same-store sales fell in those
months.
   (See: "Merchant in a Rush: Leslie Wexner Pushes Limited's
Fast Growth Despite Retailing's Ills --- Company's Profits
Are Rising, But Some Core Businesses Need a Lot of
Overhauling --- Hazard: Wooing the Affluent" and "What's News
-- Business and Finance" -- WSJ Aug. 15, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wednesday's Markets:
   Bond Prices,
   Stocks Post
   Small Gains
   ---
   Mideast Continues
   To Influence Trading;
   Dollar Ends Mixed
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock and bond prices continued to dance to
the tune of the Mideast, gyrating through the day before
ending with tiny gains.
   Long-term U.S. Treasury bonds ended up 1/8 point, or $1.25
for each $1,000 of face amount, in thin trading. Stock prices
followed the bond market in lock step. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average eked out a 0.50 point rise to 2748.27. The
dollar ended mixed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bonds jumped more than half a point early in the day on
reports that Iraq might consider leaving Kuwait in return for
a freeze in the U.S. military buildup in the Persian Gulf.
Oil prices drifted lower on the news. Then President Bush
said he sees no hope of a diplomatic solution until Iraqi
troops leave Kuwait. That helped halt the slide in oil prices
and sent bonds tumbling nearly a full point.
   "The bond market is on a teeter-totter," said Roberta
Olson, fixed-income portfolio manager at Banc One Asset
Management Corp. "One minute it's focusing on political
developments, the next on what's going on in our economy,"
she said.
   Bond prices rose early in the day in part on the news that
July industrial production was unchanged from the June level.
That cheered investors who expected a slight rise. Any
evidence pointing to a weaker economy tends to calm fears
that inflation will rise and erode the value of fixed-income
investments.
   But as soon as Mr. Bush came out later in the morning with
his hawkish comments, Ms. Olson said, traders decided that
"we still have a hot potato on our hands" in the Mideast and
took profits.
   The notion that peace was just around the corner helped
the stock market as well early on, pushing the Dow
industrials up more than 20 points. "There was this breath of
fresh air," said Hugh A. Johnson Jr., chief investment
officer at First Albany Corp., "and investors came out of the
bunkers." But Mr. Bush's comments and the subsequent bond
market reaction quickly erased the gain.
   The dollar started the day by resuming the previous day's
sharp decline, then turned around and rose on indications
that the Mideast turmoil wasn't over.
   But several currency traders said they wouldn't bet that
Mr. Bush's saber rattling will protect the dollar long from
further declines because of weakness in the U.S. economy.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose on volume of 135.2 million shares in New
York Stock Exchange trading. Advancing issues outnumbered
decliners, 887 to 619.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices rose. The yield on the Treasury's 30-year bond
eased to 8.76%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.5660 marks and 147.65 yen, compared
with 1.5645 marks and 148.78 yen Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Money, the New Faith
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Anthony Sampson has a knack for writing about subjects as
they careen into the public consciousness. His classic on the
oil industry, "The Seven Sisters," appeared just as OPEC was
starting to shake the world. He turned to international banks
as Latin America went bust.
   What interests Mr. Sampson this time is money -- mainly,
who is making and spending very great amounts of money.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The rich, of course, are good copy, but in "The Midas
Touch: Understanding the New Global Money Societies Around
Us" (Dutton, 256 pages, $19.95), Mr. Sampson aims higher than
the gossip columnists. His premise is that money is moving
around the globe in ways and at speeds heretofore unseen, and
with consequences that should alarm us. It has become the new
faith, he writes, displacing God, blurring national culture:
   "If an ancestor were brought back to life in the twentieth
century he would surely assume that the world was under the
sway of a powerful new religion. He would see . . . hundreds
of acolytes sitting silently in front of flickering screens,
watching mystical patterns of digits taking shape and
pressing keys as if reciting ritual responses or telling
beads."
   As money has become transferrable at the stroke of a
computer key, Mr. Sampson argues, it has become detached from
"ordinary goods and trade." Money -- rather than industry or
natural resources -- has become the chief tool for making
more money. It would be hard to name an era in which money
was unimportant, but Mr. Sampson argues that financial values
have, as never before, eclipsed other ones. Most ominously,
the short horizons of financial markets have diverted the
attention of corporate planners from problems, such as the
environment, which require longer investments.
   Though his targets are familiar ones, what is interesting,
for a while, is how Mr. Sampson takes aim. The author, a
Londoner, trots around the globe to see how various societies
relate to money. In America, he finds that the rich, having
earned the privilege of leisure, rise at dawn, heady with the
prospect of work. He diagnoses Japan as insecure, but he is
fooled like everyone else into believing that the Japanese
government can "intervene more decisively" to prevent its
stock market from crashing.
   Along the way, Mr. Sampson interviews a score of marquee
names, with mixed results. He is there when Donald Trump's
telephone rings and the great one "barks out curt replies and
instructions to someone who turns out to be his wife." He
lunches with the late Malcolm Forbes as the latter's yacht
sails through Shanghai harbor with cheerful Chinese
functionaries who gawk at his bedrooms -- not long before the
events of Tiananmen Square. And Thomas Hoving, the former
director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, reveals that the
secret of raising millions (for the Met anyhow) is to "appeal
to the inherent inferiority complex of the person."
   Mr. Sampson also bashes art buyers, and consumers in
general, as slaves to Midas. Designer-label fashions are a
proxy for stitching a dollar bill to one's sleeve. Paint
something you love, a gallery owner said to a young Andy
Warhol. "Paint money." So he did.
   At times, Mr. Sampson seems to confuse the communications
revolution, which is new, with people's instinct for profit,
which surely is not. He writes of "electronic funds that race
across the world" as if people weren't, in fact, causing the
money to race. The tone recalls the sci-fi horror films in
which machines run wild; only here the dollar is invested
with anthropomorphic powers. Citicorp's John Reed sees in the
creation of global foreign exchange markets, which handle
$400 billion a day, a likeness to "the physicist who created
the atomic bomb." But in his day, Charles Dickens viewed with
suspicion the spread of paper money -- "that mysterious paper
currency which circulates in London when the wind blows." The
winds are now electronic, but what of it?
   Mr. Sampson's most arresting idea is that the mobility of
money is changing ordinary lives, but this, like much else,
is broadly brushed but not explored. And some of his
assumptions simply are wrong. The stock market crash of 1987
did not "expose the weakness of the American economy" -- only
the inefficiency of markets.
   More troubling than the occasional slip is Mr. Sampson's
blurring of substance and form. Of the brand names on sale in
airports and hotels, he writes: "a parade of honored names .
. . they offer jewelry, accessories, electronics, clothes,
luggage, the instruments of both status and escape, as if all
the rich had become refugees." Mr. Sampson writes well enough
to almost pull it off, but in such passages there is less
than meets the eye.
   At bottom, he is uncomfortable with the stuff itself --
money. Like Marx, he abhors "naked self-interest"; unlike
him, he proposes no real alternative.
   Mr. Sampson is at his best examining societies, such as
Ghana, outside the sweep of modern financial markets. He
concludes that communist ideology doesn't fully explain why
China is so much poorer than Chinese communities overseas.
Rather, he lays much of the blame on cultural factors, such
as the mainland's historical disdain for merchants. "There
was the difference between a people at home -- with all the
constraints of their society, their families, and the weight
of the past -- and in exile."
   ---
   Mr. Lowenstein is a reporter in the Journal's New York
bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Thomas Fritz Resigns
   From Top Three Posts
   At Investors Savings
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   INVS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. -- Investors Savings Corp. said Thomas
Fritz resigned as chairman, president and chief executive
officer of the thrift holding company because of "differences
in management style."
   James M. Burkholder, chief operating officer and chief
financial officer, and John G. Lohmann Jr., secretary of the
company and chief lending officer, will assume portions of
Mr. Fritz's responsibilities until the board finds a
successor, Investors Savings said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In an interview, Mr. Burkholder characterized Mr. Fritz's
departure as "friendly" and the result of a "mutual decision"
reached with the board.
   Mr. Fritz, a co-founder of the $575 million asset thrift,
"is fully supportive of our management team and . . . as a
major shareholder, his confidence in our future remains
undiminished," Investors Savings said in a letter to
employees made public yesterday. Mr. Fritz couldn't be
reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consumer Savings Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>

   Super-NOW Accounts-a           4.98%
   Six-month Certificates-a       7.53%
   One-year Certificates-a        7.63%
   Thirty-month Accounts-a        7.69%
   Five-Year Certificates-a       7.79%
   U.S. Savings Bonds-b           7.01%
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   a-Average rate paid yesterday by 100 large banks and
thrifts in the 10 largest metropolitan areas as compiled by
Bank Rate Monitor.
   b-Current annual yield. Guaranteed minimum 6%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Winning Entries in This Contest
   Make for Lite Reading in August
   ----
   By Kevin Helliker
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Inspired by the success of the annual imitation Ernest
Hemingway contest, American Airlines' in-flight magazine
decided to launch its own imitation this year and came up
with what seemed like a natural -- a William Faulkner
write-alike competition.
   But imitation wasn't the sincerest form of flattery as far
as Mark Grody was concerned. "How disappointing you couldn't
come up with an original idea," wrote Mr. Grody, whose public
relations firm coordinated the Hemingway contest, which was
sponsored by Harry's Bar &amp; American Grill, a restaurant
chain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Grody's pique doesn't bother Doug Crichton, editor of
American Way, the inflight magazine that sponsored the
Faulkner competition, along with a Faulkner newsletter run by
the late author's niece. In fact, he says, it's highly
appropriate. "Hemingway and Faulkner would have loved it," he
says. "They didn't like each other, or each other's writing."
   In that case, Papa would probably get apoplectic reading
the winning entries in the first Bad Faulkner contest.
Consider this, from a piece called "As I Lay Dieting," by Sam
Staggs, a Philadelphia novelist: "then I seed her eatin hog
meat, it was pig killin time, the wine of Euboeleus, she
piled her plate full and red eye gravy on it like the
vertiginous overflow of a bayou in spring. . ."
   All the entries violate, as Faulkner did, Hemingway's
golden rule: short sentences. This, for instance, spewed
forth from Jerome Richard, a Seattle free-lance writer: "He
paced the corner where he had waited for her before not once
or even twice but every one of the dozen or so times they
arranged to meet like this in broad daylight as if defying
not just her ancestors and his but fate itself which seemed,
must have decreed that no Capwell would ever marry a
Tomlinson and produce out of their sweating concupiscence. .
." The sentence goes on for another three hundred words.
   The imitation Faulkner contest will go on, too.
Manuscripts are already being solicited for next year.
   As for the imitation Hemingway contest, it was put to rest
after 11 years, done in by success. "We were getting over
2,500 entries a year, and the cost just got astronomical,"
says Mr. Grody.
   By the way, he now insists, somewhat sheepishly, that his
criticism of the Faulkner contest was tongue-in-cheek. Says
he: "All the best to Bad Faulkner."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Playboy Enterprises
   Holders Sue Over Bid
   For Dual-Class Stock
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   PLAA
</CO>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- A shareholder lawsuit alleged that Playboy
Enterprises Inc.'s recently implemented dual-class structure
is unfair to minority stockholders.
   The suit, filed in the chancery division of Cook County
state court here, claims the "true purpose" of the plan is to
"enable Hugh Hefner to retain voting control of Playboy while
disposing of up to threequarters of his Playboy holdings."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The suit charges Playboy and certain officials with breach
of fiduciary duty, among other things, and asks the court to
order a reversal of Playboy's recapitalization plan.
   In May, Playboy announced plans to convert its common
stock into separate voting and nonvoting classes. The
publishing and entertainment concern touted the plan, which
was approved by holders, as a benign business tool under
which it could issue nonvoting shares without diluting
founder and former Chairman Hugh Hefner's 71% controlling
stake. Mr. Hefner's support meant passage of the measure was
a foregone conclusion.
   The shareholder suit says that Mr. Hefner, as a
"self-interested and majority shareholder, had the ultimate
power to determine the outcome of the shareholder vote."
Because he held that power, Playboy "had a heightened and
unflinching duty to look after the interests of the minority
shareholders when implementing the plan, which it failed to
exercise."
   A Playboy spokeswoman said the company hadn't yet seen the
suit, but added, "We are extremely confident the court will
uphold the validity" of the recent move. The plan "provides
substantial benefits to all of the company's shareholders,"
she said, and "doesn't change Mr. Hefner's historic control
of the company."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lands' End, Squeezed
   By Discount Sales,
   Posts $2.2 Million Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   LE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   DODGEVILLE, Wis. -- Lands' End Inc., hurt by discount
sales needed to clear out excess inventory, reported a
surprising loss of $2.2 million, or 12 cents a share, for its
second quarter ended Aug. 3.
   The catalog-sales concern, which in recent quarters has
been troubled by sluggish sales and swelling inventories, had
been expected to report a downturn in earnings from the
year-earlier period's $2.2 million, or 11 cents a share. But
the lowest estimates didn't foresee a loss.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest period's loss came despite a 12% increase in
sales, to $117.1 million from the year-earlier $104.2
million.
   Liquidations of excess inventory represented about 16% of
overall sales during the latest quarter, compared with about
10% a year earlier. The company also said that selling,
general and administrative expenses climbed 22% --
significantly higher than the sales growth.
   The announcement came after the stock market closed.
Analysts are likely to react today, cutting full-year
earnings estimates that had averaged around $1.25 a share
compared with $1.45 a share a year earlier.
   But Sharon Rappaport, a Montgomery Securities analyst,
said the news isn't all bad. "They've taken the first step in
addressing their problem," she said. Ms. Rappaport has been
saying for some time that Lands' End's inventories are too
high and its merchandise is dull.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Investment Banks Hire
   Fewer MBAs, Survey Finds
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Fewer students who earned a master of business
administration degree this year found their way to Wall
Street, according to a new survey.
   The nation's top 14 investment banks hired 221 graduating
MBAs this year, an 8% decrease from the 240 MBAs hired during
1989, according to the study by the Whitney Group, a New
York-based executive search firm that specializes in
financial services. This year's figure is nearly 50% below
hiring levels in 1987, before the October market crash, the
survey said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Of the investment banking firms polled, eight said they
hired fewer MBAs than last year, including Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc., Salomon Brothers Inc., Shearson Lehman
Brothers Inc. and Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. Two of the
companies surveyed said they were hiring the same number as
last year.
   Not all the firms queried said they were pulling back,
though. Four companies, including Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. and
Dillon, Read &amp; Co., said they had hired more MBAs than last
year.
   "Caution remains the trend, with most investment banking
firms moderately bearish on the number of deals they
foresee," said Gary Goldstein, managing director of the
Whitney Group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   From a July 2 interview on CNN's Moneyweek with John Shad,
the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission
who then served briefly as chairman of Drexel Burnham
Lambert. He was asked why the firm went into liquidation so
soon after he joined:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bill Hartley: Ten months later Drexel went into
bankruptcy. What was wrong? What did you find? What was the
most shocking to you when you got there? What did you see?
   Mr. Shad: Well, I wasn't really shocked because I had
spent a month and a half working at it before I got involved.
But it was -- I'd say the thing I didn't anticipate that had
a lot to do with the collapse of the firm ultimately was the
S&amp;L bailout bill last August, which included a provision that
required the S&amp;Ls to liquidate their high-yield bond
positions, which I don't think Congress anticipated would
cause such an immediate negative reaction in the whole
market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Pearson's Penguin
   Says Chief Executive
   Resigned Position
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   U.PSO WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Penguin USA, a unit of London-based Pearson
PLC, announced the resignation of Morton Mint, chief
executive officer. Mr. Mint has only been in the post since
late October, after years of running Penguin's operations in
Canada.
   The resignation was abrupt and shocked the publishing
community. Mr. Morton couldn't be reached for comment, nor
was Peter Mayer, executive chairman of Penguin USA,
available. The company released a statement that said the two
executives had "policy differences with respect to management
of the company in the future."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Penguin named Marvin Brown, chief administrative officer,
to the chief executive post "for the time being." The company
said Penguin USA will move toward more decentralization
within the company, with each of the adult divisions having
its own president as well as publisher.
   Penguin has been one of a number of publishing houses
experiencing turmoil in the past year after a time of rapid
growth by acquisition. Last fall, Penguin closed the adult
publishing division of E.P. Dutton, firing a number of
editors in what many in publishing felt was an insensitive
and abrupt manner.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Industry Output
   Leveled Off
   During July
   ---
   Operating Rate Decreased;
   Inventories Fell by 0.4%
   In June After May Gain
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Production by U.S. industry leveled off in
July after rising for two months, the Federal Reserve
reported, an indication that the economy continues to
stumble.
   Manufacturing production slipped 0.1% and utility output
dropped 0.4%, but mining posted a 1% increase.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   American industry has been encumbered by high interest
rates, and the new numbers show that it continues to be
frail, despite production increases of 0.4% in June and 0.6%
in May. Nevertheless, some economists took last month's flat
production as a sign that the industrial economy was still
strong enough to dodge a downturn.
   The Fed also said that variations in motor vehicle
production have been influencing overall output numbers.
"Excluding motor vehicles, industrial output rose 0.2% last
month, about the same rate of growth that has been evident so
far this year," it said.
   "When you put motor vehicles to one side, the industrial
economy keeps crawling upward," said Robert Dederick, chief
economist at Northern Trust Co. in Chicago.
   But S. Jay Levy, a partner at Levy Economic Forecasts in
Chappaqua, N.Y., said, "I think this little spurt in
production a few months ago was interpreted as stronger
demand for manufactured goods than was the reality."
   The Fed also reported that industry used less of its
capacity in July production than it had in June, another
indication of slack. July's industrial operating rate was
83.4% of capacity, down from 83.6% in June. Manufacturing
operating rates dropped to 82.6% from 82.9%.
   The lower operating rates could temper some of the
inflation pressure being created by oil price increases. When
factories are running flat-out they often encounter
production snags and shortages that can lead to price
increases.
   Any sign of relief from price pressures will be welcome
news for the economy, which now faces an acceleration of
inflation provoked by rocketing oil prices in the wake of
Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
   A report from the Commerce Department also contained some
encouraging news for the prospect of continued economic
growth. Business inventories fell 0.4% in June, nearly
erasing a 0.5% rise in May, the department said.
   With the economy growing very slowly these days, it is
particularly important for businesses to hold down
inventories. If unsold stocks pile up too high companies are
likely to cut back orders or production and even lay off
workers. The chain reaction can tip the economy into a
recession.
   The drop in inventories left stocks of retailers,
manufacturers and merchant wholesalers at $797.30 billion in
June. At the same time sales of all businesses rose 1% during
the month, to $544.43 billion.
   At that sales pace, it would have taken 1.46 months to
sell off June inventories, down from 1.49 months in May.
   ---
                  INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION
                                                                                                       

   Here is a summary of the Federal Reserve Board's report on
industrial production in July. The figures are seasonally
adjusted.
                                                                                                       

                                          change from
                                         June      July
                                         1990      1989
                                                                                                       

   Total ...............................  0.0       1.9
     Consumer goods .................... -0.4       2.4
     Business equipment ................ -0.6       2.7
     Defense and space .................  0.0      -1.3
   Manufacturing only .................. -0.1       1.8
     Durable goods ..................... -0.4       1.8
     Nondurable goods ..................  0.3       1.8
                                                                                                       

   Mining ..............................  1.0       3.6
                                                                                                       

   Utilities ........................... -0.4       1.9
                                                                                                       

   The industrial production index for July stood at 109.8%
of the 1977 average.
   ---
                    BUSINESS INVENTORIES
                                                                                                       

   Here is a summary of the Commerce Department's report on
business inventories and sales in June. The figures are in
billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted:
                                                                                                       

                                   (billions of dollars)
                                   June     May      June

                                                                                                       

   Total business inventories ... 797.30   800.40   782.64
     Manufacturers .............. 370.53   372.38   366.49
     Retailers .................. 235.13   234.81   231.00
     Wholesalers ................ 191.64   193.20   185.15
                                                                                                       

   Total business sales ......... 544.43   538.95   520.51
                                                                                                       

   Inventory/sales ratio ........   1.46     1.49     1.50
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Value of Science (Non)Fiction
   ----
   By Ben Bova
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   By now I'm pretty sick and tired of people asking, "Who
would have thought a few years ago that Eastern Europe would
overthrow communism, and the Soviet Union would be in danger
of breaking up?"
   I would have thought of it. In fact, I did, in the novel
"Voyagers II: The Aliens Within," published in 1986. It is a
science fiction novel, of course.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It has always surprised me that people who pay attention
to stock market analysts and weather forecasters refuse to
read science fiction. They are missing the best technique
available for examining the future.
   There is virtually nothing that has been discovered or
invented in this century that was not predicted in a science
fiction story. From computers to space travel, from organ
transplants to genetic engineering, robots, nuclear power,
the population explosion, the energy crunch, urban sprawl and
greenhouse warming -- all were subjects of science fiction
stories 20, 40, 60 years ago and more.
   I am speaking of science fiction as it is published in
books and magazines, not the "sci-fi" of Hollywood. Most
"sci-fi" movies bear the same relationship to science fiction
that Popeye does to naval history. Even films based on solid
science fiction, such as the Schwarzenegger epic "Total
Recall," bury the science fiction ideas beneath an orgy of
mindless violence. Would you give the cops machine guns if
you lived in a glass dome? Come on]
   (Incidentally, the term "sci-fi" is loathed by most
science fiction writers. It is a term of derision, used
mainly by publicity agents and desperate headline writers.)
   Futurists, the professional scientists who make a career
of technological and/or sociological forecasting, are like
science fiction writers who have had the imagination beaten
out of them. If you have ever read a futurist's report five
years after it was published you know that their forecasts
are usually worthless. This is because they must labor under
a tremendous handicap: They must stick to the facts that are
known at the time the report is written. This means their
forecasts tend to be straight-line extrapolations of the
present situation that become more and more inaccurate the
farther into the future we go.
   Science fiction writers, on the other hand, are not
hampered by the limitations of the present. They can create
crazy ideas, wild cards. They are free to invent anything
they can imagine, as long as it does not violate the basic
laws of science. (And, in some cases, even if it does.) If
you wait long enough, the wild card eventually shows up. The
Arabs do put an embargo on petroleum. The Soviet system does
crack apart. Ray guns become lasers. Invisible airplanes
become Stealth bombers.
   Does this mean that you can foretell the future by reading
science fiction? Yes. And no.
   Science fiction writers are really not even trying to
predict the future. Most of us do not believe there is a
single, immutable THE future to predict. The future is
plastic, unformed, capable of being shaped by all the things
each of us does -- and all the things we fail to do.
   Science fiction stories examine possible futures. The
writer takes a set of ideas and asks, "What would happen if .
. ." And the game begins. What would happen if a flying
saucer landed on the White House lawn and gave us an energy
source that ran on water and produced no harmful pollution?
In science fiction, that is the beginning of a story. How
would the world change? Who would benefit? Who would get
hurt? Where should you invest your money?
   By reading science fiction, you get a kaleidoscopic view
of many possible futures. The one that actually happens is in
there someplace. It may become reality because enough readers
liked that future well enough to make it come true. Most of
the men who walked on the moon started by reading science
fiction. So did most of the people who got them there.
   This is not to say that every tale is a literary gem. Far
from it. The late science fiction writer Theodore Sturgeon
years ago coined Sturgeon's Law: Ninety percent of science
fiction is crud; but then, 90% of everything is crud.
   At its best, science fiction acts as a sort of simulations
laboratory in which we test ideas about the future. "What
if?" is the question constantly being examined.
   What if Saddam Hussein succeeds in his quest to develop
nuclear arms for Iraq? What if AIDS or a similar
immune-system disease spreads to the general population? What
if the greenhouse effect melts the polar ice caps?
   Can a world divided into nations and blocs create an
effective International Peacekeeping Force with the power and
authority to prevent any nation from attacking any other
nation?
   Will electronic books replace paper?
   Will private enterprise finally move into space
development and create the industries in orbit that
government programs cannot? Or will space be left entirely to
politically motivated government efforts?
   Will advances in biotechnology allow us to live for
centuries? Or become virtually immortal?
   These are the kinds of questions that good science fiction
considers. Surely, if any field of literature can be said to
have any practical value, this ongoing examination of the
future's many pathways is as important as it is entertaining.
   ---
   Mr. Bova, the author of more than 75 futuristic books,
fiction and nonfiction, is president of the Science Fiction
Writers of America and former editorial director of Omni
magazine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Education Partnership
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NEC WILLA
</CO>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- National Education Corp. said that its
Applied Learning International unit and John Wiley &amp; Sons'
Wilson Learning Corp. subsidiary formed a partnership for
Applied Learning to distribute all of Wilson's videotape
training courses. National Education said that the
distribution rights are exclusive in the U.S., Canada, and
the United Kingdom. National Education is a vocational and
industrial-training and educational-publishing company. John
Wiley &amp; Sons is a New York-based publisher.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Atlantic Richfield Co.:
   Price Freeze Will Continue;
   Middle East Crisis Is Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   ARC MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Atlantic Richfield Co. said that in response to the Middle
East crisis, it would continue to freeze wholesale gas,
diesel and jet fuel prices.
   Los Angeles-based Atlantic Richfield initially froze gas
prices last week for one week. The company said it was now
extending the freeze for an unspecified period. "We want to
comply with President Bush's request to hold the line on gas
prices," said an Atlantic Richfield Co. spokesman. The
company's sales have increased 10% since Iraq's invasion of
Kuwait, he added.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Under the Gun:
   FMC's Quick Reaction
   Shows How One Firm
   Deals With Iraq Crisis
   ---
   Maker of Defense and Oil Gear
   Stops Shipments, Prepares
   Escapes, Sends Salesmen
   ---
   Big Risks -- and Opportunities
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   FMC MDEST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Iraq has just invaded Kuwait, and Larry Brady
is thumbing through documents to gauge the effect on his
company, a far-flung conglomerate called FMC Corp. Halfway
through, he stops and looks up in horror. Five new FMC
street-sweepers, worth $400,000, are on a freighter bound for
Kuwait City -- and they're just hours from their destination.
   "Get that ship turned around]" Mr. Brady, the executive
vice president, barks to Joe Murdock, international business
manager at FMC's sweeper division in Pomona, Calif. "Saddam
Hussein isn't getting his hands on those sweepers."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Murdock is already phoning the freighter's captain
when Mr. Brady calls. Take a quick turn into Abu Dhabi, Mr.
Murdock orders the captain, just in time.
   It's crisis management time at FMC Corp., as at hundreds
of businesses across the U.S. and the world. For the past two
weeks, FMC executives have been meeting and moving nearly
nonstop to prevent damage -- for instance, by planning Middle
East evacuation routes for employees -- and to take advantage
of opportunities, such as gearing up factories in Malaysia to
speed production of oil-field equipment.
   FMC, a manufacturer with $3.4 billion in annual sales, is
the 48th biggest exporter in the U.S. and has one of the
largest involvements in the Middle East. It has long wooed
that part of the world as a market for its array of armored
fighting vehicles, oil production and shipping equipment, and
agrichemicals. As a result, the Iraq-inspired economic chaos
is sparking widespread action at the company.
   FMC executives are clogging each other's phone-mail files
with about 2,000 messages a day, more than twice the number
before the invasion. Nha Hoang, FMC's director of
international business, is staying up two hours later until 1
a.m. for his messages. He gets up at 6 a.m. and typically
finds at least three messages related to the Middle East
waiting for him.
   At night, he watches Cable News Network while janitors
work around him in the employee lounge; they stop dusting and
watch with him when cameras fall on Saddam Hussein or
arriving U.S. troops.
   Robert Malott, FMC's chairman and chief executive officer,
now checks his phone messages from home by 7 a.m. daily and
right before bed. The crisis even follows him to the
executive suite bathroom, where autographed photos of him
socializing with a half-dozen desert kings adorn the walls.
In their midst hangs a huge painting of Elvis Presley,
appropriately shedding a tear. "He was the King," says the
63-year-old Mr. Malott, laughing.
   It's a rare moment of humor during the crisis. Every FMC
department is on alert: checking all contracts for deliveries
within 2,000 miles of Iraq to make sure banks outside the war
zone will guarantee payment; tactfully suspending
negotiations of long-erm sales contracts for fear of
inflation; hedging on the futures markets for such supplies
as aluminum in case of oil-driven price spirals.
   They're hurriedly reassessing expansion plans, reviewing
marketing strategy, and revamping expense and profit
projections.
   William Schumann III, FMC's treasurer, gets on the phone
to one of his company's Middle East experts. "What has
happened to the Bank of Kuwait?" he asks into the phone. And
then he repeats the answer: "We don't know?"
   Despite the uncertainty, the FMC executives know it's
important not to panic. Abrupt canceling of contracts in a
troubled region may insult customers and frighten prospects
who can't be won again when the danger passes. So Mr. Malott
is promising customers in the Middle East he will stick with
them if possible.
   Mr. Malott knows there are some ways that the crisis could
benefit FMC. Several of Suddam Hussein's potential targets,
including Saudi Arabia and Turkey, had already ordered FMC
armaments before the invasion of Kuwait, and their shopping
list may lengthen now. In fact, opportunities to sell more
armaments appear to give FMC "more options than a mosquito in
a nudist camp," says James McClung, vice president of
international business.
   The company dispatched oil-equipment salesmen to Alaska
last week on the chance that producers there will soon want
to drill or pump more crude. FMC's former top equipment
salesman in Saudi Arabia, who recently retired to rural
France, was abruptly wooed back to work and ordered to the
kingdom. FMC expects the Saudis to order additional
oil-production equipment to make up for some of the lost
Kuwaiti supplies.
   Further hostilities could damage expensive oil-field
equipment whose replacement would require expansion of FMC
factories. So a new plant to make oil-related machinery in
Malaysia will open this month, several weeks earlier than
planned.
   FMC might also benefit because it has recently ventured
into mining gold, which often rises in value during times of
turmoil (it has gone up 8% since the Iraqi invasion). Gold
production accounted for about 16% of FMC's $136.4 million
profit last year, so Mr. Schumann has increased his profit
projections both short- and long-term. But not all of his
revisions are complete, frustrating the roughly 10 securities
analysts who call daily -- twice the number before the
invasion.
   There are also worrisome dangers for the company and some
of its 24,000 employees. The FMC man in Kuwait, a Palestinian
who requests anonymity, had a dead phone line the morning of
the invasion. He wasn't heard from for nine days.
   When he finally phones Mr. Hoang, the director of
international business, the Palestinian says an overturned
16-wheel truck, blown up by a rocket, had blocked the nearest
highway, so he'd escaped across the desert to Saudi Arabia in
a friend's Chevrolet Caprice.
   "Chevy is the new ship of the desert," replacing camels,
he exults. He complains that his own Caprice, which has a car
phone, was stolen by Iraqi troops on invasion day.
   Mr. McClung's 39-member international-operations staff
quickly dedicates itself to devising possible evacuation
routes for other FMC employees stationed in Egypt, Turkey,
Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Oman, Pakistan and even Greece. The plans
include buying advance tickets on more than one airline out
of the area, filling personal cars with gasoline, studying
maps for routes across the desert and topping off water
bottles in case employees are stranded in remote terrain.
   And FMC orders that all company officials traveling within
2,000 miles of Baghdad furnish full daily itineraries,
including the phone numbers of restaurants where they plan to
take clients to lunch.
   A week after the invasion, FMC oil-equipment salesman
Colin Jaring reroutes his trip into Oman to avoid a
commercial airline flight over Saudi Arabia, where he fears
there might be fighting. Instead, he flies in through Egypt
and flies out over the United Arab Emirates.
   He reports that Oman continues to yield hot sales
prospects.
   At 2 a.m. on invasion day, Aug. 2, Mark Ahn, FMC's foreign
exchange manager, was awakened by his message beeper. His
London currency adviser warned that he should be making
trades to protect FMC's monetary exchange portfolio in the
wake of nervous fluctuations in the yen and several other
currencies. By dawn, Mr. Ahn had spread FMC's exposure more
heavily into U.S. dollars and British pounds. By the time he
arrived bleary-eyed in his office at 9 a.m., his day was
already seven hours old.
   Mr. McClung first heard of the invasion from the chauffeur
of his hired limousine as he left a performance by the
Bolshoi ballet. He didn't know it, but FMC Chairman Malott,
who was arranging a high-level meeting for the morning, was
trying to reach him at the same time from Aspen, Colo.
   At first, Mr. McClung was speechless. He waited until
seeing the morning's TV news before starting to phone
subordinates, U.S. government officials and customers from
Washington to Khartoum, Sudan, seeking information on
conditions in the Middle East.
   Mr. Malott, an executive who has dined with both George
Bush and Mikhail Gorbachev, also desperately began seeking
information, dipping into FMC's network of political and
economic advisers from Washington to Istanbul.
   But fresh facts from the Middle East have been rarer than
raindrops in that region. One midnight last week, an aide of
Mr. Malott phoned FMC's representative in Dubai to get the
latest. All the Dubai representative could offer was his
interpretation of what he had just seen on TV.
   When the company does get news, it's often bad. The United
Arab Emirates had been interested in buying dozens of FMC
armored vehicles for $1.5 million apiece, and the U.S. Air
Force had agreed to transport one of them to the Emirates
this week for a test drive. But the Pentagon informed FMC
late last week that its planes would be busy transporting
U.S. troops into Saudi Arabia.
   FMC officials notified officers in the Emirates' army that
their 10-day test drive must be postponed indefinitely. This
was a major disappointment for Mr. McClung, who had arranged
for a half-dozen U.S. Army experts and 12 FMC armaments
specialists to hold mini-war-games with the armored vehicles.
They would train Emirates soldiers to drive them over sand
dunes, blast away at a few junked cars and, of course,
demonstrate how to adjust the air conditioning -- "the whole
damned show."
   FMC has many other concerns throughout the region. FMC
officials wondered briefly last week if their 200 industrial
orange-juice squeezers on lease to Israel are in danger,
should that country be drawn into the conflict. But Mr.
Brady, who recently returned from the squeezing site,
reported to Mr. Malott that the Israelis are prepared to
protect the area where the juicers are.
   Then there's Iran. If Iran should somehow get involved in
the conflict, that could cause problems for FMC too, because
FMC recently accepted a $15 million job to rebuild
oil-shipping facilities in Iran -- a project that could
become an easy target for Iraq. Iranian involvement seems
less likely now, what with Iraq offering yesterday to
formally settle the 1980-88 Iraq-Iran war. But before that
move, FMC officials reviewed the wisdom of proceeding with
the Iranian contract. They decided to tell Iran that they
won't abandon contractual obligations, but that a lengthy
postponement might be in order.
   The contract could be canceled altogether if the Persian
Gulf conflict escalates. Mr. Malott wants no part of the
Middle East if Iraq starts using chemical weapons. "In my
judgment, that will quickly start a tactical nuclear war. The
whole area could blow up," he says.
   Until the economic sanctions ordered by the U.S. (and many
other nations), Iraq had also been a customer for FMC's
oil-production equipment and herbicides. But Iraq owes FMC
about $100,000. Before sending Saddam Hussein a dunning
letter, FMC will seek payment from Iraq's European bankers.
Its finance department expects to decide how to handle this
in the next month, depending on whether Saddam Hussein's
staff is busy with a war.
   As of invasion day, FMC was manufacturing equipment or
parts to fill about 40 contracts with Kuwait, most of them
for petroleum-related equipment. What do they do with that
equipment now?
   FMC officials cross-checked hundreds of contracts with
customers in safer climes to see whether the parts made for
the Kuwaitis can be used by somebody else. Three days of
crash research by FMC's department of international business
revealed that out of a $4 million inventory destined for
Kuwait, all but about $500,000 worth can be used elsewhere.
Some of the equipment was too tailor-made to substitute on
other contracts.
   Another issue faces the company: Should it close its
300-employee oil-equipment plant in Singapore? All of its
current orders are from Kuwait. But instead of closing the
plant, the company has decided to retool it to accelerate
orders in its distant backlog from India and Indonesia, which
have longstanding orders to be filled after the production
for Kuwait is finished. "You have to think that with oil up
to $25 a barrel from $15, our customers won't want to wait,"
says Joseph Netherland, vice president of FMC's petroleum
machinery business.
   In fact, after studying rapidly changing world oil
markets, FMC officials decided to go ahead with a $6 million
plan to expand oil-related manufacturing operations, an idea
previously scheduled for discussion by directors in October.
The move makes Mr. Malott, the CEO, uneasy. "We haven't made
money in the oil business for 10 years, but now there's
opportunity," he reasons.
   That chance could dim fast if the Iraq crisis eases, he
concedes. But FMC is betting on its customers' gearing up for
consistently higher oil prices.
   Together with all of the international crisis management,
FMC is also preparing for economic consequences at home. For
now, Mr. Malott is more worried about being overrun by
inflation than Iraqi troops. The day of the invasion, he
ordered a halt to new long-term, fixed-price contracts
anywhere in the world. "I'm concerned that for the last
decade, too few of our people on the firing lines have been
thinking about inflation. That's what you don't want to get
caught in the middle of," he says.
   The invasion is throwing a wrench into FMC's plans to
restructure about $150 million in adjustable-rate debt. On
Aug. 2, "interest rates were almost down to the level we
wanted to switch with the banks to a fixed interest rate. But
now the fixed rates have edged out of our desired range,"
says Mr. Schumann. "So we're looking at an inflationary pop
from rising energy costs while we also have considerable
floating-interest-rate exposure. It isn't where we want to
be."
   Rising fuel costs may prompt conservative FMC into a rare
gamble on energy futures trading, Mr. Schumann says. Much of
the natural gas used in FMC factories is purchased in the
spot market, where prices are soaring. "We have to come to
grips with our options," he says.
   And even though aluminum prices haven't jumped yet, Mr.
Schumann's staff is starting to buy long-term aluminum
contracts to ensure that it can make a profit on the promised
sticker price of armaments.
   Mr. Schumann faxed orders to controllers at 30 plants from
California to Venezuela to tabulate dozens of scenarios for
their expected costs of natural gas and diesel fuel. He
ordered the calculations at oil prices from $15 to $35 a
barrel. Those estimates are still pouring in and it will
probably be several weeks -- depending on whether fuel prices
stabilize -- before he can estimate how much FMC's profit
margins will erode this winter.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Hoang, the director of international
business, monitors the Middle East via 18-hour days on the
telephone. Mr. Hoang, a former pilot in the air force of
South Vietnam, fires off orders to FMC officials en route to
appointments in the troubled Persian Gulf region.
   The night after the invasion, a salesman phoned from Paris
to ask whether he should keep an appointment to push
herbicides in the Sudan the next day. "Just get your business
done and get out of there," Mr. Hoang replied.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Image Bank Plans to Post Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TIBI
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Image Bank Inc., which licenses reproduction
rights to photos and film, expects to report a loss of about
$584,000, or 16 cents a share, for the third quarter ended
June 30.
   The loss stems from a $700,000 write-off of foreign tax
credits the company hasn't used. The write-off is required
for accounting reasons, but Image Bank still can use the tax
credits over five years, the company said. For the
year-earlier period, Image Bank, which went public in August
1989, reported pro-forma net income of $151,000, or seven
cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Broker, Ex-Print Aide
   Must Pay Back Funds
   In Insider-Trade Case
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   MHP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   A judge ordered a stockbroker and a former printing-plant
employee to pay $66,099 for committing securities fraud by
trading on information from advance copies of Business Week.
   The Securities and Exchange Commission sued former
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. broker Brian Callahan of
Anaheim, Calif., and former print worker William Jackson of
Long Beach, Calif., in January. In May, a jury found that the
men had traded on confidential information.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The SEC charged that Mr. Jackson, who worked at the
Torrance, Calif., printing plant of R.R. Donnelly &amp; Sons Co.,
one of the companies that prints Business Week for
McGraw-Hill Inc., traded on information from the magazine
before it hit the newsstands, and then passed the information
on to Mr. Callahan.
   U.S. District Judge Stephen V. Wilson ordered Mr. Callahan
to repay the $1,148.19 he made, plus $8,000 in commissions he
earned by trading on the information. He was also fined
$27,444.57, three times the amount he was ordered to return
and the maximum allowed under securities laws. Mr. Jackson
was ordered to repay profits of $19,506.99 and was fined
$10,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lowndes Ventures Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.LWQ
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Lowndes Queensway PLC, a U.K. retailing group,
said it has moved to seek court-appointed administrative
receivers.
   The move follows discussions with the company's bankers,
Lowndes said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lowndes Queensway, which was acquired by investment group
Lowndes Ventures in July 1989 through a leveraged buyout,
moved in January to refinance its debts. Its troubles were
exacerbated by rising U.K. interest rates and plunging
consumer demand for its furniture and household goods.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Iraq Seeks to End Dispute With Iran
   ---
   Deal Could Bolster
   Baghdad's Position
   In Confronting U.S.
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Iraq's President Saddam Hussein, apparently
looking for military security and economic help in his
confrontation with the U.S., offered stunning concessions
toward ending his long dispute with Iran.
   His offer -- to concede disputed territory to Iran and
immediately exchange prisoners of war -- seemed to be an
effort in the short run to guarantee that Iran doesn't make
any military moves that would complicate efforts to protect
Iraqi forces occupying Kuwait.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But in the long run, Iraq may well be hoping that Iran
will agree to open up their border to shipments of food and
other commodities, creating an enormous loophole in
international economic sanctions against Iraq. "There is very
clearly an Iraqi expectation that the Iranians won't go along
with international sanctions as part of this deal," said
Shaul Bakhash, an Iranian author and scholar. "And it poses
for Iran a very, very difficult dilemma."
   Tehran doesn't want Iraq to emerge from the crisis as the
Persian Gulf's superpower, but also doesn't like the growing
U.S. military presence in the Persian Gulf. In one sign that
Iran may be sympathetic to overtures from Iraq, Iranian
religious leader Ali Khamenei blasted the U.S. military
buildup in Saudi Arabia.
   Meanwhile, as President Bush prepared for a long meeting
today with Jordan's King Hussein, a potential mediator, the
U.S. showed few signs of flexibility toward Iraq. The Bush
administration appeared headed toward activation of tens of
thousands of military reservists soon to ease strains created
by the big deployment of U.S. forces to the Persian Gulf
region.
   And President Bush gave a tough speech in which he drew a
direct parallel between Saddam Hussein and Adolf Hitler.
   "A half a century ago our nation and the world paid dearly
for appeasing an aggressor who should -- and could -- have
been stopped," Mr. Bush said in an appearance at the Pentagon
for briefings on the Iraq situation. "We're not about to make
the same mistake twice."
   Mr. Bush, using rhetoric that may make it difficult for
him to ease into a negotiated settlement later, said Iraqi
soldiers who invaded Kuwait committed "atrocities" and
asserted: "Our jobs, our way of life, our own freedom and the
freedom of friendly countries around the world would all
suffer if control of the world's great oil reserves fell into
the hands of that one man, Saddam Hussein."
   Mr. Bush plans to meet for as long as two hours today with
Jordan's King Hussein at the president's vacation home in
Maine, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said. Various
Jordanian and Iraqi officials have suggested that the king is
carrying a personal message from Saddam Hussein to Mr. Bush,
but Mr. Fitzwater said the U.S. doesn't have any information
to confirm that.
   (Late yesterday, the White House announced that Mr. Bush
would meet with Prince Saud-al-Faisal, the Saudi foreign
minister, after his meeting with King Hussein. The foreign
minister will be accompanied by Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the
Saudi ambassador to the U.S.)
   Some Jordanian officials met with national security
adviser Brent Scowcroft to prepare for today's meeting,
although King Hussein himself kept a low profile in
Washington. And while various Iraqi and Jordanian spokesmen
have suggested that King Hussein is carrying a personal
message from Saddam Hussein to President Bush, U.S. officials
said the king has suggested he wants a more general
discussion of how the U.S. plans to pursue its campaign
against Iraq. "I have no reason to believe he's coming over
for anything but that -- a general discussion of the
situation," said a senior U.S. official.
   President Bush is sure to emphasize his insistence that
Jordan shut down its Red Sea port of Aqaba to shipments of
goods destined for Iraq, officials said. But they also added
that Aqaba has been quiet in the past few days, suggesting
that while Jordan hasn't shut down the flow of goods, it has
been reduced. That route is one of a dwindling number of
Iraqi commercial links to the rest of the world --
particularly after reports indicated that Turkey, another
Iraqi neighbor, has stopped thousands of tons of food and
other goods from entering Iraq.
   The worsening freeze on Iraqi commerce may have prompted
Saddam Hussein to gamble that he can win some relief from
Iran in return for concessions that could cause Iraqis to
call into question the sacrifices they made during eight
years of war with Tehran.
   Specifically, Iraq announced that Saddam Hussein sent a
letter to Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani offering to
settle the two nations' longstanding border disputes, to
withdraw Iraqi troops from the border starting tomorrow and
to exchange prisoners of war, which the Red Cross has
estimated at 50,000 Iraqis and 19,000 Iranians.
   Saddam Hussein's message essentially declared that Iran
and Iraq should settle their differences to focus on battling
the U.S. and other Western nations. He called for a "new life
of cooperation on the principles of Islam and respect of each
other's rights, so we can deter all those fishing in dirty
waters and cooperate to turn the gulf into a lake of peace,
free of foreign fleets that harbor ill intentions against
us."
   Though it wasn't clear from the letter precisely how
Saddam Hussein was proposing to settle the border disputes,
Iraq seemed to have capitulated to longstanding Iranian
demands. The message suggested returning to a 1975 border
agreement scrapped by Iraq at the start of the Iran-Iraq war.
But it also referred to following some additional
"principles" spelled out in other, undisclosed messages. That
suggested there may be strings attached to Iraq's offer that
potentially could make it unacceptable to Iran.
   Iraq still occupies some small pieces of Iranian territory
taken during the war. But far more important than return of
those lands is Iraq's apparent willingness to cede to Iran
partial control of the crucial Shatt-al-Arab waterway, Iraq's
only outlet to the Persian Gulf.
   A dispute over that waterway was at the heart of the
Iran-Iraq war. Under a 1975 agreement, Iran and Iraq agreed
to divide control of the waterway down its median line. But
Saddam Hussein abrogated that treaty in 1980 and asserted
full control of the Shatt, one of the actions that led to the
outbreak of war.
   Iran immediately expressed glee over the Iraqi move,
declaring that it amounted to a victory for Iran. But Iran's
leaders also were waiting for a delegation of Iraqi diplomats
to explain details.
   The overture toward Iran suggested that Saddam Hussein
feels vulnerable to the international forces arrayed against
him. He's in no position right now, for one thing, to worry
about a renewal of any military threat against him from Iran.
   "He's doing the same thing Hitler did, deciding not to
fight a two-front war and protecting his flanks," said George
Carver, a former official of the Central Intelligence Agency
and the State Department. Saddam Hussein may be hoping simply
for a guarantee of peaceful relations so that he can free
thousands of troops from the border with Iran and direct them
toward Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, the site of the big
international military buildup.
   But a real military threat didn't seem likely from Iran,
which is economically and politically exhausted after its
long war with Iraq. So Saddam Hussein may be hoping for
broader political gains -- namely, Iranian help in getting
food past the international economic embargo. But Iran may
not be interested in helping an enemy out of a tight spot.
"If they go along with Saddam Hussein and help him break
sanctions, he might emerge as a very militarily powerful and
economically powerful gulf leader," says Mr. Bakhash. "My
sense is that they may not go along."
   For their part, U.S. officials dismissed Iraq's overture
to Iran and were skeptical that Iran would be of much help to
Saddam Hussein. "It's something that's long been in the
works," said one senior U.S. analyst. "Both sides have
strategic reasons to want to calm that relationship." The
Iranians, he added, "may simply pocket this" concession from
Iraq without offering much in return.
   In the long run, the concessions to Iran may make it even
more important to Saddam Hussein that he keep control of
Kuwait. He now has little to show for his attack on Iran, and
control of Kuwait may become increasingly important to
demonstrate that he has secured a payoff from his military
adventures.
   In the meantime, the military pressure on Iraq doesn't
show any sign of easing. Bangladesh joined the military force
in Saudi Arabia, and the U.S. continued diplomatic
discussions with the Soviets and Western powers about forming
a United Nations naval command to conduct interdiction of
Iraqi shipping.
   An expensive call-up of U.S. reservists grew more and more
likely, with Mr. Fitzwater noting that President Bush has the
power to call up 200,000 reservists for 180 days without
congressional action. Stressing that lawmakers always
intended heavy reliance on reservists during such a Third
World crisis, Secretary Cheney apparently thinks that a
presidential decision is necessary within the next week or so
to avoid disrupting the flow of troops and hardware to the
Middle East. "The decision simply hasn't been made yet," Mr.
Cheney told reporters this week.
   The U.S. Customs Service, meanwhile, said two European
arms brokers were indicted for trying to buy and smuggle
10,000 TOW anti-tank weapons and 10,000 artillery shells for
shipment to Iraq, Iran and Libya. Carol Hallett, commissioner
of customs, said the shells -- ordered by the brokers from a
U.S. company -- were the type used to carry chemical weapons.
The company wasn't identified.
   The two brokers, Claus Fuhler, 32, an opthalmologist from
Metten, West Germany, and Juan Martin Peche-Koesters, 43, a
businessman from Barcelona, Spain, were arrested in Florida
Monday. They were lured there as part of a yearlong federal
sting operation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Privatize Deposit Insurance
   ----
   By Peter J. Wallison
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The root cause of the S&amp;L mess is the deposit insurance
system itself. While permitting private institutions to use
the federal government's credit without limit, it relies on
government supervision and regulation to correct for the fact
that depositors have no incentive to control how their funds
are used. Last week, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Chairman William Seidman announced that his agency, which
insures bank deposits, may lose an additional $2 billion this
year. There is, unfortunately, reason to believe that this is
not the last FDIC loss we will see. Nor are the banks
themselves the beneficiaries of this flawed system. This week
the FDIC announced that it would raise premiums by 63% -- an
enormous charge to bank earnings. More increases are in
prospect.
   As shown by the S&amp;L debacle, the deposit insurance system
tends to make disasters out of difficulties. In the real
economy there is a clearly understood relationship between
risk and reward, and for every category of investment --
commercial loans, home mortgages, junk bonds -- there is a
spectrum of return in which the riskiest investments are
perceived to produce the greatest rewards. Although
regulators can make rules limiting the kinds of loans
federally insured institutions can make, and supervisors can
inspect bank portfolios to assure that these rules are
observed, a loan committee or a board of directors that is
under pressure to produce high yields will almost always
prefer risky investments in the permissible categories to
prudent ones with lower yields.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This would not be a serious problem if the federal deposit
insurance system did not suppress natural market forces. In a
normally functioning credit market, investors deny funds to
institutions that have dim prospects for using them
prudently.
   As long as the incentives for taking risks are small, the
federal deposit insurance system functions satisfactorily, as
indeed it did for 50 years. But when the S&amp;Ls began to suffer
losses or diminished earnings, high-yield investments became
necessary for their continued prosperity or even survival. At
this point, the incentives to take risks overwhelmed the weak
restraints of regulation.
   Now many banks may be in a similar predicament. And if so
the engines of speculation -- fueled by federally insured
dollars -- may be revving up. Under these circumstances, the
only thing standing between the taxpayers and another
S&amp;L-type bailout is the willingness and ability of government
regulators to take tough and politically unattractive
measures when the chips are down. FSLIC blinked at the
challenge. We can only hope that bank regulators will behave
differently.
   But all this raises deeper questions. Should the taxpayers
have to gamble at such high stakes on the judgments of a few
bank regulators? Is it necessary for the government to be the
front-line insurer of banks? The answer to these questions is
no. The risks taken on by banks and S&amp;Ls can be controlled
and disciplined not by government regulators but by the
market itself -- that is, by giving someone other than the
government an incentive to assure that depository
institutions are investing prudently.
   But market discipline is easier to conceive than to
achieve. Although federal deposit insurance makes depositors
indifferent to how their funds are used, it does not
necessarily follow that making depositors worry a little will
address the system's problems. Proposals have been advanced
by some, including the American Bankers Association, to
require depositors to suffer some minimum loss in any bank or
thrift failure. This, it is thought, will force depositors to
look carefully at the banks in which they invest and place a
limit on the resources they make available to managements
unlikely to use them profitably.
   Depositors, however, are an inherently poor source of
market discipline. It is unlikely they are treating their
deposits as investments, subject to the usual risk/reward
analysis. Instead, they expect to take no risks with their
funds, and, if there are rumors of instability or possible
loss, will simply withdraw their deposits -- causing a "run."
Moreover, depositors have little effective power to
discipline management. They can withhold or withdraw funds to
be sure, but they lack the shareholders' power to remove
management and alter its policies.
   The most promising form of market discipline is private
insurance, where the premiums are related to risk. This is a
direct and effective form of market discipline since risky
behavior by management results in higher insurance costs --
directly affecting management's risk/reward calculation. As
management seeks higher profitability through greater risk,
increasing insurance premiums tax away larger and larger
portions of the benefits management is seeking. Eventually,
decreasing profitability causes the company's equity capital
to lose value, stimulating a takeover or a recapitalization
in which the management is replaced or its policies
substantially altered.
   Risk-based deposit insurance won't work, however, if it is
administered by the government. An effective system will
require the insurer to impose widely varying premiums on
institutions competing in the same market. Only if premiums
are modest at the low end and truly painful at the high end
will they have the intended effect of disciplining
management.
   The history of the S&amp;L crisis shows clearly that
regulators cannot impose differential treatment on
institutions without generating strong opposition in
Congress. When all of the current hoopla over the Keating
Five and Jim Wright blows over, we may be sure that members
of Congress will be back to putting pressure on government
agencies on behalf of constituents.
   Risk-based deposit insurance -- if administered by the
government -- would be an inevitable victim of this process.
The government insurer that assessed significantly higher
deposit insurance premiums against Bank X than against Bank Y
would face the displeasure of Bank X's congressional
supporters. Since a differential premium is essentially a
matter of an insurer's judgment, it will inevitably appear
arbitrary. Add the complications that would arise if the CEO
of Bank X were a Republican and the CEO of Bank Y were a
Democrat.
   Instead, any system of risk-based deposit insurance should
be left to the private sector, and administered through
negotiated contractual arrangements without the interference
of government. Indeed, the banking system could insure
itself, with associations or syndicates of banks formed to
guarantee the deposits of other banks in return for a
risk-based premium. The competition among syndicates -- which
would bid for the opportunity to insure particular banks at a
specified initial premium -- would assure that the premium is
based on the market's assessment of the insured institution's
inherent risk.
   The premium would be reset frequently, according to a
formula established by contract between the guarantor and the
guaranteed institutions, and would be enforced by a
comprehensive monitoring system in which the day-to-day risks
taken on by the insured institution would be incorporated in
the premium rate. Management would be able to `price' its
risk-taking, because its decisions to take on or shed risk
would have predictable consequences in terms of premium cost.
   Insurance is an option on the capital of the insurer, and
there is ample capital available in the banking system to
provide 100% insurance coverage for the deposits and other
liabilities of participating banks. The 550 largest banks and
S&amp;Ls -- those with assets in excess of $1 billion -- have
aggregate capital of approximately $165 billion. This is more
than 10 times the reserves in the FDIC and 150% of all the
capital in the property and casualty insurance industry.
Placing this aggregate capitalization behind the deposits and
other liabilities of U.S. banks and S&amp;Ls would increase their
stability and creditworthiness, lower their cost of funds,
and enhance their international competitiveness.
   Moreover, once the banking industry itself has taken
responsibility for the solvency of its individual members,
the government can function as back-up insurer. In this case,
there would be little risk to the government or the taxpayers
and the ordinary depositor would continue to have the peace
of mind conveyed by the FDIC sticker on the door.
   Thus, it is possible to design a system of real market
discipline that eliminates the current incentives for
management risk-taking, and places the risk of bank
insolvency on the private sector and not on the taxpayers.
Washington policy makers will have to understand, however,
that the federal deposit insurance system is inherently
unstable. No amount of tinkering with the current system will
eliminate the risk of a taxpayer bailout of the FDIC.
   ---
   Mr. Wallison, White House counsel and the Treasury
Department counsel during the Reagan administration, is an
attorney in Washington.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Western Union,
   Employees Reach
   Tentative Accord
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   WU LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Western Union Corp. signed a tentative
two-year agreement with the Communications Workers of
America, replacing a three-year pact covering 2,500 workers
that expired more than a week ago.
   Under the new accord, which must be approved by union
members, workers will get a 3.5% wage increase in each of the
next two years and will retain current health benefits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Western Union, which has been fighting to avoid filing for
bankruptcy because of a crushing debt problem, had been
pushing for workers to pay a bigger share of its annual
health tab. Another proposal would have eliminated
profit-sharing.
   "Workers at this company had already taken a 10% pay cut
and agreed to less vacation time," said a CWA spokesman.
"Still, the company wanted the profit-sharing plan eliminated
despite the fact that it hasn't paid a dime in years."
   The new pact keeps the profit-sharing plan in place and,
said the spokesman, "is in line with other union settlements
in the communications industry over the last two years."
   However, Western Union did get an agreement that
eliminates restrictions on hiring of outside contract
workers. And the pact allows greater use of part-time workers
at the company's central telephone bureaus where customer
orders are processed. That, said a spokesman, is important
since the company experiences "surges" at certain periods of
the day when it needs extra workers to process orders.
   "We think this is an agreement that's fair to all
concerned," he said.
   The negotiations had grown contentious in the last couple
of days after the company locked out the 2,500 unionized
workers over the weekend and replaced them with nonunion
workers. The CWA filed a complaint with the National Labor
Relations Board, charging Western Union with unfair labor
practices. The company has since rescinded the lockout and
the workers have returned to their jobs.
   Meanwhile, Western Union adjourned its annual meeting for
the fourth time since June as it struggled to win approval of
its recapitalization plan from shareholders. Western Union
plans to reconvene the meeting today at noon EDT at the
Ramada Inn in Montvale, N.J.
   The company has said it will have to seek Chapter 11
bankruptcy protection, while it works out a plan to pay its
debt, if it can't win approval of the recapitalization plan.
That plan calls for a reclassification of Western Union's
preferred stock to common shares and the exchange of new debt
securities and common stock for the company's present senior
notes covering some $530 million of a total $640 million in
debt.
   Last month, a representative for the company's bondholders
said that most would be willing to go along with the exchange
offer. That offer, which expired at midnight yesterday has
been extended until midnight Monday, Aug. 20.
   However, the company must first get stockholder approval
of the reclassification. Western Union's spokesman said the
company is close to getting the two-thirds majority vote
necessary to approve the reclassification.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FDA User Fees Are Good for Business
   ----
   By Howard D. Palefsky
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Food and Drug Administration regulates and inspects
the goods and services on which Americans spend 25% of their
personal income. It struggles to monitor more than $700
billion of economic activity with a budget of just $700
million. The situation is steadily growing more critical.
Already, the biotechnology explosion and a rise in new drug
and device applications threatens to overwhelm the agency.
   For example, because of a shortage of manpower, it takes
the FDA about 30 months to decide whether to license a new
drug or medical device. That 30 months reflects just the
waiting period, not 30 months of testing. This period can be
difficult for even the largest companies to weather and
absolutely tragic for individuals needing treatment. At the
beginning of this year, the agency was behind on 67 new drug
applications and last year alone there were more than 7,000
new medical devices submitted for approval.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The number of full-time FDA employees, excluding those
focused solely on AIDS research, has dropped by 13% since
1980. The quality of personnel also is at risk now that the
gap between private- and public-sector salaries for medical
researchers is larger than ever. Top scientists can make
between two and five times their government salaries in the
corporate or academic world.
   Growing delays in the arrival of new pharmaceutical and
medical products, coupled with a shortage of capable
scientists, could have a potentially staggering effect on the
public health, the health-care industry and the national
economy as a whole. Exports of U.S. medical products took
$1.8 billion off the trade deficit last year. America can't
afford to keep medically sound products locked in the lab.
   The health industry can help revitalize the FDA by
implementing an idea most health companies and their
lobbyists vigorously oppose. (Indeed, a few years back I was
opposed to the idea as well.)
   That idea is user fees. In view of the current budget
outlook, imposing these fees on companies submitting new
drugs and devices for approval is the best way to ensure the
FDA keeps up with its responsibilities. Regulated industries
must begin paying for some of the benefits they receive.
   With so much at stake, I do not believe the
medical-products industry can risk working under a
permanently weakened FDA. User fees are an investment with
positive returns. User fees would speed up the review
process, enabling a company to get a new product on the
market faster.
   The Bush administration has already proposed this remedy.
User fees would be paid to finance an FDA review of a new
medical product. The administration estimates that these and
other FDA-related fees could add $150 million to the agency's
annual budget. This would be a good start in alleviating many
of the staffing shortages, delays and unmet obligations now
limiting the agency's performance.
   However, it is important that FDA user fees be used to
improve the FDA, and not be used as a bait-and-switch tactic
for other interests such as purchasing B-1 bombers or
balancing the budget. If the private health-care industry is
going to finance public review, then 100% of these fees
should go back into building truly adequate health-care
regulation, and that means these fees should be added to
current appropriations -- not be a substitute.
   User fees are not the only once-forbidden idea the
health-care industry should support. Another public health
issue has been identified by Rep. Henry Waxman (D., Calif.),
who has proposed closing a 1976 loophole that allows a great
number of new medical devices to enter the market without
ever going through the proper regulatory process. Under
current practices, many health products can be sold if they
are "substantially equivalent" to another device already on
the market in 1976 -- even though the equipment already for
sale was never formally approved.
   Other than low-risk devices like bedpans, it is hard to
imagine that many new devices could be considered
"substantially equivalent" to one already on the market in
1976. Technology has changed too much since then.
   Both health-product companies and the FDA rely on the
"substantially equivalent" rule, each for its own reasons.
Manufacturers can sell a product sooner and avoid the burden
of conducting extensive tests and the FDA can escape the
time-consuming process of reviewing those tests.
   But substantial testing accomplishes more than just
keeping a few bad products off the market; it also allows
manufacturers to develop a more complete set of instructions
for physician and patient use. A well-designed but improperly
used device can be as dangerous as a device that has never
been tested. We need to close the "substantially equivalent"
loophole and put new medical devices, with real risks,
through at least some measure of FDA oversight while ensuring
that the agency has the resources to do it.
   The health care industry needs to get on the side of an
agency it is used to fighting. Our public and economic health
depend on it.
   ---
   Mr. Palefsky is president and CEO of Collagen Corp., a
Palo Alto, Calif., developer and manufacturer of medical
products for damaged skin.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford Motor to Idle
   2 Plants, Extends
   Closure of a Third
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DEARBORN, Mich. -- Ford Motor Co. said it's temporarily
idling two assembly plants and extending a temporary shutdown
of another in the face of sagging sales.
   The No.2-ranked U.S. auto maker is struggling with a slump
in car sales. The latest production cuts indicate that Ford
isn't expecting an upturn soon in sales of its autos.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The shutdowns will idle a combined 7,500 hourly employees
at the three plants. The Atlanta plant, which builds the
midsized Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable, and the Kansas City,
Mo., plant that builds the compact Ford Tempo and Mercury
Topaz will be idled the week beginning next Monday.
   The Lorain, Ohio, plant that builds the Ford Thunderbird
and Mercury Cougar midsized coupes isn't working this week
and will remain closed the week beginning Monday because of a
shortage of interior trim materials, Ford said. The plant had
been scheduled to reopen Monday.
   Ford's share of the car market has fallen 1.8 percentage
points to 20.8% in the first seven months of the year,
largely reflecting an 11.8% drop in sales of its domestic
cars.
   In the latest 10-day period, sales of the Tempo skidded
23.6% while sales of the Thunderbird plunged 45.9%. Taurus
sales rose 24.4% in the latest 10-day period, but are down
9.5% for the year.
   The production cuts come at a time when Ford's dealer
inventory levels are relatively low. At July 31, inventory
levels ranged from a 50-day supply for the Sable to a 75-day
supply for the Thunderbird. About a 60-to-65-day supply is
considered an ideal inventory level in the industry.
   Despite the lean inventories, dealers have been reluctant
to order new cars in the face of weak sales. That has forced
Ford, since April 1, to order one-week shutdowns at several
North American car assembly plants, including the two
factories that build the Taurus and Sable.
   In late May, Ford told dealers in a letter that if they
continued to hold back on orders, "it could lead to
substantial dealer {product} flow interruptions."
   Ford indicated that the shutdowns could cut a total of
about 20,200 cars from its third-quarter production
schedules.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Wages of Singapore
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   Singapore's Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew likes to draw a
sharp line between domestic and international politics. One
of the virtues of today's interlinked world, however, is that
one nation's accomplishments can help guide others. And
though Singapore is in some respects no model polity, it does
enjoy a reputation for having produced one of the world's
cleanest governments. So when Mr. Lee explains this success,
as he did in last Thursday's National Day speech, it is worth
listening.
   The basic idea, said Mr. Lee, is that if a country wants
to recruit some of its ablest citizens into government, it
must pay them what they are worth. His warning to
Singaporeans as he prepares to step down from the prime
minister's job this fall is don't be penny-wise,
pound-foolish: "Do not try to get a government on the cheap."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This is solid advice, worth heeding from Washington to
Manila -- and anyplace else where politicians are paid on a
scale that suggests they are either exceptionally charitable,
or expected to earn their serious pay in other ways. Mr. Lee
noted that "in most countries, men who go into politics are
officially very poorly paid. They get their rewards in other
ways, like commissions, kickbacks, patronage and perks." A
country that tries to scrimp on its politicians' salaries,
said Mr. Lee, "invites a lot of hypocrisy, fiddling and
eventually dishonesty and corruption.
   High pay alone won't guarantee integrity in government, of
course. It is also vital to foster a tradition of loyal
dissent, and vigorous competition for political office. A
group of entrenched legislators -- such as the current U.S.
Congress -- tends to end up serving special interests rather
than the national good. Witness the Savings and Loan
disaster, the uncuttable budget or the protectionist fervor
that periodically sweeps Congress.
   What Mr. Lee is advancing, however, is the sensible view
that government is just one of many employers competing in
the marketplace. To attract and keep good people, it is
important to take into account what they might be able to
earn with similar skills and energy in the private sector.
Otherwise a country risks the kind of defection from
government, and unwillingness to serve, that increasingly
troubles, say, the Philippines.
   Beyond attracting able men and women, decent salaries also
help reduce temptation to skim off something on the side, or
trade favors for political influence. The need to supplement
a political pittance can too easily start to tilt a
politician's judgment. The result, both in wasted resources
and slipping standards, can be quantum jumps costlier than
simply paying good people what they are worth.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford-Loral Deal
   In Pension Fund
   Is Questioned
   ---
   Pentagon May Have Claim
   To $100 Million in Sale
   Of Auto Company Unit
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz and Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   F LOR LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Pentagon investigators said they are launching
an inquiry into whether Ford Motor Co. should receive $100
million from the pension fund of the aerospace and defense
unit it recently agreed to sell to Loral Corp.
   As part of its plans to buy Ford Aerospace Corp. for $715
million and the assumption of certain obligations, Loral
agreed to let Ford keep about $100 million from Ford
Aerospace's overfunded pension fund, said persons familiar
with the transaction. The fund currently has about $300
million more than it apparently needs to meet its
obligations, these persons say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Defense Department officials said they may have a
claim to some assets in the Ford Aerospace pension funds,
because the money put into the funds was paid to Ford in
compensation for defense contracts. Thus, the officials said,
the $100 million in excess assets might have to be returned
to the government, and might not legitimately belong to the
auto maker.
   "The Department of Defense has placed a good chunk of
those funds in there," said Derek Vander Schaff, deputy
inspector general for the Defense Department. "The question
is are these companies allowed to do this with money the
government hasn't taken back out."
   Mr. Vander Schaff said the inquiry began last week and is
now in "very preliminary stages" with government auditors
reviewing the transaction.
   Ford officials confirmed the auto maker is getting some
money out of the overfunded pension as part of the pending
transaction with Loral. "We aren't transferring all of the
{pension} surplus to Loral," said Ford spokesman Thomas
Rhoades. "But we are transferring more than enough to cover
all of Ford Aerospace's employees." Ford officials declined
to specify how much the company is getting from the pension
fund, which has a total of about $1 billion in assets.
   In an interview, Loral Chairman Bernard Schwartz said the
New York-based defense electronics concern hasn't been
contacted by the Pentagon about the pension fund, but he said
he isn't concerned that it's being scrutinized. "That's their
job," he said. Mr. Schwartz also declined to specify how much
Ford would extract before transferring assets to Loral.
   The important thing, he stressed, is that Loral is set to
receive enough to meet all pension-fund obligations for
current Ford Aerospace employees as well as retirees, plus
another 50% or so. "From Loral's point of view, there is no
issue here," the chairman said. "The employees are fully
covered. Besides the pension fund, the surplus and Loral's
own balance sheet, there are also government guarantees." He
likened the situation to having both "a belt and suspenders
on."
   Despite all the assurances that Ford Aerospace employee
benefits will be left intact, the ruckus over the pension
fund has made some workers nervous. "People are very
worried," said one top Ford Aerospace official. "There is a
general distrust here since we've been sold, and those
feelings are being aimed at Ford -- not Loral.
   "It's a complicated subject, and people aren't going to be
satisfied with a few words," he added. "They want details."
   Because Ford had anticipated potential Pentagon concerns
with the use of pension money, Loral agreed to indemnify the
car company against government action. "We assessed the risk
of that happening," Mr. Schwartz said. "Ford asked for
indemnification, and we determined it was not an excessive
risk." In other words, Loral essentially will assume any
possible liability stemming from a government attempt to get
the money back. Any such effort would likely take several
years to resolve, persons close to the deal said.
   The government's claim to the pension funds involves the
amount it allows defense companies, such as Ford Aerospace,
for overhead costs in bidding for contracts. But if the
pension costs paid by the Defense Department are lower than
expected, the government often seeks to have some of the
funds returned.
   "Pension funds are either underfunded or overfunded at any
point in time," Mr. Vander Schaff said. "There's never a time
when things match up exactly."
   Federal pension laws now forbid companies from taking
assets from existing pension funds. But companies have
circumvented that by terminating pension plans and
re-establishing them under a different name. With Ford
Aerospace, there are also questions about how much money the
government could lay claim to, given that the Newport Beach,
Calif., unit derives a good portion of its profits from the
commercial satellite market.
   Moreover, Mr. Schwartz said he understands that for years,
Ford hasn't added to the pension fund any money connected
with military contracts. "I just don't know on what basis the
government can make a claim," he said. "And until they do,
I'm not going to lose any sleep over it."
   The use of overfunded pensions to help finance corporate
acquisitions has become a source of concern in Congress,
which has held several hearings on ways to limit such
transfers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Issues Injunction
   To Minkow, Officers
   In ZZZZ Best Fraud
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- A year and a half after Barry Minkow was
sentenced to a 25-year prison term, the Securities and
Exchange Commission has slapped injunctions on him and
several other officers and associates of his collapsed
carpet-cleaning firm, ZZZZ Best Co.
   In response to an SEC suit alleging various fraudulent
representations in ZZZZ Best's registration and financial
statements, Mr. Minkow and eleven other defendants agreed to
decrees permanently enjoining them from violations of various
securities laws. Two other defendants, Maurice Rind and Mark
M. Roddy, haven't signed consent decrees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The SEC said it is seeking $700,000 from Mr. Rind, the
amount paid to him by ZZZZ Best for 22 electrical generators
that were listed on the company's books as worth $2 million.
By inflating the value of the generators, ZZZZ Best was able
to obtain a listing of its securities on the National
Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System,
the SEC said. An attorney for Mr. Rind couldn't immediately
be reached for comment. Mr. Roddy, who was sentenced to five
years for his role in the ZZZZ Best affair, is in prison in
Texas and couldn't be reached for comment.
   Mr. Minkow, chairman and founder of ZZZZ Best, was
sentenced in March, 1989, to 25 years in prison and ordered
to pay $26 million in restitution for his role in the ZZZZ
Best fraud. An SEC spokeswoman said the delay in filing this
latest action came because several of the allegations weren't
in the original federal criminal case, and the allegations
took considerable time to investigate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Harrowing Ordeal for a Nightclub Owner
   ---
   Robbed and Threatened,
   Entrepreneur Fought Back
   ----
   By John R. Emshwiller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   {The second of two articles on small businesses struggling
against crime.}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   LOS ANGELES -- Dennis Lidtke found out how rough it can be
to run a small business.
   Two years ago, a gunman robbed $40,000 from the safe of
the Palace Nightclub here, which Mr. Lidtke operates. Only
two months later, masked gunmen held Mr. Lidtke and his wife
hostage at their home while accomplices cleaned out the club
safe again.
   Next, two men allegedly told Mr. Lidtke to give up partial
control of his business and fork over $50,000 -- or face a
beating.
   Such horrifying experiences aren't unprecedented. Small
businesses have long been targets for such crimes as
extortion, fraud, loan-sharking and money laundering --
sometimes committed by individuals and sometimes by organized
crime. Entrepreneurs often wonder how -- or if -- they can
fight back.
   Mr. Lidtke paid the money the criminals demanded. But,
unlike many entrepreneurs, he also went to the police. He
didn't get total satisfaction, but he didn't waste his time
either. Three men were eventually indicted for extortion and
other crimes against Mr. Lidtke and other businessmen.
   In a plea bargain, one defendant, John Scotto, pleaded no
contest to a felony count, possession of a forged document
with intent to defraud. He also agreed to resign from the
state bar and sell his interest in two restaurants, says John
Monaghan, the deputy district attorney who handled the case.
   The other two defendants, Leonard Passafaro and Natale
Cardino, pleaded no contest to attempting to extort another
businessman. Each of the three agreed to prison terms of up
to 16 months and face formal sentencing within the next
several weeks.
   Law enforcement authorities apparently fear that the
alleged extortion of Mr. Lidtke may have been part of a wider
Mafia move into Los Angeles in recent years.
   According to an affidavit by a Los Angeles Police
Department organized-crime investigator, filed in connection
with the Lidtke case, police here three years ago launched an
investigation into "the suspected infiltration" by the Mafia
into Los Angeles area businesses, particularly restaurants,
nightclubs and bars.
   Early on, the police came across Mr. Scotto, one of the
defendants in the Lidtke case, says the affidavit, filed in
county municipal court here. The 29-year-old Mr. Scotto, a
local attorney, is the son of Anthony Scotto, a former New
York labor leader, a convicted criminal and a captain in the
Gambino crime family, according to the affidavit.
   In January, 1987, Los Angeles police stopped John Scotto
while he was driving with a reputed East Coast Mafia figure,
the affidavit states. The alleged crime figure told an
undercover police informant that he was interested in Los
Angeles night clubs as a way to launder cocaine profits, the
document adds.
   An attorney for Mr. Scotto declined to comment on any
aspect of this story.
   The 54-year-old Mr. Lidtke says thoughts of mobsters were
far from his mind when he got involved with the Palace more
than a decade ago. Mr. Lidtke owned a graphic-design business
and had long been active in efforts to restore Hollywood's
badly faded glamour.
   The Palace was built in the 1920s as one of Hollywood's
first legitimate theaters. "Just about every legend from
Sinatra and Garland to Armstrong and Crosby performed at the
Palace," says Mr. Lidtke.
   Mr. Lidtke says he bought it in 1979 to help save it from
the wrecking ball. He turned it into an entertainment complex
with a nightclub, restaurant and film and video production
facilities.
   Mr. Lidtke says that besides investing most of his
personal wealth in the project, he raised $1.5 million
through a limited partnership. The partnership, whose
investors were mainly New Yorkers, took title to the
building.
   Despite its aesthetic successes, the project has had
serious financial problems. The company owned by Mr. Lidtke
that manages the Palace recently filed for protection from
creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code,
its second such filing in the past six years. The company is
hundreds of thousands of dollars in arrears on rents to the
limited partnership, a matter that is part of litigation
between Mr. Lidtke and the partners in a Los Angeles state
court.
   But Mr. Lidtke contends he was making progress in getting
the Palace on firmer footing when "all hell broke loose" in
early 1988.
   For one thing, the limited partnership hired Mr. Scotto to
represent it in the festering rent dispute. He and Mr. Lidtke
initially worked out a new rent schedule and Mr. Lidtke
agreed to resign as general partner of the building
partnership if his company fell in arrears.
   Subsequently, the Palace suffered the two major robberies.
In the first, Mr. Lidtke says his wife, Beverly, came to the
office one Monday morning to find an armed robber waiting,
who forced her to open the Palace safe.
   As a result, Mr. Lidtke says he couldn't keep current on
the Palace's rent, and Mr. Scotto filed an action to evict
Mr. Lidtke's company. However, according to lawyers for Mr.
Lidtke and the limited partnership, the eviction effort
failed because Mr. Scotto served the wrong type of notice on
Mr. Lidtke.
   About two months after the first robbery, the Lidtkes came
home to find two masked robbers with semi-automatic weapons,
says Mr. Lidtke. The Lidtkes were bound and held for eight
hours while the robbers ransacked the house and phoned a
confederate at the Palace with the new combination to the
safe.
   During the ordeal, the two robbers cracked open a few
beers and chatted with their victims. "They told us they were
hired out of New York and paid $10,000 to clean us out," says
Mr. Lidtke. He says the two were familiar enough with the
Palace situation to suggest at one point that Mr. Lidtke sell
out to his partners in New York.
   Though no one has been charged with the robberies, Mr.
Monaghan, the deputy district attorney, says he believes the
thefts were connected to the extortion effort. However, he
adds, there isn't any evidence that the limited partners were
involved in any wrongdoing. Mr. Monaghan says he believes Mr.
Scotto eventually hoped to take over the Palace himself.
   In September 1988, two men claiming to represent the
interests of the limited partners contacted Mr. Lidtke and
requested a meeting, says the police affidavit. In his office
conference room, Mr. Lidtke and a partner met with the men,
whom police later identified as Mr. Passafaro and Mr.
Cardino.
   The two demanded that Mr. Lidtke resign as general partner
of the Palace limited partnership and pay $50,000, says the
police affidavit. The two men told him to go see Mr. Scotto
to settle things, according to the affidavit. One also told
Mr. Lidtke: "I know where you live, where you go, your wife,
everything," adding that Mr. Lidtke might face a "beating."
Mr. Lidtke says he was scared enough to pay the $50,000.
   But he and his partner also had the presence of mind to
provide the police with hard evidence of extortion. The two
secretly tape-recorded the meeting with Mr. Passafaro and Mr.
Cardino. Mr. Lidtke says he also had the conference table's
glass top cleaned beforehand to better pick up fingerprints
from the men.
   After a lengthy preliminary hearing on the charges against
Mr. Scotto and Mr. Passafaro, a state court judge found
sufficient evidence of guilt to order a full trial. Then,
however, the three reached a plea bargain with the district
attorney.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Lidtke says he is still nervous enough to
keep an armed guard at his home.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of New York's Petition to Acquire
   Northeast Bancorp Is Denied by Fed
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease and Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   BK NBIC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Federal Reserve Board denied Bank of New York Co.'s
petition to acquire Northeast Bancorp, ending a bitter
dispute between the two banks over what constituted a fair
price for Northeast.
   The Fed said that even at the $195.6 million price that
Bank of New York has said it would be willing to pay for
Northeast, the acquisition would hurt Bank of New York's
ability to maintain a strong capital position.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When the banks first reached a tentative agreement on the
purchase last year Bank of New York said it would pay 250% of
Northeast's book value. Northeast, which is the parent of
Union Trust Co., Connecticut's third-biggest commercial bank,
claimed a book value of $33.53 a share as recently as March
30, 1990, which would indicate a purchase price of about $500
million.
   But Bank of New York has been arguing for some time that
Northeast's true book value was something more closely akin
to $12.31 a share, based on the deteriorating outlook for its
real estate loan portfolio. Some analysts suggested that Bank
of New York was more interested in calling off the deal than
proceeding. Earlier this year Northeast sued Bank of New York
in an effort to force it to complete the merger agreement or
pay damages.
   During the course of the dispute Northeast's shares have
fluctuated from a high of $72, when the deal appeared
ironclad, to a low of $14.50. Yesterday's decision came after
the stock market closed. Northeast stock closed yesterday at
$17.50, up $2, in national over-the-counter trading. Bank of
New York said that in light of the Fed decision "the
acquisition cannot proceed." Officials of Northeast couldn't
be reached.
   The Fed decision ends the dispute between the two banks,
but raises questions about the ability of Bank of New York
and other large banks to make acquisitions. The Fed noted in
its decision that it "expects banking organizations
contemplating expansion proposals to maintain strong capital
levels substantially above the minimum levels specified in
the board's capital adequacy guidelines. . . ." Bank of New
York's proposed acquisition of Northeast "is inconsistent"
with that policy, the Fed said.
   Yet bankers and bank analysts agree that one of the basic
solutions to the banking industry's mounting problems is a
massive wave of consolidation that permits banks to slash
overhead costs while expanding their market reach. But that
consolidation may be jeopardized by the inability of many
proposed mergers to meet the Fed's capital guideline tests.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM Unit Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GME
</CO>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Corp.'s Electronic Data Systems
unit said it signed a 10-year contract with Permian Corp. to
manage the oil and gas distribution company's information
technology.
   Terms of the transaction weren't disclosed. EDS said the
contract is its sixth since entering the energy industry
information-technology field.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Bush Economy
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   George Bush has a bigger problem than Saddam Hussein: The
economy, slowing down even before the Iraqi oil shock, now is
slouching toward recession on his watch.
   Ronald Reagan inherited stagflation, turned it around and
kept the recovery going. President Bush inherited a healthy
economy, but now it's grinding down. Granted that recoveries
weaken with age and that rising oil prices hurt, but the
looming pain also says something about the Bush team's
economic policies. After all, the Bush administration has
supplanted the Reagan economic policies with its own.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The differences are of nuance, of course, but that's what
makes markets. The centerpiece of the Reagan economic
policies was tax cuts to provide incentives for growth; other
objectives were secondary. The Bush people want a
capital-gains tax cut too, but this is secondary to a
different holy grail: reducing the deficit.
   This was evident even in President Bush's press conference
Tuesday. He was courageous in promising spending vetoes, and
made the right revenue-enhancing arguments for a lower tax
rate on capital gains. But even with the economy flirting
with recession, these measures were tethered to a
deficit-reduction agreement with the nabobs of Congress.
Treasury Secretary Brady, no doubt reflecting the private
sentiment of the administration as a whole, couples this with
a tie for easier money. We should have learned from the '70s
that monetary policy should not validate oil-price increases.
   Now, preoccupation with deficits and interest rates might
be fine in an ideal world of brisk growth in the economy and
good will in Congress. Sooner or later the federal government
needs to get a handle on its liabilities, as the Brady-Darman
policy axis keeps insisting. A smaller deficit also would
increase the world's savings pool, a good thing.
   But Brady-Darman has bought into a debt paranoia that
defies economic logic. The nearby chart compares the public
debt burdens of the major industrial nations. The U.S. debt
is hardly beyond the pale. And while the U.S. burden has
grown in the 1980s, it actually was much higher in the
post-World War II decades of rapid economic growth. Besides,
if Japan's debt experience is any guide, neither interest
rates nor growth depend on government debt.
   Other things count for more, such as tax policies that
reward investment. Rather than force-feed savings to induce
investment, the better policy is to increase the
opportunities for return on investment, and savings will
follow. If some of those savings come from overseas, so what?
In today's global economy, savings will go where the best
opportunities are.
   Jawboning the Fed for easy money, meanwhile is downright
harmful, curbing the Fed's flexibility to ease if it wanted
to. Secretary Brady's public call last week to "avoid an over
single-minded emphasis on inflation" sounded to us a lot like
Secretary Blumenthal of the Carter administration. To the
markets too, apparently, since gold shot over $400, while the
dollar sank to trade at a record-breaking low against the
German mark. As for interest rates, after the Fed nudged
short-term rates down a fraction of a point last month, the
bond market slumped. If nothing else, this is no way to fight
a war.
   If the current White House debt preoccupation is
economically marginal, it may prove politically suicidal.
While the President tried to seize the offensive Tuesday, the
Democrats have played the budget summit beautifully,
appearing to be responsible by talking but opening up the
spending spigots on Capitol Hill. Despite veto threats,
appropriations bills have been coming in with double-digit
increases. Meanwhile, Republicans debate a tax-a-week among
themselves. The President's press conference offers some
reason to hope he will spotlight spending, but the
administration has often sounded as if it's talking itself
into a tax increase veiled with smoke-and-mirror spending
cuts. We would be a lot more confident that it won't revert
to this mode if it talked less about trimming the deficit to
lower interest rates and more about spending itself, to lower
the government's claims on the private economy.
   The Iraqi invasion changes everything, providing the
occasion to get general economic policy back on track. The
oil shock pushes at once toward inflation and recession, and
the White House needs a strategy to push back against both.
Our answer is the same one we and others promoted to cure the
stagflation of the '70s. On the monetary side, that means
resisting the siren song of easy money. On fiscal policy it
means putting tax cuts back to the center of the policy
debate. While 28% is low enough as a top rate, the
capital-gains cut would do a lot to curb recession. If the
Democrats' price for a capital-gains cut is the Moynihan
proposal to cut the payroll tax, that would help low-wage
workers.
   The Reagan policy mix helped elect George Bush on a
national ticket three times. By abandoning that mix, he risks
the fate of the candidates who offered high taxes and easy
money under the rubric of "responsibility."
   ---
                     The Bush Economy
                                                                                                       

     Gross Public Debt as a Percent of Nominal GNP/GDP
                                                                                                       

  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
                                                                                                       

 U.S.
  37.2  41.4  44.2  45.2  48.3  51.1  51.6  51.4  51.4  59.9
                                                                                                       

 Japan
  57.1  61.1  66.9  68.4  69.1  72.8  75.5  71.8  68.0  63.8
                                                                                                       

 Germany
  36.3  39.5  40.9  41.5  42.2  42.4  43.7  44.4  42.7  42.1
                                                                                                       

 France
  36.4  40.1  41.4  43.8  45.4  45.4  47.3  47.5  47.3  46.9
                                                                                                       

 Italy
  61.0  66.3  71.9  77.1  84.0  88.5  92.7  95.0  97.0  99.3
                                                                                                       

 U.K.
  54.5  53.1  53.3  54.8  53.3  51.9  49.5  44.0  39.6  37.0
                                                                                                       

 Canada
  45.1  50.1  56.1  58.8  64.6  68.6  68.8  68.5  69.2  70.0
                                                                                                       

   Source: OECD
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   In last Thursday's chart showing OECD data on gross public
debt as a percent of nominal gross national product, the
figure for the United States for 1990 should have been 50.9%,
not 58.9%.
   (WSJ Aug. 20, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices End Little Changed After Session
   Of Volatile Trading Tied to Moves in Oil Market
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Christopher B. Wilcock
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   OI CMDA JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The bond market bounced around yesterday, with
prices of long-term issues rising and falling in the inverse
direction of oil prices.
   "It was a volatile day of trading," said Kevin Flanagan,
money market analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. The bond
market changed directions several times, he said, as crude
oil price gyrated wildly in reaction to continuously changing
news concerning the Persian Gulf crisis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In early trading, when oil prices fell on rumors that
Mideast tensions were easing, the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond jumped nearly 3/4 point. That amounted to a gain
of $7.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount.
   Two economic reports released by the Federal Reserve
spurred some buying in the bond market because they provided
additional evidence that the economy is losing momentum. The
report on industrial production said that output at the
nation's factories, mines and utilities was flat in July. The
Fed also reported that industry used less of its capacity in
July production than it had in June, another indication of
slack.
   Bond prices suddenly reversed directions and fell one full
point as crude oil futures prices spiked up one dollar a
barrel to about $26.75. Declining prices of bond futures
exacerbated selling in the cash market.
   The bond market reversed directions again in midafternoon
as oil prices fell to about $26 a barrel on reports that
Saudi Arabia is working on a formula to allow the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to produce 22.5
million barrels a day, just below the production rate before
the Kuwait invasion.
   Turmoil in the Middle East has driven oil prices higher in
recent weeks, increasing the chances that inflation will
accelerate, which reduces the value of fixed-income
investments such as bonds.
   After zigzagging all day long, both oil and bond prices
actually finished little changed from Tuesday's closing
prices.
   The benchmark 30-year bond ended 1/8 point higher on the
day while the issue's yield, which moves in the opposite
direction from its price, eased to 8.76% from 8.77% on
Tuesday.
   Yesterday's volatility may have worried some investors,
but traders and dealers were in good spirits.
   "It was a good professional trading day," said Steven I.
Saslow, a trading manager at Carroll McEntee &amp; McGinley Inc.
"Traders tend to complain if nothing is going on because
there's no opportunity {to make much money}. But the dealer
community makes more money when there is volatility than when
things are quiet." That's because customers don't haggle much
over trading costs when prices are changing rapidly for fear
that the market will move against them.
   Analysts expect the bond market to remain somewhat
volatile in the near term as events in the Middle East
continue to unfold and as economic reports fail to provide
new clues about how the economy is faring.
   "Investors are groping for some direction," said Dean
Witter's Mr. Flanagan. "Everybody is trying to figure out
where the economy is heading. Some say we're in a recession
right now, others say we'll have a recession in a month or
two and others believe we aren't in a recession and won't
have a recession." For investors, he said, "there is still a
lot of confusion."
   On the economic calendar for today are reports on July
consumer prices, real earnings and housing starts. Also due
today are weekly claims for unemployment insurance.
   The consumer price index is expected to have risen 0.3% in
July, while housing starts are seen unchanged at a 1.18
millionunit rate, according to surveys of economists by Dow
Jones Capital Markets Report.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   It was a volatile day of trading for long-term bonds
yesterday, but short-term securities posted just modest
prices moves during yesterday's session.
   The benchmark 30-year bond -- which rose as much as 3/4
point and fell as much as one point yesterday -- ended at a
price of 99 25/32, up from 99 21/32 on Tuesday. The yield on
the benchmark bonds eased slightly to 8.76% from 8.77%.
   Two-year notes, however, were unchanged at a price of 100
3/32 to yield 7.93%.
   Treasury bills also were little changed from Tuesday. The
discount rate on three-month bills was 7.46% for a
bond-equivalent yield of 7.69% while the rate on six-month
bills was 7.35% for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.72%.
                                                                                                       

   Junk Bonds

   Earnings reports steered the junk bond market yesterday,
driving many actively traded high-yield bonds higher.
   Most junk bonds, high-yield, high-risk corporate
securities that have low credit ratings or no credit ratings
at all, ended mixed.
   Among junk-bond issues, key advancers included
Owens-Illinois Inc., which gained after the glass-maker
reported strong third-quarter earnings. The company's 12.25%
senior subordinated notes closed 1/2 point higher at 93 3/4
while its 13.45% senior notes ended 1 point higher at 99.
   The cash-paying junk bonds of Charter Medical Corp.
sprinted higher despite the company's reporting a large
pretax loss from continuing operations. Analysts said the
hospital-management company's bonds improved after it assured
bondholders that it will make $39 million in interest
payments due today on two bond issues.
   Market participants had not expected the company to make
the payments. Charter Medical's 14% debentures closed 1/2
point higher at 37 while the 14.25% debentures climbed 2
points to end at 26.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bonds finished flat to 3/8 point higher.
   In light new-issue activity, the Tennessee Housing
Development Agency's $78.6 million single-family mortgage
revenue bonds were won by a Merrill Lynch Capital Markets
group in competitive bidding.
   The bonds were priced at par to yield from 6.20% in 1992
to 7.625% in 2022.
   In secondary dealings, the New Jersey Turnpike Authority's
7.20% issue of 2018 finished 3/8 higher at 98 3/4, nudging
the yield down to 7.28% from 7.32% late Tuesday.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-, Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-backed securities closed up on the day, but off
their session highs.
   As in the Treasury market, mortgage securities were all
over the board, rising to their session highs early in the
day, then plunging to their lows before rebounding to post
modest gains.
   Among secondary issues, in late trading Government
National Mortgage Association 9.5% securities were up 2/32 at
99 16/ 32, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 9.5% issues were
up 1/32 at 99, and Federal National Mortgage Association 9.5%
issues were up 1/32 at 99 17/32.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The Japanese government-bond market ended firmer yesterday
thanks to a brief short-covering rally. But many analysts
believe that the market will soon resume its downward trend
due to additional supply.
   Investors rushed to buy bonds yesterday after news reports
suggested that tensions in the Mideast could soon be
resolved. That eased inflation fears and caused investors to
purchase bonds in an effort to cover short sale positions. In
a short sale, dealers sell borrowed securities and later seek
to make a profit by replacing what was borrowed with cheaper
securities. Essentially, these dealers were betting that
prices would fall.
   The short-covering rapidly ran out of steam as the markets
began to discount some of the earlier news reports.
   At the close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the yield on the
benchmark No. 119 10-year bond was 7.87%. The price rose 0.68
points to 84.02. (When calculated using the semi-annual
compound method, the yield on the No. 119 bond ended at
7.29%, according to Salomon Brothers Inc.)
   But traders said the Japanese bond rally may not continue.
They note that the Japanese government will sell between 500
billion yen ($3.36 billion) to 700 billion yen of new 10-year
bonds next week and they worry that the market will sell off
sharply ahead of the big bond sale.
   The coupon rate on the September issue is expected to be
between 7.3% to 7.4%, much higher than the 6.7% rate set for
the August bond.
   Although the higher rate is considered attractive, "it is
too risky for investors to buy Japanese government bonds
right now" said one trader, noting the crisis in the Middle
East and the market's edginess about the Bank of Japan's
monetary policy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Two Ex-Owners
   Of Failed Thrift
   Guilty of Fraud
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TIN
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- The former owners of the defunct Guaranty
Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association of Dallas were convicted
of bank fraud and other charges after a three-month trial
that included 18 days of jury deliberations.
   Paul Sau-Ki Cheng and Edward Heath were convicted of
charges related to Guaranty Federal's financing of a Florida
property owned by the two men's closely held company, Pacific
Realty Corp. Guaranty Federal was an affiliate of Pacific
Realty until the thrift failed in September 1988 with almost
$2 billion in assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federal regulators attributed the thrift's failure to
risky real estate ventures, such as the Florida deal, and
Messrs. Cheng's and Heath's failed attempt to acquire
Houston-based U.S. Home Corp. in 1986 through Pacific Realty.
   The attempted takeover of U.S. Home resulted in about
$68.5 million in losses at Guaranty Federal, according to a
civil lawsuit pending against Messrs. Cheng and Heath and
now-defunct Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., which was U.S.
Home's investment banker.
   The lawsuit, filed in February in Dallas federal court by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., also alleges that
Messrs. Cheng and Heath diverted profits from trading in
government securities to entities they controlled while
saddling Guaranty Federal with losses from the trades.
   The allegations in the civil lawsuit are unrelated to the
criminal charges on which Messrs. Cheng and Heath were
convicted. The criminal charges included bank fraud,
misapplication of thrift funds and wire fraud stemming from
Guaranty Federal's $10 million loan for the Florida property.
   A portion of the charges dealt with false information
provided by Messrs. Cheng and Heath in order to obtain an
inflated appraisal of the Florida property to justify the
loan. U.S. Justice Department prosecutor Robert Hauberg, of
the Dallas Bank Fraud Task Force, said the convictions of the
two men are significant because false-appraisal charges
typically are difficult to prove to a jury.
   Mr. Cheng, 35 years old, was found guilty of 10 separate
charges and faces a maximum possible sentence of 70 years in
federal prison. Edward Heath, 36, was convicted of 10 charges
and faces a maximum possible sentence of 80 years in federal
prison.
   Both men were acquitted of conspiracy and a handful of
other, lesser charges.
   Guaranty Federal and two other failed Texas thrifts were
sold in September 1988 to a joint venture led by
Temple-Inland Inc. of Diboll, Texas. Temple-Inland has since
bought out its joint-venture partners and is sole owner of
the thrift, now known as Guaranty Federal Savings Bank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   ICI Sells Its Stake
   In Enterprise Oil
   To 2 Securities Firms
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   ICI U.ETP F.AQU EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Taking advantage of the bull market in oil,
Imperial Chemical Industries PLC sold its 24.9% stake in
Enterprise Oil PLC to two British securities firms, Warburg
Securities Ltd. and Cazenove &amp; Co., for #679.6 million ($1.29
billion).
   The two companies immediately sold the 113.3 million
shares for a total of #687.7 million to about 80 institutions
in what apparently was the largest "bought deal," or crossed
trade, in U.K. history. Most of the institutions were
British, although there were some U.S. and Japanese buyers,
said Phillip Ellick, a director of Warburg, the lead broker
in the deal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sale is a check to Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine,
the French state-controlled energy and chemical company,
which earlier this year had sought to buy ICI's Enterprise
stake. Elf currently owns 25.2% of the British North Sea oil
producer, whose earnings are expected to jump because of the
Persian Gulf oil crisis.
   ICI made an estimated #500 million on the sale, said Colin
Short, an executive director. ICI acquired the stake in 1987
by selling its oil and gas interests to Enterprise.
   The sale of the Enterprise stake had been expected for
some time. ICI, which has moved aggressively into specialty
chemicals to offset cycles in the bulk chemical business, has
been shedding peripheral lines.
   By fragmenting the Enterprise stake among dozens of
holders, ICI and its brokers apparently averted a political
problem that might have arisen if a majority interest in a
British oil company was acquired by a foreign
state-controlled entity.
   Enterprise contributed #37.1 million to ICI's #1.53
billion 1989 pretax profit. Given the sharp rise in oil
prices recently, it might have added #60 million this year
and up to #75 million in 1991, said Dion Steward, an analyst
at Paribas Capital Markets Group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southland Offer
   On Debt Expires;
   Extension Is Likely
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   SLCTC IYCOY J.SEV
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Southland Corp.'s debt exchange offer and the
buy-out offer from its Japanese suitor both expired at
midnight last night without completion, but most observers
expect both offers to be extended at least a week.
   Investment bankers involved in the deals wouldn't indicate
how many of the bondholders have agreed to accept the
exchange offer. John Gordon, the chairman of the bondholder
committee, said he expects the offers to be extended.
Furthermore, he said, holdouts who oppose the latest debt
swap, while troublesome, won't kill the deal. "One way or
another, this deal will be done," said Mr. Gordon of Deltec
Securities Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, the parties negotiating the deals have
contemplated the possibility of a "pre-packaged" Chapter 11
bankruptcy proceeding as a way to eliminate the problem of
holdouts without substantially changing the terms of the
agreement. The offer, the fourth put forth by Southland and
the first approved by the bondholder committee, would give
bondholders about 25% of the common stock of the company. The
founding Thompson family of Dallas would get about 5% of the
stock and Ito-Yokado, operator of 7-Eleven stores in Japan,
would get about 70% for $430 million.
   Southland, the troubled parent of the 7-Eleven convenience
store chain, went into default on its $1.8 billion publicly
traded debt in mid-July, but avoided being forced into
bankruptcy at that time by getting a tentative approval from
the bondholder committee for the most recent exchange offer.
Banks and other creditors would receive full payment under
the plan.
   The Thompson family, which now owns slightly more than
two-thirds of the company, would see its stake shrink under
the offer to 5%, or about a $25 million investment from about
$163 million. The family members took about $200 million out
of Southland in the $4.9 billion leveraged buyout that took
the company private in late 1987 to avoid a possible hostile
bid by the Belzberg family of Canada.
   According to the offering documents filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, John P. Thompson, Jere W.
Thompson and Joe C. Thompson Jr. will receive five-year
employment contracts from the new owners providing annual
base salaries of $600,000 each, plus an annual bonus equal to
about $360,000 each. In addition, Jere and John will receive
the benefits given other executives. Also, five-year recourse
loans of about $32 million will be provided to the Thompsons
at no interest.
   Southland owns about 6,700 7-Eleven and other convenience
stores in the U.S. and Canada. Increased competition eroded
sales and profit margins and made it difficult for the
company to service the huge debt from the buy-out.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cut in Ratings
   Of Japan Debt
   Spills Into U.S.
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.FUJ J.DKB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Fallout from the downgrading earlier this week
of two of the largest Japanese banks' long-term debt ratings
spread to the municipal debt market. Moody's Investors
Service Inc. downgraded $13.3 billion in the debt of many
U.S. municipalities backed by the Japanese banks' credit.
   The municipal debt downgradings were touched off by
Moody's downgradings earlier this week of long-term debt
ratings for Fuji Bank Ltd. and Dai-Ich Kangyo Bank Ltd. to
double-A-1 from triple-A. The reduction of long-term debt
ratings in turn triggered a similar reduction in the
letter-of-credit ratings at the two banks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Typically, American cities and towns that have poor credit
ratings find it worthwhile to pay a fee to better-rated banks
to back their debt with the banks' own name. The banks do so
by issuing letters of credit.
   Moody's action yesterday affects only the debt backed by
the two Japanese banks and does not necessarily affect the
overall credit rating of the municipalities. However, the
downgrading of these two Japanese banks and several others
earlier reduces the number of triple-A rated institutions
available to back debt issued by American cities. As a
result, those cities may have to pay higher rates when they
borrow in future.
   Dai-Ichi is the world's largest bank by asset size; Fuji
is the fourth largest.
   Laura Levenstein, assistant vice president at Moody's,
said the letter of credit and subsequent municipal debt moves
were the logical outcome of the long-term debt changes.
   "The letter of credit ratings rank equally with the
long-term debt ratings, so when long-term ratings come down
so do the letter of credit ratings," she said.
   Moody's said earlier that it downgraded Dai-Ichi Kangyo's
long-term debt rating because of its relatively high
real-estate exposure in Japan, rising interest rates and high
overhead ratio. The credit-rating service reduced Fuji's debt
ratings because of its lower core profitability and higher
risk profile compared with its peer banks.
   Japanese banks have been among the most aggressive issuers
of letters of credit and other guarantees in the U.S. in
recent years. To a large extent they capitalized on their
superior credit ratings to provide letters of credit at
prices that undercut U.S. banks, most of which aren't
top-rated credit risks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar, Reversing Early Decline, Rises
   Against Mark on Rumor of Intervention
   ----
   By Thomas L. Waite
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA FREST JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar rose against the mark after falling
to a historical low on profit-taking. Rumors of central bank
intervention helped prop up the greenback.
   The only clear winner, dealers said, was the yen, which
gained against all major currencies. High-yield currencies,
such as the British pound and the Canadian dollar, also
benefited.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The dollar was last quoted in New York at 1.5660 marks and
1.3065 Swiss francs, up from 1.5645 marks and 1.3040 francs
late Tuesday in New York.
   The U.S. currency, however, declined to 147.65 yen from
148.78 yen in New York late Tuesday. And sterling closed at
$1.9006, up from $1.8981 late Tuesday.
   In Tokyo Thursday, the dollar was trading soon after the
opening at 147.55 yen, down from Wednesday's Tokyo close of
147.85 yen. Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about
1.5688 marks; in Tokyo Wednesday, it closed at 1.5618 marks.
   David Gilmore, a foreign exchange analyst for McCarthy,
Crisanti &amp; Maffei, said after having bought the dollar for
two weeks in reaction to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, the New
York market Tuesday and other centers yesterday were
"perfectly set up for this kind of move" to a new, post-World
War II low against the mark.
   "We haven't been selling dollars for some time," he said.
Late Tuesday, the possibility of a peaceful solution to the
Persian Gulf standoff was dangled before financial markets,
providing the opportunity that itchy sellers had been waiting
for.
   About 45 minutes after New York trading rooms got into
full swing yesterday, the dollar hit 1.5525 marks, almost an
entire pfennig below its previous, all-time bottom of 1.5615
marks set on Jan. 4, 1988. After that, it was all uphill.
   Some controversy surrounded the dollar's sharp rebound.
The level of 1.5525 marks -- though it will now take on
importance -- wasn't considered a technical support prior to
yesterday, so the reversal scared up rumors concerning just
about every foreign-exchange fear.
   Rumors in the U.S. and U.K. that the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York had intervened to buy dollars were matched in
Germany by talk that the Deutsche Bundesbank had done the
same. New York dealers who never believed the Fed rumor were
nevertheless convinced by rumors that some large speculative
players, led by Bank Negara, Malaysia's central bank, were
taking profits on the dollar's decline.
   What was certain, said Bill Arnold, Chemical Bank's chief
dealer, was that after their dollar-bashing Tuesday, New York
traders had finally become short, or oversold, on dollars and
wanted to take their pay. "It was a correction in the trend.
The dollar comes down five pfennigs; it has to come up one
pfennig."
   Added Erik Lehtis, a New York trader for France's Credit
Agricole, "there were a lot of nervous people who were short
dollars and saw a good opportunity to take profits."
   The dollar was already creeping higher when rumors about
central bank intervention spread through the market about 10
a.m. EDT and pushed the dollar even higher. The New York Fed
calls dealers every morning to check levels and did so again
yesterday, said Mr. Gilmore of McCarthy Crisanti.
   "Obviously, someone who wanted to take more profits
decided to call the checking a Fed intervention," he
suggested.
   A U.S. central bank spokesman declined to comment on the
rumor, in accordance with policy.
   Chemical Bank's Mr. Arnold said he dismissed the rumor as
spurious. "Everyone knows the Fed doesn't intervene without
the Treasury's backing and the Treasury isn't interested in a
higher dollar."
   A cheaper dollar, added Mr. Gilmore, "fits in the
Treasury's game plan" to stimulate the export sector of the
U.S. economy.
   Meanwhile, the Bundesbank, with its eye on the price
pressures caused by the union of the two Germanys, wants the
strongest mark it can get, Mr. Arnold said.
   As for the dollar, Mr. Lehtis of Credit Agricole, said
"the U.S. economy is bad but may not be as bad as everyone is
moaning and groaning about." The prospect of a U.S. recession
has been the primary reason for the dollar's weakness, along
with the prospect that the Fed will ease credit policy to
stave off that recession.
   New evidence released yesterday was inconclusive. The rate
of U.S. industrial production didn't budge in July, after
gearing up by 0.4% in June and 0.6% in May. But the news that
business inventories shrank by 0.4% in June suggested that
U.S. factories have room to pick up the pace.
   Along with the dollar, the mark, pound, and Swiss franc
all fell against the Japanese currency to 94.28 yen, 280.54
yen and 112.90 yen, respectively, from 95.14 yen, 282.37 yen
and 114.13 yen Tuesday.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $402.60 an ounce, down $2.20. Estimated
volume was a heavy 5.8 million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Thursday, gold was quoted at
$403.75 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Swamped IRS Seeks Corporations' Help
   ---
   Firms Are Asked To
   Cooperate in Expediting Audits
   ----
   By Peter Pae and Scott R. Schmedel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Internal Revenue Service, outgunned and outmanned, is
trying a little glasnost in dealing with big corporations.
   The tax agency is asking large corporate taxpayers for
more help and cooperation in handling major tax audits. The
idea is to speed up collections while eliminating contentious
disputes that can drag through the courts for years -- and
frequently result in losses for the IRS.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But welcoming the IRS embrace puts corporations in
something of a quandary: they applaud efforts to simplify
audits and eliminate delays, but fear the program ultimately
could result in more frequent audits, higher taxes and more
litigation.
   A lot of money is at stake. The IRS already generates
about $10 billion a year in tax assessments from large
companies -- about half the revenue from all audits -- while
it devotes only 27% of its resources to the task.
   The beefed-up program generally has the support of
accountants and corporate tax experts, but they remain
cautious on some points. William M. Burk, president of the
Tax Executives Institute Inc., composed of 4,300 corporate
tax executives, recently told the IRS that "unless taxpayers
can be convinced that the IRS's initiatives are quality- not
revenue-driven, the likelihood of long-term, systemic gains
is remote." Mr. Burk is director of domestic taxes for CPC
International Inc., Englewood Cliffs, N.J.
   The IRS's new audit program "appears to be a virtual
assurance that the audit relationship between corporate
taxpayers (not just the largest companies) and the IRS will
become more adversarial," accounting firm KPMG Peat Marwick
warned in a recent advisory to clients.
   Concentrating on the biggest corporate taxpayers isn't
new. Since 1966, the IRS has run a Coordinated Examination
Program to audit large corporate taxpayers in a timely and
efficient manner. A team of IRS auditors can spend as much as
two years or more auditing a company. The program now
involves 1,565 companies.
   But the effort hasn't been as productive as the IRS's top
management thinks it should be. Audits and disputes take too
long to resolve. Auditors assert huge claims in many cases
but actually recover a relatively low percentage of the
amounts claimed. "The IRS is outgunned," says Ann Witte, a
professor of economics at Wellesley College. "It's now trying
to overcome that."
   The IRS says it currently has about 600 tax cases pending,
each seeking at least $10 million, and totaling $35 billion
in claimed deficiencies. Resolving disputes faster would
whittle down that sum, officials assert.
   The agency hasn't done well in converting its audit
assessments into cash. Through appeals and tax court
proceedings the IRS recovers only about 20% to 25% of the
additional amounts it seeks, and critics say it could do
better. KPMG Peat Marwick calculates that increasing the
recovery rate by 10% would result in an additional $3.4
billion in federal revenue, enough to satisfy President
Bush's expectations for the IRS to raise $3 billion by fiscal
1991.
   Complex cases stack up because IRS auditors don't have
enough expertise in the quirks of particular industries or of
new complex issues that may cross industry lines. And there
have been serious shortcomings in internal communication and
coordination of the IRS approach to different companies in
the same industry. IRS auditors tend to focus on the
immediate problems related to the company they're working on,
not knowing how similar issues are handled elsewhere.
   Under the new program recently approved by top IRS
officials, the agency plans to spend about $4.6 million this
year to add 48 national and regional specialists; officials
think the program will "accelerate collection of revenue by
$550 million" in fiscal 1991. A key move will be the
appointment later this year of a national director to run the
new program.
   The program will "significantly improve our ability to
identify emerging issues in difficult audits that are widely
dispersed and complex, reduce for us and the taxpayer the
time spent on unproductive issues and reduce the time of the
audit," says Marty Washburn, IRS deputy assistant
commissioner for examinations.
   "Our intent in all of this is to improve the program and
build a relationship with the taxpayers," says Bill C. Roth,
director of examinations at the IRS. "If we implemented it in
our own way it would have been adversarial."
   The IRS is calling for, among other things, a more
centralized program with better trained auditors; it proposes
creation of a national policy board which would "look at the
big picture of tax administration," a national director who
would be in charge of program development, more industry and
issue specialization among its agents and improved training
through outside help.
   The plan would expand specialization by creating more
technical positions. For example, audits would take advantage
of technical experts who are familiar with a special issue,
such as foreign-tax credit, or who are knowledgeable about a
particular industry, such as textiles.
   Such experts would be trained by increased use of outside
consultants and tax specialists. This would address a recent
criticism by the General Accounting Office that senior
staffers were spending too much time training rather than on
auditing cases.
   Some critics argue that specialization might not resolve
the longstanding problem of a high employee turnover rate at
the IRS. Many auditors are junior-level employees paid far
less than their corporate counterparts and who tend to skip
to the private sector after several years. The IRS has
countered that the salary problem can't be solved by the
agency alone since it plagues the whole federal government.
   The plan also calls for better communication between
regional offices. The IRS concedes that lack of communication
has hurt development of issues. Under the plan, a national
office would analyze issues so that a consistent policy could
be developed. Also, there would be movement of cases and
personnel between regions according to workload and issue or
industry expertise. Technical information would be posted on
an electronic bulletin board that auditors in the field could
look to for help.
   To critics of the plan, the centralization of the audits
smacks of delays, not faster audits. They argue that problems
that could be resolved at the regional level may have to go
through another bureaucratic step, causing delays.
   Corporate taxpayers are also concerned with the proposal
to have IRS lawyers readily available to give legal advice to
auditors from the start of the examination.
   Critics argue lawyers would unnecessarily burden the
auditing process. "We don't think the legal side of the IRS
is very good at making quick decisions and move the process
through," said Neil P. Wissing, director of taxes for
Weyerhaeuser Co.
   But Mr. Roth of the IRS contends that the purpose of a
legal counsel would be to give technical advice, not to
prepare for litigation. Nevertheless, "the fact that we have
counsel there would help in situations where a taxpayer is
trying to stonewall us," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   First Connecticut
   SBIC Seeks Shield
   Under Chapter 11
   ----
   By Mark Robichaux
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   FCO
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   First Connecticut Small Business Investment Co., a
federally licensed SBIC based in Bridgeport, said it filed
for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code.
   The filing is the latest in a string of SBICs, operating
under one of the Small Business Administration's largest loan
programs, that have encountered financial troubles. Already,
170 of these private venture-capital concerns have gone into
liquidation proceedings, leaving the SBA's lending exposure
at about $500 million. The agency said 388 SBICs are still in
operation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The SBA has recovered roughly $66 million, and expects to
recoup an additional $220 million by selling the dissolved
assets.
   SBICs are licensed by the SBA to provide
government-guaranteed loans and equity financing for small
businesses. Since 1958, the concerns have invested about $9
billion in private and government funds in new companies.
   But in the past two years, the number of SBIC failures has
doubled, said Sen. Dale Bumpers (D., Ark.), chairman of the
Small Business Committee. He said 30 to 40 failures are
predicted for this year.
   River Capital Corp., an SBIC in Springfield, Va., recently
defaulted on $28.5 million in SBA loans.
   In its petition filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the
District of Connecticut in Bridgeport, First Connecticut
listed assets of approximately $70 million and liabilities of
approximately $60 million. Chapter 11 shields a company from
creditors' lawsuits while it forms a plan to pay its debts.
   Echoing other SBICs in their moves for bankruptcy-law
protection, First Connecticut said its filing was made
necessary by liquidity problems caused by a sharp downturn in
the business climate in its market area. These problems were
accelerated, the company said, when the SBA asked for payment
by Aug. 24 of three subordinated debenture issues totaling
$5.5 million that were due June 30, and when requests were
made for payment by many loan participants who have the right
to put their loan participations to First Connecticut on
short notice. The company has about $30 million of such
participations.
   SBA Administrator Susan Engeleiter declared a 90-day
moratorium on SBIC licensing that took effect June 29. During
the moratorium, the agency is making administrative and
regulatory changes in the program, concentrating on
tightening control of the active SBICs and speeding the
shutdown of those being liquidated.
   Meanwhile, nearly 40 SBIC license applications are pending
at the SBA, representing private capital of more than $80
million.
   "I don't think there will ever be a time when there will
not be an SBIC failure," an SBA spokesman said. "It's a risky
business. They're not buying stock in IBM."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pechiney's Howmet Buys Site
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.PEH EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   GREENWICH, Conn. -- Howmet Corp., a maker of superalloy
castings and metals, and a unit of French state-owned
Pechiney Group, said it purchased a site in North Haven,
Conn., for a new plant to refurbish parts for jet aircraft
engines. The price wasn't disclosed.
   Howmet, which already operates two U.S. plants that
refurbish aircraft parts, said the acquisition includes a
building where the company plans to establish a facility for
coating and repairing parts for advanced jet planes, such as
blades and vanes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Researchers Challenge a Skin Test Used
   To Detect and Treat Food Allergies
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Medical researchers challenged the validity of a commonly
used skin test administered by doctors to diagnose and treat
food allergies.
   The test, known as provocation-neutralization, is most
often used by doctors known as clinical ecologists. They
believe a wide variety of ailments result from exposure to
food and chemicals in the environment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The challenge to the test, published in a study in today's
New England Journal of Medicine, is a setback to clinical
ecologists and underscores their differences with traditional
allergy doctors, who use a similar test in treating patients,
but who generally eschew provocation-neutralization.
   The study, combined with previous research, "raises a very
severe question," says Don L. Jewett, professor of orthopedic
surgery at the University of California, San Francisco, and
principal author of the report. "Is this treatment doing
anything?"
   Two years ago, federal health regulators withdrew coverage
of the test for Medicare patients, saying available evidence
didn't indicate the test and associated treatment were
effective.
   Proponents of the test say the coverage decision is under
challenge. Aubrey Worrell, president of the American Academy
of Environmental Medicine, said several other studies vouch
for its value. He said he continues to use the test on
selected patients and finds it effective.
   Under the technique, doctors inject patients with an
allergen extract. If symptoms are provoked, they administer
additional doses until they find a level that relieves or
neutralizes symptoms. The neutralized dose level serves as a
basis for treatment.
   But Dr. Jewett and his colleagues determined that patients
undergoing the tests couldn't tell the difference between
active allergens and a dummy or placebo solution used as a
control. Indeed patients were just as likely to report a
reaction to an injection whether it was active or inert.
   The researchers based their conclusions on 20 tests of 18
different patients in seven doctors' offices. The doctors
were proponents of the sensitivity tests and well-versed in
their use, the researchers reported. Only patients who
previously reacted to such tests were studied.
   Each person was injected 12 times during the test, three
times with an active allergen extract and nine times with an
inert, control solution. The doctors, patients and
technicians administering the tests didn't know which
syringes contained active solutions.
   Ten minutes after each injection, patients were asked to
decide whether the substance was active or inert. Substances
tested included chocolate, milk, yeast, and chicken.
   The researchers said the patients accurately picked 16 of
60, or 27%, of active injections and judged 44 of 180, or 24%
of the inert injections to be positive. "The symptoms that
were provoked were generally unrelated to the contents of the
syringes," the researchers added. In addition, neutralizing
doses, when applied, were equally effective in treating
symptoms "provoked" by both active and inert solutions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Alters Deadline
   For Some Auction Tenders
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury Department said it set a new
noon Eastern time deadline for the submission of
noncompetitive tenders for its securities auctions, effective
Nov. 5 at the auction of short-term bills.
   The deadline for submissions of competitive tenders will
remain at 1 p.m. Eastern time, the Treasury said in its news
release.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Currently, all tenders are due at 1 p.m. on auction day.
   The noncompetitive deadline is being changed to permit
auction results to be released to the financial markets more
quickly, the Treasury said.
   The new deadline for noncompetitive tenders, in addition
to increasing automation of the Treasury's process for
determining auction results, should permit the department to
meet its goal of regularly releasing results by about 2 p.m.
Eastern time, the Treasury said.
   "Earlier release of auction results is expected to
facilitate secondary market trading of Treasury securities
and reduce the Treasury's financing costs," the department
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Small Investors Warned
   Of Mideast-Linked Pitches
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Small investors should be wary of promoters
who are exploiting the Middle East crisis to push bogus oil,
gas and precious metals investments, three states warned.
   Attorneys general for Missouri, New Hampshire and New York
and members of the North American Securities Administrators
Association Inc. issued "Investor Bulletins" calling
attention to what they called a "new rash of `boilerroom'
salespeople" seeking to exploit the Middle East situation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Today the con artist's best friend is a headline or
television news report from the Mideast that refers to a
disruption of oil supplies to the United States," the
officials said.
   Typically, customers are encouraged to invest $5,000,
$10,000 or more in units of partnerships to profit from
rising oil prices, or in precious metals, which tend to rise
in price in times of unstable economic news.
   In Missouri, Secretary of State Roy Blunt said a Florida
man had been arrested on charges of selling shares in a
nonexistent Pennsylvania pipeline, using Iraq's invasion of
Kuwait to encourage purchasers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Continental Air to Match
   Competitors and Cut Fares
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CTA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON (AP) -- Continental Airlines said it will cut
fares for flights after Labor Day, matching reductions
already announced by several other major carriers.
   The carrier said it will lower its discount fares for fall
vacation travel in the continental U.S. by an average of 30%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Continental said the lowered fares will be exempt from a
pending 5.3% increase that the carrier and several others
plan to implement in about a week to defray the rising costs
of jet fuel.
   The airline's reduced fares apply to round-trip tickets
purchased by Aug. 29 for travel between Sept. 5 and Dec. 16,
excluding the five days around Thanksgiving.
   On Tuesday, United, Northwest and American offered lower
fares in response to the post-Labor Day fare cuts announced
Monday by Trans World Airlines and Eastern Airlines.
   The 5.3% fare increases were to have gone into effect
yesterday, but Continental, United Airlines and Northwest
Airlines said they were delaying the increases until
Wednesday. American postponed the increases until next
Thursday.
   The carriers said they were taking the action for
competitive reasons and that the delay meant they would
absorb higher fuel costs for the time being.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Coppola and Company
   Are Dismissed by Judge
   From Chapter 11 Status
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   SANTA ROSA, Calif. -- A federal bankruptcy court here
dismissd Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings filed six months
ago by movie director Francis Ford Coppola and his company
Zoetrope Productions.
   Mr. Coppola, best known for directing the film epic "The
Godfather," had filed for personal and corporate protection
under Chapter 11 in January, seeking protection from creditor
lawsuits while he worked out a plan to pay his debts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Zoetrope Productions, a unit of San Francisco-based
Zoetrope Corp., then listed debts of $28.9 million and assets
of $22.2 million.
   John Peters, president of Zoetrope Corp., said in a
telephone interview yesterday that Mr. Coppola had emerged
from both his personal and corporate Chapter 11 proceedings,
and confirmed that the court had also approved a proposed
settlement of related litigation. However, he declined to
elaborate.
   Mr. Coppola had been embroiled in a dispute over a loan
from the Singer family of Canada, which financed his movie,
"One From the Heart."
   "I can't characterize it, or cast more light on its
significance at this time," Mr. Peters said of the
settlement. Mr. Coppola's attorneys couldn't be reached.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Allegheny International
   Faces a Chapter 11 Delay
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   AG
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Allegheny International Inc.'s expected
emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection after 2 1/2
years was delayed at the 11th hour for technical reasons.
   The postponement of the closing -- and a halt in the
company's stock trading on the New York Stock Exchange --
came after the Nuclear Regulatory Commission raised some
questions about the company's Chemetron unit, a shell company
that apparently still retains a nuclear license. The NRC must
approve any transfer of ownership or control when a nuclear
license is involved.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The delay doesn't appear to pose serious problems,
however. The bankruptcy court has already given final
approval to Allegheny's reorganization under a new name,
Sunbeam/Oster Corp. And the prospective owners, Japonica
Partners, indicated yesterday that they plan to work toward a
resolution giving it control of the consumer products
company.
   Directors expect to install new top management, led by
Chairman Paul B. Kazarian, once ownership is officially
transferred to Japonica.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Carl Icahn Tackles New Game: Troubled Junk Bonds...
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SLCTC WU X.LES ISS X.ACF X.GLT X.TMP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Corporate raider Carl Icahn has elbowed his
way into the nastiest corner of the junk-bond market: the
restructuring battles over financially troubled companies.
   What happens next won't be pretty, Mr. Icahn acknowledges.
But he expects to make a lot of money.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Market estimates are that Mr. Icahn in the past four
months has snapped up nearly $800 million face value of
distressed junk bonds, buying them at a steep discount. Mr.
Icahn won't comment on that figure. But he confirms that his
big bond holdings include Southland Corp., Western Union
Corp., Gillett Holdings Inc., Leaseway Transportation Co. and
Interco Inc. All those companies have defaulted on their
debt; their bonds trade anywhere from 17 cents to 46 cents on
the dollar.
   Mr. Icahn says he smells opportunity, much as he did in
the 1980s when he stalked companies such as Texaco Inc.,
Trans World Airlines, ACF Industries Inc. and USX Corp. in
the stock market. It doesn't appear to bother him that in his
new arena he might face protracted fights with company owners
about how to settle bondholders' claims.
   "It's a travesty what some of the equity owners are
doing," Mr. Icahn fumes. "A lot of these guys believe it's
their right to stay in control even if their faulty decisions
have completely messed up a company. It's like the divine
right of kings."
   When debts must be restructured, Mr. Icahn says, he wants
to collect the best possible mix of cash, equity and new
bonds in exchange for his current holdings of defaulted
bonds. And if new part-owners can be brought in to help
"resuscitate" a company, Mr. Icahn says, he's in favor of
that, too.
   "Many of these equity owners aren't willing to give up
part of their equity and their perks to get an infusion of
new cash," Mr. Icahn complains. But he vows: "The equity
holders aren't going to roll me over like they do with some
of the other bondholders."
   For other investors, it's thrilling and a bit frightening
to watch Mr. Icahn, a reputed billionaire from his 1980s
raids, turn his teeth on other takeover specialists who took
on too much debt. "There's tremendous irony" in seeing one
raider attacking others, observes John Gordon, a junk-bond
investor at Deltec Securities Corp. "I'd love to see the
action as Carl moves forward."
   In the case of Western Union, Mr. Icahn already has taken
his first bite. During an eight-hour conference call among
top bondholders last month, Mr. Icahn repeatedly pressed
Western Union Chairman Bennett LeBow about why the ailing
telex and money-transfer company didn't put more cash into
its proposed exchange offer for holders of its defaulted 19
1/4% bonds. Mr. Icahn owns $70 million face value of these
debt securities, traders estimate.
   Mr. LeBow insisted that the company simply didn't have any
more cash, according to several people who listened in on the
conversation. But Mr. Icahn then snapped: "What about your
management contract? You're getting paid $2.5 million a year.
Why do you have to get that?"
   Bondholders say Mr. Icahn ran through a list of other
demands, including curbs on Western Union's capital spending,
so that more money would be available to repay bondholders.
Many of those points still haven't been settled; Mr. Icahn
has told other bondholders that he may block Western Union's
proposed exchange offer for its 19 1/4% notes unless terms
are modified.
   Mr. Icahn hasn't been so combative in the restructuring of
Southland, which operates 7-Eleven stores. But he weighed in
during last month's creditor talks nonetheless. "He was
pushing for more cash, more equity, more everything," says
Deltec's Mr. Gordon, who is head of the Southland
bondholders' committee. "It was pretty indiscriminate."
   Gillett Holdings could prove to be Mr. Icahn's next
battleground. The broadcasting, ski resorts and meat-packing
company missed a bond interest payment Aug. 1; it is offering
bondholders cash and new securities in exchange for some
defaulted bonds. Traders estimate that Mr. Icahn owns $50
million face value of the company's most depressed bonds,
which trade at 17 cents to 27 cents on the dollar.
   A friend of company owner George Gillett says that Mr.
Icahn's aides are loudly balking at the exchange offer. "Carl
and his guys have been giving George fits," this friend says.
Mr. Gillett and Mr. Icahn both decline to comment.
   Only in Interco has Mr. Icahn been a peaceful presence.
Interco's chief executive officer, Richard Loynd, says he met
with Mr. Icahn in June and found the raider "very pleasant,
with lots of very creative ideas for the company." Interco
already has agreed to turn over more than 70% ownership of
the company to bondholders.
   Trying to gauge Mr. Icahn's junk-bond investment record so
far is difficult. Traders estimate, though, that Mr. Icahn
has paper profits of about $30 million on his Southland
bonds, and about $10 million on his Western Union notes. They
believe he also made about $30 million in RJR Nabisco Inc.
bonds, which Mr. Icahn says he recently sold. Mr. Icahn's
Interco position, however, is believed to be a loser so far.
   Mr. Icahn says he is buying junk bonds through "several
different companies" that he controls, including ACF
Industries and Unicorn Partners. No purchases, however, are
being made by his largest affiliated company, Trans World
Airlines, he says. In the past, the TWA pilots' union has
objected to some of Mr. Icahn's investment moves.
   Some day, Mr. Icahn says, he wants to take a friendlier
role and pump fresh cash into a financially troubled company.
That could allow him to take a majority ownership stake, much
as Japan's Ito-Yokado Co. is proposing to do with Southland.
   Such a move is an intriguing possibility, says Mariel
Clemensen, director of highyield research at Citicorp. "This
market badly needs recapitalizing," Ms. Clemensen says.
"Anyone is welcome."
   So far, however, Mr. Icahn's aggressive bondholder tactics
aren't making him any more popular in corporate boardrooms.
"It's sort of a shame," Mr. Icahn says. "Some of these guys I
do like." His relations with Mr. LeBow in particular are
described by mutual friends as quite frosty now.
   All the same, Mr. Icahn, who has said he will be happy
only when he is worth $2 billion, isn't about to forgo a
chance to make more profits. "Carl has probably done more
negotiations than any living person," says Wilbur Ross, a
Rothschild Inc. investment banker who specializes in
bondholder issues. "He's got himself in a good position now."
   More fireworks may lie ahead. This week, a rumor swept the
junk-bond market that Mr. Icahn had begun buying bonds issued
by developer Donald Trump's casinos. Mr. Icahn wouldn't
confirm that. The bonds are trading as low as 42 cents on the
dollar.
   ---
              Carl Icahn Likes Ailing Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Here are some of Mr. Icahn's largest junk-bond holdings,
as estimated by traders and other bondholders.
                                                                                                       

                                  FACE VALUE
                                  OF HOLDING   CURRENT PRICE
                                   (In          (Cents on
 ISSUER     BOND                   millions)    the dollar)
                                                                                                       

 Southland  13 1/2% notes of 1995    $180           44
                                                                                                       

 Western
 Union      19 1/4% reset notes        70           46
                                                                                                       

 Gilett     12 5/8% bonds of 1998      50           27
 Holdings   13 7/8% bonds of 1999                   17
                                                                                                       

 Leaseway   13 1/4% bonds of 2002      40           19
                                                                                                       

 Interco    13 3/4% bonds of 2003      30           25
                                                                                                       

   (See related story: "Heard on the Street: ...But Were His
Past Raids Really Worth It?" -- WSJ August 16, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- AMC Entertainment Inc.:
   Purchase by TPI Enterprises
   Of 34 Theaters Is Amended
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   AEN TPIE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMC Entertainment Inc., Kansas City, Mo., said an
agreement under which TPI Enterprises Inc. was to purchase 34
AMC theaters was amended, largely cancelling the planned
purchases.
   TPI, under a 1988 pact, has already purchased the
interests in 56 theaters from AMC for about $128 million.
That agreement called for TPI to acquire another 34 AMC movie
houses, but those provisions have been terminated. Closure of
the now-cancelled sale was originally set for February, but
it had been pushed back a number of times.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AMC, which holds an about 28% stake in TPI Enterprises,
said TPI told the company it had decided to focus on its
existing theater markets.
   Had the deal been consummated as originally envisioned,
said an AMC official, the full 90-theater sale would have
been "on the order of $200 million." Under the new terms, TPI
retains the option to purchase five of the theaters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   IBM Sets Patent
   Pact With Sun
   Microsystems
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM SUNW
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sun Microsystems Inc. became the latest company to feel
the heat from International Business Machines Corp.'s
aggressive patent-enforcement policy.
   The maker of high-end workstations signed a
cross-licensing agreement covering IBM's entire patent
portfolio plus all patents filed before July 1, 1995.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While Sun and IBM never went to court over their patents,
the move marks the end of negotiations that began two years
ago, when IBM wrote Sun a letter suggesting that it "needed a
license to some of their patents," said Michael Morris, vice
president and general counsel of Sun, based in Mountain View,
Calif.
   IBM's vast portfolio of technology encompasses 10,000 U.S.
utility patents, and it grows at a rate of 600 applications a
year. "With a portfolio of such breadth and depth, you run
the risk of inadvertent infringement," Mr. Morris
acknowledged. Sun's portfolio, he added, numbers just 25,
with 106 applications pending.
   IBM has been insistent about requiring that smaller
companies take licenses to its technology. In 1989, IBM
struck a similar cross-licensing pact with Compaq Computer
Corp., requiring the Houston-based maker of PC clones to pay
an estimated $100 million over five years.
   While its terms with Sun weren't disclosed, some analysts
believe Sun paid considerably less. "It's very different,"
said Thomas T. Rooney, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin &amp;
Jenrette Securities Corp. in New York. "Compaq shipped a lot
of product perceived to be infringing," whereas Sun doesn't
engage in the same head-to-head competition. Sun said it will
pay a net royalty payment of a fixed dollar amount to IBM in
five annual installments.
   "Normally, such agreements amount to 1% to 3% of related
revenues," Mr. Rooney said. "It's not going to be significant
to Sun." Sun said in its statement that it doesn't expect
materially adverse impact on its financial performance. In
national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Sun stock
declined early in the day and closed at $28.25, down 75
cents. IBM stock rose 62.5 cents to close at $105 a share in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   While the companies didn't specify which products or
technologies were at the heart of the deal, some analysts
believe it has to do with IBM's original RISC -- or reduced
instruction set computing -- technology dating from the
1970s. RISC has since been widely adopted throughout the
computer industry.
   Other possible points of contention, according to Mr.
Rooney, are IBM's semiconductor-fabrication technology and
its microchannel-based products, which relate to its PC bus
architecture, which is a sort of data highway into which all
information from chips and other parts flows.
   "It may be that Sun is looking to bring RISC technology to
the desktop in the form of microchannel-compatible products,"
Mr. Rooney speculated. "That would help Sun further penetrate
the low end of the market." Most of Sun's products sell for
$20,000, but it has recently introduced products in the
$5,000-to-$10,000 range.
   An IBM spokesman called the deal "a typical arrangement,"
asserting such cross-licensing pacts "help keep one's assets
in a certain amount of control." The Armonk, N.Y., computer
giant now has an unspecified amount of cash to help defray
its massive research and development budget.
   Some also speculate that IBM, in gaining access to Sun's
patents, might find a use for Sun's proprietary file-server
technology.
   But on balance, Mr. Rooney of Donaldson Lufkin says, "It's
a face-saving device to call this cross-licensing. What does
IBM need from Sun?" Probably not much, apart from its
possible interest in Sun's file-server technology, he added.
"It's a mistake to blow this out of proportion."
   The agreement is expected to remove a potential liability
from Sun's books. Since IBM served notice with its 1988
letter, Sun's annual report has routinely disclosed the
matter as a "contingency," while downplaying its potential
impact on Sun's books.
   Mr. Morris, Sun's general counsel, said the licensing
agreement won't change Sun's primary business focus. "Our
philosophy from the start has always been to pursue an open
systems architecture that can communicate with products of
IBM and others." he said.
   With one important difference, he adds. "This agreement
gives us access to patented technology that we can
incorporate into our products." He didn't elaborate on
potential applications.
   Mr. Morris refused to respond to any speculation about
possible applications of IBM technology. "We didn't focus on
any specific technology in our part of the negotiations," he
said.
   "We don't have any current plan to incorporate IBM
technology into our products," he added, whether it be RISC
or microchannel products. "Legally, we can. But whether or
not we do is subject to further evaluation."
   Sun's fiscal 1990 profit rebounded strongly from a
depressed 1989 performance to $11.2 million, or $1.21 a
share. Revenue grew 40% to $2.47 billion. During the year
ended June 30, Sun logged both record bookings and shipments,
and increased its world-wide installed base of workstations
and file servers to 285,000 units.
   ---
   Laurence Hooper contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gambling:
   Atlantic City Casinos Slide Into the Red
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   X.TMP BLY PRI CAW
</CO>
<IN>
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Before Donald Trump's Taj Mahal opened in April, the big
question in Atlantic City was whether the market could absorb
the megafacility while much of the Northeast was in a
recession.
   So far, the answer appears to be a resounding "no."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Figures released by the New Jersey Casino Association show
the oceanside resort had its first losing second quarter
since gambling began there in 1978. Collectively, the 12
casinos had losses of $4.3 million before extraordinary items
last quarter, after earning about $24.7 million during the
same period in 1989. The figures include interest payments.
   Mr. Trump's fortunes were far worse than the rest of the
industry; his three casinos had losses of about $25 million
in the quarter, before extraordinary items are taken into
account. Mr. Trump's poor showing came despite the Taj's
record revenue of $104 million during that period. The Taj
posted a loss of $14.1 million during the quarter.
   "I guess the Taj did well enough to hurt everyone else but
not well enough to help Mr. Trump," said Richard Gillman,
chairman of Bally's Park Place, owned by Bally Manufacturing
Corp. "We had a good first quarter, but the opening of the
Taj was the straw that broke the camel's back."
   Mr. Trump's Taj and Trump Plaza were ranked first and
second in revenue, but figures released by the Casino
Association show that his costs and expenses also exceeded
those of the other casinos. Most of the Taj's expenses are
probably attributable to operational wrinkles that crop up
whenever a new casino opens. On the other hand, that facility
benefited from waves of pre-opening publicity, which isn't
expected to continue into the slow winter months.
   With a recovery in the Northeast not yet in sight, and no
casino close to shutting its doors, thus reducing
competition, operators aren't expecting things to get better
soon.
   "There really is a softening of demand for our product,"
said Ronald Lenczycki, president of Harrah's casino, which is
owned by Promus Cos. "It's impossible to know how long this
will last."
   Some properties did better than others, of course. Mr.
Lenczycki's Harrah's, for example, had the best quarter in
town, earning $15 million on a cash flow of $17.5 million.
Harrah's earnings were off about $5 million from the year
before, however. All these second-quarter results, and the
following, are calculated before extraordinary items.
   Bally's Park Place, which usually shares top billing with
Harrah's, had profit of $3.4 million on cash flow of $16.1
million, while Caesars, owned by Caesars World Inc., also
enjoyed a profitable quarter, earning $4 million on a cash
flow of $9.6 million.
   Mr. Trump's properties sagged under the weight of negative
publicity about his financial woes and ballooning debt
payments. Last year, Mr. Trump's properties eked out a $2.5
million profit in the second quarter, as opposed to this
quarter's $25 million loss.
   Mr. Trump's problems are magnified because he has debt
payments of $215 million in the next 12 months that could be
ruinous.
   But Mr. Trump's bad luck hasn't translated into good luck
for his competitors, and that's largely a result of poor
planning, say casino analysts. Because there is no major
airport nearby, 99% of all customers still arrive by car or
bus. And while a number of casinos have recently expanded
their parking capacity, competition for those customers is
still fierce and expensive.
   Patrons who take a bus from New York City to the Taj
Mahal, for example, pay a $20 round trip but receive $12.50
in quarters, a $5 voucher redeemable at a later date and a $5
voucher toward lunch. Plus, the casino pays the bus company
between $1.50 and $3 commission per customer, say gaming
experts. This summer, the Taj has been visited by over
120,000 bus customers a month; that is certain to cut into
its profit.
   And the Taj isn't alone; all casinos -- with the exception
of Harrah's, which has successfully focused on car owners --
have had to rely on costly bus customers to fill their casino
floors. The industry's challenge is to wean itself from a
client base that boosts revenue, but does little for the
bottom line.
   "The casinos have themselves in the position of just
trying to win their own money back," said Al Glasgow, a
consultant for Mr. Trump who also publishes a gaming
newsletter, Atlantic City Action. "When you just recycle the
same customer base, the value of the customer goes down," he
said.
   Casino operators said that because the Taj is now a known
quantity, it will be easier to compete against it. Before the
Taj opened, for example, many operators had to raise the
salaries of change people, security guards and cashiers
because they feared the 6,500 additional Taj workers would
create a labor shortage. Now that the Taj is laying off
workers, the operators can breathe easier, and stop worrying
about an inflationary spiral.
   "Because of the new labor demand from the Taj, all rates
went up," said Harrah's Mr. Lenczycki. "Now things are
starting to return to normal."
   Ed Tracy, chief executive officer of Mr. Trump's Atlantic
City properties, wasn't available for comment on issues
related to the casinos.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Plains Mystery:
   Some Fear Serial Killer
   Of Indians Is at Large
   In Lawrence, Kansas
   ---
   Rash of Unexplained Deaths,
   All Without Witnesses,
   Stymies Police and Sheriff
   ---
   What About the Skinheads?
   ----
   By Ann Hagedorn
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   LAWRENCE, Kan. -- For five days after the body of a
19-year-old Indian named Christopher Bread was found in a
ditch on the outskirts of town, it rained. Mr. Bread's
parents and other native Americans saw the downpour as a
sign, a washing away of evil.
   On the morning of the memorial service last March, as the
sun rolled across the prairie once more, mourners embraced
the sunshine as a harbinger of hope. Soon, they said among
themselves, the mysteries surrounding this death and the
deaths of several other native Americans here would surely be
solved.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But that hasn't happened. In the past year and a half,
four unexplained deaths of Indian men have occurred in this
eastern Kansas town. No witnesses have come forth to explain
them. There appear to be no suspects. And while police and
the local sheriff say they are doing everything they can to
crack the cases, fears that a serial killer is responsible
haunt the Indians.
   Moreover, local Indian leaders worry that the deaths and
the way they've been investigated are manifestations of
racism. "We feel like an isolated community. We have felt
that the view outside our community is that these are just
some drunken Indians, that it's all an Indian problem," says
Donald Bread, the father of the late Christopher and a law
instructor at Haskell Indian Junior College here.
   The first death came to light 16 months ago when canoeists
in the Kansas River, which flows through Lawrence, found the
body of 19-year-old John Sandoval. The young Navaho had
vanished months earlier.
   Then last October, in a park along the banks of the same
river, hikers spotted a body floating among branches and
twigs. The dead man, 21-year-old Cecil Dawes Jr., had been a
West Point cadet. He was of mixed tribal background:
Cheyenne, Arapaho, Creek and Seminole. He had been missing
for 10 days.
   In December, the body of an elderly Indian was found early
one morning on the city's main drag.
   Finally came the death in March of young Mr. Bread, who
had last been seen at a local hangout where a band sponsored
by so-called skinheads was playing. Until repainted recently,
the front door of the place, known as the Outhouse, was
decorated with a big swastika.
   Officially, the cases are labeled "unattended deaths."
Though the police and county sheriff say the investigations
remain open, they also say they have few fresh leads. And,
they insist, there is no evidence the cases are in any way
related.
   Police Chief W. Ronald Olin sees fears among Indians as an
overreaction. A small, compact man with a crisp manner, he
met last fall with Indian leaders who included the senior Mr.
Bread -- just months before Mr. Bread's own son died
mysteriously. At the meeting, the police chief said there
were no common threads linking the deaths, and suggested that
drinking might have had as much to do with the deaths as
anything else.
   Charlene Kelley-Johnson, who is director of the Lawrence
Indian Center here and was at the meeting, says, "They talk
about the drinking and they say there is no evidence to
connect the cases, but what is crucial is that there is no
evidence so far to dispel the idea of connections. And so the
native American community is filled with confusion and fear."
   About 2,000 native Americans representing scores of tribes
live in this fast-growing city of 56,000 on the edge of the
prairie. Some attend the University of Kansas, but most are
either students or teachers at Haskell, a 106-year-old,
federally supported college that legendary athlete Jim Thorpe
once attended.
   The fear that a killer of Indians may be at large has
caused some Haskell students to warn relatives and friends to
stay away. Last spring, some terrified students even tried to
hock their traditional dance costumes to raise money to go
home early.
   Fears have been fed, too, by certain other incidents in
the past 18 months or so. Three Haskell students have been
struck and injured by hit-and-run drivers late at night on
well-lighted streets. Harry Oliver, a 72-year-old from the
Kickapoo Indian Reservation near Horton, Kan., was killed
after attending a powwow at Haskell. He also appears to have
been a hit-and-run victim, but the case is still open. An
autopsy showed his blood-alcohol level to be .18, well beyond
the legal limit for drivers of. 10.
   And last September, the body of a Lawrence woman of Puerto
Rican heritage was found stuffed in a culvert west of town.
She was an avid walker who often trod deserted country roads.
The Indians, many of whom do a lot of walking because they
don't have cars, think she may have been mistaken for one of
them. That case is also unsolved.
   Douglas County Sheriff Loren Anderson says that 1989 was a
most unusual year. There were 18 death investigations and
seven homicides. Five of the dead were Indians. The year
before saw just six investigations of deaths and one
homicide.
   Students expressed their fears at a march and forum a few
weeks after young Mr. Bread died. Chanting "don't hesitate,
investigate," they marched from the police station to the
Haskell campus, carrying signs saying "Are you next?" and
"Will it ever stop?" At the forum, Mr. Bread's father
confronted Police Chief Olin: "When the body of Cecil Dawes
was found, I told you that if you don't stop this, it will
happen again. But Dawes's death was called `an unattended
death.' . . . Someone is thinking that it is okay to kill in
Lawrence -- that it will be called an `unattended death.'"
   All this apparently put enough pressure on city
commissioners that in early July they announced a citywide
task force to study racism in Lawrence. Meanwhile, rumors are
rampant, especially on the south side of town where most of
Lawrence's native Americans live. Because the fourth victim,
Christopher Bread, was last seen at a local haunt of
"skinheads," most of the stories feature this group.
   The term skinhead usually refers to young neo-Nazis with
shaved heads or close-cropped hair who wear jeans, suspenders
and heavy black work boots, and advocate violence in the name
of white supremacy. The sheriff confirms there are such
people hereabouts. But he says there also are "copycats" who
dress like skinheads but don't exhibit overt racism.
   Some people here argue that the FBI should get involved
because of possible violations of federal civil rights law.
On behalf of Mr. Dawes, the Cheyenne and Arapaho tribes of
Oklahoma have asked the FBI to intervene. Sheriff Anderson
says he wouldn't mind the help.
   In the Dawes and Sandoval cases, details are sketchy. The
coroner's report says Mr. Sandoval was last seen at a party
near the center of town. Friends say that when he left, he
was walking toward home, not in the direction of the river
where his body was found. Mr. Dawes's body, too, was found in
the Kansas River.
   The river, known locally by its Indian name, the Kaw, can
be treacherous, says Sheriff Anderson. He doesn't have a
theory about Mr. Sandoval, whose body was decomposed when
found, but he believes Mr. Dawes got caught in an
undercurrent as he tried to swim the river.
   The sheriff knows that Mr. Dawes, after leaving a bar late
at night, snagged a tire of his car on a railroad tie while
crossing the tracks. The rest is speculation. The sheriff's
theory goes like this: Worried that he'd get in trouble for
drinking and driving, young Mr. Dawes left the car on the
edge of the tracks and ran to the river. A superb athlete, he
may have thought he could swim to the other side and walk
home. His blood alcohol level was .186. Again, the legal
limit for driving is .10.
   Mr. and Mrs. Dawes say their son would have thought twice
before jumping into the Kaw, whether he'd been drinking or
not. They think he was forced in.
   Cecil Dawes Sr., a soft-spoken man who teaches graphic
arts at Haskell, is troubled that the police didn't notify
him when they found his son's car near the river the Saturday
night he disappeared. The police respond that it was the
son's car and thus there was no reason to notify his parents.
It wasn't until the following Friday that the father located
the car with the sheriff's help in one of the tow-yards the
police use.
   Mr. Dawes found the contents of his son's wallet scattered
across the front seat and on the floor. Also clothes,
receipts, check stubs and books.
   Why didn't the police connect the abandoned car, which
must have been listed in their computer, with the
missing-person report that Mr. and Mrs. Dawes later filed
with the police, the father asks now. Why didn't they examine
the car closely and take its contents in as evidence? The
car, he says, seems particularly important in light of the
fact that a woman who was riding with his son that night says
the young man thought he was being followed. After getting
stuck among the ties, he told her to get out and hide. She
has told investigators that from where she was hiding in the
bushes nearby, she thought she heard a car door slam and a
voice. But people close to the investigation say she has
changed her story at least once.
   More is known about the Bread case. On a chilly evening in
March, young Mr. Bread took a taxi to the roadhouse called
the Outhouse, a one-story cinder-block building that looks
too urban to be nestled amid silos in the cornfields. On the
back wall of the hangout, between boarded-up windows, are
slogans and images. Surrounding a skull and bones are the
words "Hard Core Hate Trip." Near the words "Death Squad" are
big letters S that look like the lightning-bolt insignias on
the collars of Nazi uniforms.
   Two heavy-metal bands were playing the night Mr. Bread was
there, the night he died. About 40 people attended. At one
point there is said to have been a scuffle between skinheads
and Indians, but Mr. Bread apparently wasn't involved. Two
skinheads manning the front gate have told police they saw
the young man leave, walking alone down a deserted county
road.
   At what time he left hasn't been exactly established. Band
members told detectives they thought he left between 12:30
and 12:45 a.m. Shortly after 1 a.m., a motorist spotted his
body.
   The victim's mother, Marilyn Bread, is a former
commissioner of the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation
and now teaches business at Haskell. She says her son "didn't
like to walk, especially on cold nights, and it was 19
degrees that night. We know that he had told the cab driver
who took him {to the dance hall} that he would want a ride
back and would call the cab company later. He never called."
   Mr. Bread, who is Kiowa and Cherokee, died from head
injuries of unknown cause. Of the three coroners who examined
the body, two said the fractured skull and other injuries
were consistent with a hit-and-run accident. Coroners'
reports put his blood-alcohol at .127.
   Detective Robert Van Hoesen was the first officer on the
scene that night. He says now, "It was my feeling that {the
death} had occurred somewhere else, that this was a body that
had been moved."
   Police Chief Olin scoffs at the idea of a killer at large.
He displays his sheepskins on the walls of his office: a
doctorate in developmental psychology, a certificate from the
FBI National Academy, another from the
Polizei-Fuehrungsakademie, a leadership school for the German
police. "There is absolutely no indication of a homicide" in
the Bread case, he says. "Jeans, black jacket, long black
hair, walking in the middle of the road in the middle of the
night and on a county road and beyond the legal level of
intoxication. . . . There has never been a hit-and-run case
{before} where we've had 20 investigators working on it and
ordered three autopsies. I am at a loss to explain the
skepticism."
   The chief also rejects the idea of calling in the FBI.
Why, he says, would the FBI be interested in two drownings
and some traffic accidents?
   And he is quick to insist that any criticism of his
department concerning the cases of Messrs. Sandoval, Dawes
and Bread is misdirected. Because the bodies were found
either in the river or on a county road, the matters are the
responsibility of the sheriff, not the police.
   In an office down the hall from the chief's, Sheriff
Anderson furrows his brow. "The 20 or so investigators in the
Bread case were dispatched for a homicide, not a hit and run.
We still don't know what we've got here," he says, tapping
his corncob pipe on the heel of his left cowboy boot. "There
are still some questions yet."
   Both the sheriff and Detective Van Hoesen are puzzled as
to why there were no auto parts on the road, no skid marks
and no shards of glass. Among other things, they wonder why
two T-shirts Mr. Bread was wearing were rolled up from the
waist to his armpits. His back was scraped, as if he had been
dragged. There is nothing in any of the reports to suggest
that he was walking down the middle of the road, says the
sheriff.
   Why also, if it was a hit and run, were there no flecks of
paint in his hair or on his leather jacket? Forensic experts
have told the sheriff the pressure of body against vehicle is
usually so great in a hit and run that it burns paint into
clothing. "The paint would typically come off at the point of
contact," says the sheriff. "And leather is known to pick up
paint very easily."
   With his rancher's gait, easy style and talent for
listening, the tall, 47-year-old sheriff, who took his post
in January 1989, has earned a bit of trust among the Indians.
His demeanor has even inspired a certain calm in the Indian
community. But he is not calm.
   "There are typically a few unanswered questions in cases
like these without witnesses, says the sheriff. "But what
bothers me is that here, mainly in the Bread case, there are
more than a few."
   Leaning back and puffing on his pipe, he says, "We don't
know what happened to Christopher Bread. I'm not gonna be
surprised if we find out it's not a motor vehicle that killed
him. I'm also not skeptical of connections. We may someday
find a link."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Is Seeking Comment
   On Issues by Foreign Banks
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKS (BNK)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission voted
to seek comment on a proposal that would make it easier for
foreign banks and insurance companies to offer securities to
U.S. investors.
   The proposal would exempt foreign banks and insurers, as
well as their finance subsidiaries, from the Investment
Company Act, which regulates mutual funds. U.S. banks and
insurance companies already are exempt from the act.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Three years ago, the SEC exempted from the Investment
Company Act issues of debt securities and nonvoting preferred
stock by foreign banks and insurers. The proposal would
expand the exemption to include offerings or sales of all
equity securities by foreign banks and insurers.
   Foreign banks and insurers would still be required to file
registration statements and periodic reports under other
securities law. Those filings are far less onerous than the
requirements under the Investment Company Act.
   For practical purposes, however, the rule hasn't prevented
foreign banks and insurance companies from offering their
securities in the U.S. The SEC typically grants them
exemptions from the current rule.
   The agency is expected to approve the proposal after a
60-day comment period.
   The agency also voted to issue an interpretive release
stating that U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks are
exempt from the Investment Company Act for the limited
purpose of issuing securities in the U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Auto Insurer Backs Down
   Under New Jersey Order
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   ITT
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   An insurance group within ITT Corp. edged back from a
confrontation with the state of New Jersey by agreeing to
continue writing auto insurance policies in the state if
necessary to keep the rest of its business there.
   ITT Hartford Insurance Group, which has said its total
premium volume in New Jersey last year was $224.6 million,
was responding to an order by the state insurance
commissioner, Samuel Fortunato, who ordered all ITT Hartford
units to surrender their certificates to sell insurance if
one of those units, Twin City Fire Insurance Co., withdrew
from the state's auto insurance market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Twin City, the only ITT Hartford unit selling auto
insurance in New Jersey, has protested that it would suffer
"severe losses" under the state's new auto-insurance law. The
unit had premium volume of $72.6 million last year, though
that figure includes premiums on homeowner lines as well as
auto coverage.
   The state says Twin City insures about 1% of New Jersey
drivers.
   ITT Hartford said it "will continue to operate within the
letter and spirit of the law." But the company signaled its
dispute with the state isn't over, saying it will seek
"administrative and legal remedies" to Mr. Fortunato's order.
The company has already been in litigation with the state
over the law.
   The insurance commissioner was acting under what state
officials call a "long arm" provision in the law meant to
strengthen the state's position in dealing with insurers who
want to pull out of the auto insurance market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Bond Corp. Holdings Ltd.:
   Shareholders of Firm's Unit
   Agree to Purchase Breweries
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   A.BON A.LIO A.BEL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   A settlement for the sale of Alan Bond's Australian
breweries appeared to head off threats by disgruntled U.S.
investors to liquidate the operations. The accord means Mr.
Bond's brewing stake will be diluted by a big new
shareholder-New Zealand brewer Lion Nathan Ltd.
   For months, Bond Corp. Holdings Ltd. has been trying to
sell the breweries to its 58%-owned Bell Resources Ltd. unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Shareholders of Bell Resources approved that company's
proposal to purchase Bond Corp.'s Australian breweries for a
previously agreed price of A$1.85 billion. Bell Resources has
a longstanding loan to cash-strapped Bond Corp. of A$1.2
billion; it has been turned into a deposit on the breweries.
The sale is part of a corporate overhaul intended to reduce
debt that totals about five billion Australian dollars
(US$4.03 billion).
   Just ahead of the shareholders meeting, Bell Resources
announced a proposal to sell half the breweries to Lion
Nathan, partly in return for a commitment from Lion Nathan to
provide A$300 million to help fund the repurchase of US$510
million in debentures issued to American investors by Bond
Brewing Holdings Ltd., the Bond group's main Australian beer
unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Shares Edge Higher in Quiet Trading;
   Composite Index Rises 1.12, to 411.45
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The over-the-counter market edged higher in a
sleepy session, but still outpaced the Dow Jones Industrial
Average.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index added 1.12 points, or 0.27%, to
411.45 and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index gained
0.24%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, meanwhile, added
only 0.02% as some oil stocks weakened.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nasdaq Utility Index, which surged more than 2%
Tuesday on a rebound in cellular telephone stocks, was the
weakest of the Nasdaq sub-indexes yesterday, with a
1.34-point loss to 567.57.
   OTC advancers held a slim lead over decliners, with 980
stocks rising in price, while 863 fell. National Market
System volume slipped to 77,199,000 shares from Tuesday's
already light 80,929,000.
   Meanwhile, large OTC financial stocks, which have long
underperformed the rest of the market, were stronger
yesterday. The Nasdaq Financial 100 Index, which tracks the
top unlisted financial stocks, rose 1.80 to 347.41. The
Nasdaq 100 Index, which follows the largest non-financial OTC
stocks, added only 0.34 to 416.93.
   Robert O'Toole Sr., head of institutional sales trading at
Lehman Brothers, said the OTC market is still catching up
with listed stocks after falling further in the recent
sell-off.
   Mr. O'Toole said retail investors remain sidelined.
"Institutional investors were the only real buyers today," he
asserted.
   Associated Communications added 1 1/4 to 21 1/2 after
reporting that its loss for the second quarter narrowed to
two cents a share from a loss of nine cents a year earlier.
   American Integrity surged 1 1/8 to 6. The company, which
reported a second-quarter loss of 10 cents a share, said it
is engaged in talks that may lead to its acquisition. No
agreement has yet been reached, the company said.
   Allied Clinical Laboratories gave back 1/2 to 11 1/2 after
gaining 1 1/4 Tuesday. The company reported second-quarter
profit of 16 cents a share, compared with pro-forma profit of
a penny a share for the quarter last year.
   Survival Technologies dropped 1/4 to 13 1/4 after falling
1 point Tuesday when the company said that it expects to
report a "small loss" for the year ended in July. Survival
had a loss of 51 cents a share a year ago. Survival's stock
rocketed earlier this week on hopes that Defense Department
contracts for its auto-injectors would boost sales. The
injectors are used to administer antidotes against chemical
weapons.
   Crest Industries recovered 1/8 to 4 1/2 after losing 1 5/8
Tuesday. The company said the stock's drop Tuesday was due to
a misunderstanding of its fiscal first-quarter earnings
report. Crest earned $850,247, or 42 cents a share, in its
latest quarter ended in June, compared with year-ago pro
forma first-quarter net of $832,452. Crest's profit for the
latest quarter had been compared to its earnings of about
$1.3 million in the quarter last year when Crest was a
subchapter S corporation. Only the pro forma year-ago figures
are comparable, however, because of the different tax status
of a subchapter S corporation. Crest went public in July.
   Leading the most active list, Sun Microsystems slid 3/4 to
28 1/4. The company signed a patent and cross-licensing
agreement with International Business Machines under which
each company granted the other a world-wide, non-exclusive
license covering patents having an effective filing date
before July 1, 1995.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Carolco Pictures Inc.:
   Firm's Net Jumps, Boosted
   By Success of `Total Recall'
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CRC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Carolco Pictures Inc.'s second-quarter net income soared
to $8.8 million, or 28 cents a share, from $2.6 million, or
nine cents a share, a year earlier, on the strength of the
box office hit "Total Recall."
   Revenue of the Los Angeles entertainment company more than
doubled to $81 million from $34.2 million, largely because of
"Total Recall," which has grossed $114 million so far.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We expect additional contributions from `Total Recall'
during the remainder of 1990 from both the domestic
theatrical marketplace and the home video release by Live
Home Video in December," said Peter Hoffman, president and
chief executive officer. The film's release in overseas
markets continues through the end of the year, and he said
foreign results are expected "to exceed the domestic
results."
   Carolco's revenue from feature films rose to $67.9 million
from $27.9 million in the quarter, while television
syndication revenue rose to $10 million from $5.1 million.
Carolco recognized $1.1 million as its share of earnings from
Live Entertainment Inc., of which it holds a 54% stake, as
compared with $840,000 a year earlier.
   For the six months, Carolco's net rose to $6 million, or
20 cents a share, from $812,000, or three cents a share,
while revenue increased 91% to $100.2 million from $52.5
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Genentech Settles
   With Abbott Labs
   On Patent Dispute
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   GNE ABT
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Genentech Inc. and Abbott Laboratories Inc. reached an
out-of-court settlement of their two-year-old patent dispute
affecting Genentech's heart drug, tissue plasminogen
activator, or TPA.
   The settlement effectively sweeps away the last major
litigation clouding Genentech's marketing of its flagship
product, sold under the brand name Activase. In April, the
South San Francisco, Calif.-based biotechnology company
settled a similar dispute with Wellcome PLC of London.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement reached with Abbott, the companies
agreed to dismiss all their respective claims. Other terms of
the agreement weren't disclosed, and a Genentech spokeswoman
declined to say whether any money changed hands in the pact.
   In November 1987, the Food and Drug Administration
approved the marketing of Genentech's TPA as a treatment for
heart attacks. The U.S. Patent Office in 1988 and 1989
awarded Genentech patents covering TPA and its manufacture by
means of gene-splicing, or recombinant DNA technology.
Gene-splicing involves insertion of the gene for TPA or other
human proteins into micro-organisms, which then act as tiny
factories to churn out the product.
   However, since 1978 Abbott Labs had been marketing a
natural clot-dissolving substance called urokinase, which is
extracted from urine. It also holds two patents covering a
drug it calls "plasminogen activator," which analysts at the
time speculated might refer to a gene-spliced version of
urokinase.
   The squabble arose when Abbott claimed Genentech's TPA was
infringing its patents. The two companies tried to resolve
the matter throughout the winter of 1987-88, but talks broke
off when Genentech filed suit in March 1988 in federal court
in San Francisco. Genentech asked the court to declare the
Abbott patents invalid, and to rule that Genentech hadn't
infringed upon them.
   Abbott countersued, charging Genentech with infringement
on its patents.
   Ironically, the most formidable competition to Genentech's
TPA has come from neither Wellcome nor Abbott, but from an
older clot-dissolving drug, streptokinase, made by Hoechst
AG. Streptokinase, which sells for about $200 a dose, has
been shown in recent European studies to be about as
effective as TPA, which costs more than 10 times as much.
   Genentech has waged an intensive marketing campaign to
discredit that study, arguing that the study failed to
observe the current standard U.S. medical practice of
administering TPA in conjunction with the blood-thinning
agent heparin.
   TPA, while a strong revenue source for Genentech, never
realized the company's original dream of a billion dollar
product. In the second quarter ended June 30, TPA sales
totaled $48.3 million, about flat with the year-earlier
period, but down from 1990 first quarter sales of $54.9
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Scripps to Pay $100 Million
   To Improve Denver Tabloid
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EWSCA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- E.W. Scripps Co. said it will spend $100 million
on a new production center for the Rocky Mountain News. The
company plans to buy seven eight-unit Goss Colorliner offset
presses and new distribution equipment that will be installed
at the News's satellite production center.
   Color production at the News, a tabloid newspaper, is
constrained by its current production facilities. The new
presses will allow the paper to print up to 48 pages with
full color each day. The company said the result will be a
"more vibrant and attractive newspaper."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The News has a daily circulation of about 365,000 and a
Sunday circulation of about 415,000. The competing Denver
Post, owned by William Dean Singleton and Richard Scudder and
operated by MediaNews Group of Houston, has a daily
circulation of 247,000 and a Sunday circulation of 409,000.
Mr. Singleton said the News' plans will "bring them into the
20th century where everyone else is."
   Separately, the News reported that it is interested in
taking a minority position in a baseball-ownership group if
Denver is awarded one of the planned National League
expansion teams. In an election Tuesday, Denver voters
approved the levy of a one-tenth of 1% sales tax to pay for a
new baseball stadium. The levy won't be imposed unless the
city gets a team.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Telesphere Communications Inc.:
   Firm to Report Net Income
   Soared for Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TSP
</CO>
<LP>
   Telesphere Communications Inc. expects to report tommorrow
that net income for the second quarter soared to about
$700,000, or about three cents a primary share, on a 40%
revenue increase to about $62 million, Eugene Ruiz,
Telesphere executive vice president, said in a interview.
   In the year-earlier second quarter, the long-distance
telephone concern earned $90,000 on revenue of $44.2 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Ruiz said the company expects earnings for the full
year to exceed the 1989 profit of $789,000, or five cents a
share, which included a $624,000 gain from a tax-loss
carry-forward.
   Last year was the first profitable year for Telesphere
since 1982.
   Telesphere, Oakbrook Terrace, Ill., is the largest
supplier of interactive 900 services, which for the most part
have been used for so-called gab lines or to provide jokes
and updates on soap operas. About half of the company's
revenue is generated by 900 service, the rest comes from
supplying operator assisted long distance service to hotels
and small business.
   Harry Thompson, Telesphere chairman, said the company is
trying to interest consumer products companies and retailers
to experiment with using 900 lines as marketing tool.
   Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. and Montgomery Ward &amp; Co. are among
the companies studying whether to use the service, a
spokesman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Washington Energy
   Unit Settles Dispute
   Over Preferred Stock
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WECO F WX
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Washington Energy Co. said its Washington
Natural Gas Co. unit reached an out-of-court settlement with
former holders of its Series D and E preferred stock.
   The preferred holders were identified as Ford Motor Credit
Co., MDFC Equipment Leasing Co., Westinghouse Credit Corp.
and Nationwide Life Insurance Co. and its affiliates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The issue arose from the company's decision in January
1987 to repurchase the preferred shares prior to their
maturity, based on the utility's evaluation of the Tax Reform
Act of 1986. However, a spokeswoman said the preferred owners
objected to terms of the repurchase.
   The settlement, pending a definitive agreement, would
result in a charge against earnings of about 17 cents a
share, or $2.6 million after taxes, for the fiscal year
ending Sept. 30. The company has about 16 million shares
outstanding.
   Washington Energy had profit of $3.3 million, or 17 cents
a share, in the most recent quarter ended June 30.
   The utility company's stock closed at $20.125, down 25
cents, in national over-the-counter trading yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fewer First Executive Policies Redeemed
   In 2nd Quarter but Woes Seen Remaining
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FEXC
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- First Executive Corp. said holders redeemed
about $1.2 billion of its insurance policies in the second
quarter, a slight decline from the previous period but an
indication that the insurance holding company remains under
financial pressure.
   The company also disclosed that it may cut or eliminate
dividends on its preferred stock and has approached senior
lenders about a financial restructuring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, in an interview, William L. Sanders, the
company's recently named chief financial officer and vice
president, said First Executive's board yesterday declared
dividends on all classes of preferred stock. Mr. Sanders said
"our intent is to evaluate the payment of dividends every
quarter, depending on what happens to the company."
   The latest, closely watched tally of redemptions at First
Executive, disclosed in a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, is 17% lower than the $1.45 billion
reported for the first quarter but sharply higher than the
$389 million of the year-earlier second quarter. First
Executive said redemptions currently are at lower rates than
in the previous two quarters.
   Policy redemptions or "surrenders" can be troubling to
insurance companies because they require cash payouts, affect
balance sheet ratios, and can force untimely sales of
investments.
   First Executive's surge in surrenders has in large part
been prompted by an $859 million write-down announced earlier
this year on its junk bond-dominated investment portfolio.
That write-down was effective Dec. 31, 1989.
   The company, which Tuesday reported a 40% drop in
second-quarter net income, said in its SEC filing that
surrenders, withdrawals and policy loan activity have
declined lately from peaks in the first six months of the
year. Moreover, the company has said repeatedly that it has
what it believes are more than sufficient reserves of cash
and short-term securities to meet redemption demands.
   However, worries persist about the apparent onrush of
redemptions and the company itself has noted that its
investment options are constrained by increasingly stringent
regulatory oversight. Cash and short-term investments
declined to $1.83 billion at June 30, from $2.30 billion at
March 31, but were up sharply from the $741 million at June
30, 1989. First Executive has been selling longer-term
securities, amassing the cash cushion to meet redemption
demand.
   In one analyst's view, the public continues to hold strong
concerns about First Executive. Surrenders in the latest
quarter "went from absolutely horrendous to merely
horrendous," said the analyst, William Bitterli of
Northington Partners Inc., an investment concern based in
Avon, Conn.
   First Executive stock closed at $2.375 a share, unchanged
in national over-the-counter trading. The stock has declined
from a 52-week peak of $13.625 a share.
   Concerning its preferred dividends, First Executive said
its ability to draw dividends and other cash from its
insurance units may well be constrained and that the holding
company can't be certain that it will be able to raise funds
from other sources.
   First Executive said it may need relief from its financial
obligations. The company said it believes "it will likely be
necessary to reduce or eliminate its preferred stock dividend
obligations and to reduce or defer payments {on its bank debt
and senior notes} in the future, given the circumstances."
   First Executive said it is in preliminary talks with
senior lenders concerning possible changes in the company's
structure, capitalization, or overall organization. It didn't
elaborate.
   Last year, First Executive paid $44 million in preferred
stock dividends. It has about $156 million face value of
preferred stock outstanding in four issues. The parent
company has $100 million in bank debt and $175 million face
amount of senior notes outstanding. First Executive doesn't
pay a dividend on its common stock.
   Mr. Sanders, the new chief financial officer, said the
company hadn't presented firm proposals to its banks about a
financial restructuring but that it had offered various
suggestions, including possible new borrowings or easing of
terms on the existing debt. He said talks currently are
adjourned for a Japanese bank vacation period.
   The company declared a dividend of 53.125 cents per
depositary preferred share of its Series E adjustable-rate
preferred stock, payable Oct. 1, to stock of record Sept. 14.
On its Series F cumulative preferred stock, the company
declared a dividend of 71.875 cents per depositary share,
payable Oct. 15 to stock of record Oct. 1. On its Series G
cumulative convertible preferred stock, a dividend of 39.0625
cents per share was declared, payable Sept. 17 to stock of
record Aug. 31. And on the Series H cumulative convertible
preference stock, the company said it will pay a dividend of
0.2919708 additional share of depositary Series H stock per
share on Sept. 30 to stock of record Sept. 15.
   On another matter, First Executive said it had passed a
corporate bylaw reducing the number of directors to five from
six, following the July 30 resignation of E. Benjamin Nelson,
an Omaha, Neb., lawyer. Mr. Nelson, a gubernatorial candidate
in Nebraska, has been attacked by political opponents about
his tie to First Executive.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stock Market Increases 0.50 Point
   As Buyers Target Consumer Stocks
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The stock market eked out a modest gain in
sluggish trading, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average
rising less than one point for the second session in a row.
   Buying interest remained confined largely to consumer
stocks -- such as the food, beverage and drug sectors --
whose earnings are expected to hold up well in a weakened
economy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones industrials, which bounced around at mostly
higher levels Tuesday before closing with a gain of 0.99,
followed that pattern again in rising 0.50 to 2748.27.
   Stocks rallied broadly at the opening bell as a wave of
optimism about a possible defusing in the Middle East crisis
rippled through the market, reflecting high hopes for today's
scheduled meeting between Jordan's King Hussein and President
Bush.
   King Hussein met with Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein before
traveling to Washington and is reportedly carrying a letter
to Bush from the Iraqi president, leading to speculation that
a diplomatic resolution to the conflict might be achieved.
   Similar speculation sparked a surge in share prices in
Tokyo, with the Nikkei Index of 225 issues climbing 5.4%, and
also pushed U.S. Treasury issues higher and crude-oil prices
lower at the outset of trading. Against that backdrop, the
Dow Jones industrials jumped to an early gain of more than 22
points.
   But the advance in stocks "looked like a lot of traders
running in and buying a lot of blue chips early, and it never
really followed through," said Edward J. Laux, head of block
trading at Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
   Stocks drifted lower through the rest of the morning as
Treasurys and crude-oil futures reversed direction. As was
the case on Tuesday, the market then firmed modestly in the
afternoon and pulled back again near the close.
   Among broader measures, Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index
gained 0.67 to 340.06, the New York Stock Exchange Composite
Index gained 0.44 to 186.54 and the Dow Jones Equity Market
Index rose 0.75 to 315.30.
   Advancing issues outpaced decliners by 887 to 619. Big
Board volume rose to 135,210,000 shares from 130,320,000
Tuesday. But in the latest session, market activity was "sort
of abysmal" in the afternoon following heavy volume in the
first few hours, Mr. Laux said.
   With the Mideast situation still unsettled, "this is not
an environment where one could be very aggressive" in
expecting the market to rebound from its decline earlier this
month, said Suresh L. Bhirud, chief investment strategist at
Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
   Johnson &amp; Johnson advanced 1 1/8 to 68 3/8 following the
release of a preliminary clinical trial on the use of
photopheresis, a process on which the company has patent
protection, in the treatment of an intermediate form of AIDS.
The results, published in a medical journal, showed that four
of five patients that participated in the trial benefited
from the process. Shearson Lehman Brothers reaffirmed a buy
recommendation on the stock in response to the results.
   Other blue-chip consumer issues to draw buyers included
Philip Morris, which went up 1/2 to 47 1/4 in composite
trading of 1.6 million shares; PepsiCo, which climbed 1 3/8
to 78 7/8; Procter &amp; Gamble, which advanced 3/4 to 83 1/2,
and Merck, which added 7/8 to 87 7/8.
   Rhone-Poulenc Rorer rose 2 7/8 to 64 1/8. Smith Barney,
Harris Upham analyst Christina Heuer said she expects the
company's per-share earnings to increase 35% annually from
1990 through 1994, compared with her projected rate for the
drug industry of 15% to 17% a year, according to Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report.
   As oil prices drifted, oil stocks ran into some selling.
Exxon declined 1/4 to 52, Texaco lost 7/8 to 62 3/8, Amoco
slid 1/4 to 56 3/4 and British Petroleum dropped 1/2 to 81
5/8. In the oilfield-services sector, Schlumberger slipped 1
to 65 3/4 and Halliburton lost 7/8 to 56.
   AmBase plummeted 4 3/4 to 2 3/4 on 1.9 million shares
following an agreement to sell its Home Insurance unit for
$544 million to Vik Brothers International, a European-based
group. AmBase, which had promised a special dividend to its
shareholders, said it is now unlikely to make any payout
based on the expected proceeds from the sale.
   Whitman dropped 1 1/2 to 22 1/4 on 1.4 million shares
after deciding against selling its Hussmann Corp. unit. The
company said the net proceeds that it would have received
from the highest bid "weren't sufficient to justify the
sale."
   Limited Inc. lost 3/8 to 19 1/8. Chairman Leslie Wexner is
still working to expand the company as fast as possible even
though many believe the best days for U.S. retailing are
over, The Wall Street Journal reported yeaterday in a page
one story.
   Deere fell 1 3/4 to 64 1/4. Smith Barney lowered its
estimates of the company's fiscal 1990 and 1991 earnings,
citing the impact of a slowing economy on Deere's industrial
equipment operations. Additionally, the Journal reported that
the farm economy is taking a turn for the worse -- a
potential problem for the company's agricultural-equipment
business.
   Alcan Aluminium rose 3/8 to 22 5/8 on trading of one
million shares, while Reynolds Metals rose 1 3/8 to 64 5/8.
Reynolds said it increased its aluminum price earlier in the
week by two cents a share, to 82 cents, following the lead of
Alcan. Separately, Oppenheimer repeated its buy
recommendation on Reynolds.
   Itel, which agreed to repurchase 25% of Henley Group's
18.7 million shares at $18 each within 30 days and another
25% at $19.50 each by year end, added 1 1/4 to 18 1/2. The
company also will repurchase the rest of Henley's shares by
next June at $21 or $22 apiece, depending on the purchase's
timing, or underwrite their sale at $22 each. Henley slipped
1/2 to 25 1/4 in over-the-counter trading.
   Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel went up 3/8 to 7 3/8. The
company reached a tentative accord with the United
Steelworkers of America on a new labor contract, heading off
a threatened strike and clearing the last major hurdle in
gaining approval for a reorganization plan.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 0.70
to 340.64. Volume totaled 13,640,000 issues.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Warner-Lambert Tests Gum
   With No Sugar, No Stick
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WLA WWY
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   MORRIS PLAINS, N.J. -- In a bid to capture a bigger share
of the post-bubble gum set, Warner-Lambert Co. said it is
testing a new sugarless gum that won't stick to dentures.
   The health care and consumer products company said the new
brand, called Cristal, will be available in southern Texas
and Louisiana by mid-September. Cristal was launched in
Canada last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With such brands as Trident sugarless gum, Bubblicious
bubble gum and Chiclets sugar-coated gum, Warner-Lambert
already controls about 30% of the $1.8 billion U.S. market
for chewing gum. But that market is slow-growing and
extremely competitive.
   With Cristal, the company is taking aim at consumers 35
years old and over, who have crowns, caps or bridges. The
company estimates that some 30 million Americans wear
dentures, and that at least 80 million have had serious
dental work.
   "Historically, gum chewing declines with age," said Maria
Gagnier, category director for gum at Warner-Lambert. "But as
Baby Boomers age, gum chewing has become more acceptable --
just like Rock &amp; Roll music."
   Warner-Lambert is also hoping Cristal will stick it to top
gum rival Wrigley Co., which lords over the U.S. market with
an estimated 50% share. Wrigley virtually created the U.S.
market for non-stick gums with its Freedent brand, launched
in 1975. The company is now testing a sugarless version of
Freedent, according to a Wrigley spokesman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bechtel-Led Group Wins
   High-Speed Rail Franchise
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   J.CIT
</CO>
<IN>
RAILROADS (RAI)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- A consortium led by Bechtel Group Inc.
was awarded a franchise for the development of a $5 billion
high-speed rail system linking Southern California and
Nevada.
   The planned 265-mile system would connect Anaheim, Calif.,
and Las Vegas, Nev., by an elevated magnetized railway
carrying trains that can reach speeds as high as 300 miles an
hour, Bechtel said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Super Speed Maglev Transport system is to be a team
project, coordinated by Bechtel and involving technology from
Transrapid International of Germany, financing by C. Itoh Co.
of Japan, and operations and maintenance services of Amtrak.
   While the system isn't expected to be completed before
1997, Bechtel said the project will eventually create 13,000
to 25,000 permanent jobs in California and 23,000 to 28,000
permanent jobs in Nevada, along with 10,000 temporary
construction jobs.
   Bechtel said it expects the system to attract some five
million round-trip riders a year by the year 2000, drawn by
fares projected at 30% less than commercial airline ticket
prices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Imperial Oil to Sell
   Refining Assets
   On Canada's Coast
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   IMOA U.UMA IMO.A XON
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Imperial Oil Ltd. agreed to sell the refining
and marketing assets it acquired in Canada's Atlantic Coast
provinces and other downstream assets in three separate
transactions that analysts valued at about 300 million
Canadian dollars (US$262.3 million).
   Most of the assets to be sold were acquired as part of
Imperial's C$5 billion acquisition of Texaco Canada Inc.,
completed earlier this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Montreal-based Ultramar Canada Inc. agreed to buy the bulk
of the assets in the Atlantic Coast provinces, including 199
service stations, three marine terminals and a refinery. The
deal must still be approved by Canadian antitrust regulators.
   Imperial Oil, 70%-owned by Exxon Corp., pledged to shed
all of Texaco Canada's downstream oil and gas assets in
Canada's Atlantic provinces as part of its commitments to the
Canadian government's antitrust agency, the Bureau of
Competition Policy. Those commitments were required before
regulators would approve the Texaco Canada acquisition.
   Imperial wouldn't disclose the price Ultramar agreed to
pay for the assets, but analysts valued the transaction at
about C$200 million.
   Imperial also said it agreed to sell 25 retail gas
stations and its other assets in Newfoundland to a private
consortium, Island Petroleum Co. An additional 96
company-owned service stations outside Canada's Atlantic
provinces will be sold to 35 individual bidders, pending
government approval, Imperial said. The company didn't
disclose the value of those two transactions, which analysts
said could fetch C$100 million.
   Profits from these asset sales will help Imperial cut its
debt load, which soared to C$5.8 billion after the Texaco
Canada acquisition. Asset sales, a C$1.3 billion equity issue
and cash from operations helped reduce the company's debt to
C$3.5 billion by June 30, 1990.
   Still on the block are about 300 service stations
throughout the rest of Canada and between C$500 million and
C$750 million of oil and gas producing assets in Western
Canada. These are slated to be sold over the next 18 months.
   Dennis Baxter, a spokesman for Imperial declined to
speculate what the remaining downstream assets might fetch,
but he said the company has received 529 bids for the
remaining service stations.
   Mr. Baxter added that Imperial is also getting offers on
its upstream production properties, but acknowledged that
"that's a very difficult market at the moment."
   Analysts said the acquisition would be a positive move for
the Montreal-based unit of Britain's Ultramar PLC.
   "Until now, they've had a minimal exposure in that
market," said Philippe Hervieu, an analyst with Nesbitt
Thomson Deacon Inc. in Montreal. "This is a breakthrough for
them."
   Ultramar's acquisition more than doubles the company's
retail outlets in three of the four Atlantic provinces to 337
from 138. An Ultramar executive said the company didn't bid
for the Texaco stations in the fourth Atlantic province,
Newfoundland, because Ultramar already has 221 outlets there.
   The company emerged early as a logical buyer for the
assets because antitrust regulators probably wouldn't have
approved offers by other major integrated oil companies.
   In trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday,
Imperial Oil closed at C$64, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   IRAQ'S LEADER OFFERED concessions toward ending his
dispute with Iran.
   Apparently looking for military security and economic help
in his confrontation with the U.S., Saddam Hussein offered to
concede disputed territory to Iran and immediately exchange
prisoners of war. In one sign that Tehran may be receptive,
Iranian religious leader Ali Khamenei blasted the U.S.
military buildup in Saudi Arabia. Bush was to meet today with
Jordan's King Hussein, a potential mediator, as the U.S.
appeared headed toward activation of tens of thousands of
military reservists to ease strains created by the U.S.
deployment in the Persian Gulf.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pentagon planners, taking into account fuel costs, the
need for spare parts and training expenses, say the Persian
Gulf mission could cost $3 billion to $5 billion, and
possibly much more, depending on how long it lasts.
   ---
   South African troops moved into squatter camps and black
townships near Johannesburg in an attempt to curb tribal and
political fighting in which at least 140 people have been
reported killed since Sunday. The violence pits the
traditionalist Inkatha movement against the supporters of
Mandela's African National Congress.
   ---
   The Soviet Union restored the citizenship of an
undetermined number of exiles, and among those reported on
the list were two Nobel Prize winners, poet Joseph Brodsky
and author Alexander Solzhenitsyn, both living in the U.S.
Gorbachev's order came three days after his decree restoring
the rights of victims of Stalin's repressions.
   ---
   Dutch scientists reported that a form of fat created when
vegetable oils are solidified into margarine or shortening
tends to raise blood levels of LDL, or "bad" cholesterol and
decrease HDL, or "good" cholesterol. This kind of change in
the blood cholesterol has been linked to coronary heart
disease.
   ---
   East Germany's premier fired four cabinet ministers who
dealt with the nation's economic slump. They included the
finance, economics, justice and agriculture ministers. Hours
before de Maiziere announced the dismissals, farmers took
part in nationwide strikes and rallies to demand an economic
bailout from a unified Germany.
   ---
   A presidential panel recommended changes to speed
availability of new medicines to people facing death from
cancer and AIDS. The panel urged the FDA to shorten required
tests for drugs and to rely more on outside reviews financed
by drug companies.
   ---
   California fire crews gained some control over wildfires
that have burned 400 square miles in the state since Aug. 3.
At least 31 fires were still reported in Yosemite National
Park, closed since last week, but authorities were predicting
that the outbreaks would be contained by tomorrow.
   ---
   A team of researchers reported that a widely prescribed
drug for Alzheimer's disease doesn't work and may actually
accelerate patients' mental deterioration. The medication,
ergoloid mesylates, is the only drug approved for Alzheimer's
by the FDA.
   ---
   Two Europeans were arrested in Florida for allegedly
trying to illegally export Army TOW missiles and chemical
weapons shells to Libya, Iraq and other nations, a spokesman
for the Customs Office said. The two, from Germany and Spain,
were taken into custody when they tried to buy the weapons
from an undercover agent, the office said.
   ---
   Medical researchers challenged the validity of a skin test
administered by doctors to diagnose and treat food allergies.
The test, known as provocation-neutralization, is most often
used by doctors known as clinical ecologists who believe many
ailments result from exposure to food and chemicals in the
environment.
   ---
   The government reported that the birthrate for teen-age
girls between 15 and 17 years old rose 10% between 1986 and
1988, and that 25% of all births in 1988 were out of wedlock.
The report by the National Center for Health Statistics comes
as the Bush administration is resisting congressional moves
to boost family-planning funds.
   ---
   El Salvador military officers conspired to obstruct
justice in the case of six Jesuit priests murdered nine
months ago, the chairman of a U.S. congressional task force
on El Salvador charged. The Democratic task force is pressing
the Bush administration for sharp cuts in next year's planned
$85 million in U.S. aid to El Salvador.
   ---
   Iran accepted Switzerland's thanks for its help in
securing freedom for two Swiss relief workers held captive in
Lebanon for 10 months and called for a goodwill gesture from
the West to help gain the release of other hostages in
Lebanon. Fourteen Westerners, including six Americans, are
believed held hostage there.
   ---
   Died: Henry Crown, 94, industrialist whose
construction-material company helped build many Chicago
landmarks, Tuesday, in Chicago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Union Valley Corp.:
   Low 2nd-Quarter Demand
   Cited in $2.9 Million Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   UVC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Union Valley Corp., citing reduced demand for new homes in
the New Jersey market, said it incurred a net loss of $2.9
million in the second quarter.
   That compares with year-ago net income of $536,000, or 11
cents a share. Revenue fell 53% to $12.2 million from $26
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a related matter, Howell, N.J.-based Union Valley, said
it may dispose of certain assets outside its main real estate
business under terms negotiated with First Fidelity Bank,
Newark, N.J., to pay back debt. First Fidelity asked for the
repayment of $84.1 million in debt due Aug. 1.
   The commercial and residential builder said losses from
disposed assets may be added to its reserves for possible
losses on certain real estate assets.
   In addition to possible disposition of assets, the company
said it is in talks with the bank to refinance the debt and
to obtain long-term funding for its core home building
business.
   Sales backlog in the first half was $29.2 million, or 233
units, compared to $47.7 million, or 314 units, a year ago,
the company said. The backlog includes non-binding
reservations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Giving a Hand:
   New York Firms Reach Out to Alter
   Teen-Agers' View of the Law
   ----
   By John A. Conway
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   {From time to time in this column, The Wall Street Journal
will report on efforts by people in business to help others
in need.}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   IN HARLEM, THE LAW IS "THE MAN" and the man is rarely
viewed as a friend. New York City's lawyers are trying to
change that by showing teen-agers that the law can help as
well as hurt, and offer a career as well. To prove it, three
Manhattan law firms opened their doors this summer to give
Harlem teen-agers a chance to experience the real world of
private practice.
   Robert Stephan Cohen, managing partner of a 50-lawyer
firm, has long been concerned about the decline of the
quality of life in New York City. (When his children started
school on Manhattan's Upper East Side, for instance, he hired
bodyguards to escort them.) He was also convinced that
private business had to help find a solution. He discovered a
chance to do that with a Harlem school program called Legal
Outreach, which a Harvard Law graduate from Atlanta, James
O'Neal, had started seven years ago.
   Mr. O'Neal, full-time director of Legal Outreach, has been
using Harlem schools to deliver his idea that "the law can be
used to better the quality of your lives" to 500 students a
year.  He tailors his teaching to Harlem's facts of life,
showing how the law relates to housing, to rents, to arrests
and to family relations. Three years ago, he began to offer
summer internships, first in the Manhattan district
attorney's office, later with the New York City Corporation
Council. Mr. Cohen gave him a chance to move his charges into
professional private practice.
   Mr. Cohen and his partners got their first two interns
this July, and four more teen-agers spent six summer weeks
with two other medium-sized Manhattan firms. (All interns are
paid minimum wage during their stay.) Mr. Cohen's candidates
were both 16-year-olds, one from the Bronx High School of
Science, the other from the Manhattan Center for Science and
Mathematics. To supervise their summer, two of Mr. Cohen's
young associates, Frank McClain Sewer and Amy Reiss,
scheduled and shepherded the new arrivals through the firm's
various departments -- litigation, matrimonial, tax, labor,
etc.
   The rationale, Mr. Cohen says, was to use the students,
not as go-fers, but as full-fledged legal assistants. They
accompanied lawyers to court (Messrs. Sewer and Cohen are
litigators), researched cases in the firm's library (a course
Legal Outreach has set up in the public schools), and in
general functioned like trained paralegals. All three firms
followed similar regimens, plus extracurricular dinners,
visits with judges in their chambers, museum trips and
theater parties.
   The Legal Outreach program, financed by Harlem's School
District 5, the U.S. Department of Education and the New York
Community Trust, had already created cadres of teen-agers
with a potential interest in the law. Besides classroom
instruction, every year 64 of them are chosen to take part in
mock trials staged at Columbia Law School, with practicing
attorneys taking part and sitting judges from New York courts
presiding.
   For the venture into private practice, Mr. Cohen and the
other participating lawyers arranged for a foundation grant
of $15,000 that Legal Outreach used to prep the chosen
interns in special Saturday training sessions.
   The first six-weeks' venture of Legal Outreach into
private practice ended with a graduation bash at Penthouse
publisher Robert Guccione's East Side town house. (Mr.
Guccione's wife and co-publisher, Kathy Keeton, has made
Harlem her major avocation.) With Mayor David Dinkins's wife,
Joyce, presiding, the six young interns were turned loose to
return to their schools after experiencing what Outreach
director O'Neal called "another side of life."
   Lawyer Cohen thinks that the three firms in the program
got as much out of it as did the interns. The intern plan, in
his view, has proved itself and next summer he hopes to see
perhaps 35 new interns take part in a two-month program. "New
York law firms," he says, "are lining up to have a share in
it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   New York Blackout
   Delays Transfers
   Of Funds by Banks
   ---
   Fed Is Running Key Services
   On Backup Diesel Power;
   Citicorp Shifts Operations
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit and Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   ED CCI
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The power blackout in parts of lower Manhattan
is slowing the routine intraday transfer of billions of
dollars by some big banks.
   The Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which handles about
$900 billion of financial transfers on an average day for
banks, has been operating its payment settlement system later
in the day than usual this week to accommodate banks affected
by the power failure, according to a New York Fed spokesman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since the power outage hit Monday, the New York Fed itself
has been running essential services on diesel backup power.
   Bankers said that since the power outage, the New York Fed
has told banks that it is prepared to move its own bank
clearing, or settlement, operations to a backup computer
system located in Pearl River, N.Y., should there be further
difficulties. Up to now, the New York Fed spokesman said, the
bank's clearing operations have been functioning normally
under the backup power at the bank's Liberty Street
headquarters.
   Fedwire, the Federal Reserve's funds and securities
transfer service, connects Federal Reserve banks and
branches, U.S. government agencies -- including the Treasury
Department -- and roughly 8,000 depository institutions. It
is the main electronic payments system in the U.S.
   In addition to about $900 billion that clears through
Fedwire daily in New York, the New York Fed handles the
transfer of a few billion in currency, checks and savings
bonds every day.
   "If the diesel goes out, they have a problem," said one
banker. But so far it hasn't.
   As Consolidated Edison Co. of New York worked to restore
power to the downtown area, some banks began having
difficulty with their emergency backup generators. Citicorp,
for example, said one of six emergency generators serving
operations at its 111 Wall Street office, the bank's main
computer center, failed yesterday, forcing the bank to shift
operations to other locations. A spokeswoman said the shift
"is causing minor delays to postings and we're working
overtime to catch up."
   John F. Lee, president of the New York Clearing House
Association, which runs the Clearing House Interbank Payments
System, or CHIPS, said that some of the 140 banks that are
participants in the network have had problems clearing since
Monday afternoon, when the power outage hit. But he added
that the situation was improving. CHIPS is a computerized
network, owned by 11 New York banks, that is used for
transferring international dollar payments. On a normal day,
just under $1 trillion is cleared through the system.
   Mr. Lee said that 25 banks were slow in settling through
CHIPS on Monday, but that by yesterday, the figure had been
reduced to "maybe a handful, five or six." Normally, the
CHIPS system is closed at 4:30 p.m. EDT for settlement at
6:00 p.m. On Monday, the system was kept open until 9:00
p.m.; on Tuesday, there were no problems.
   "The only difficulty is a delay because of the power
problem," said Mr. Lee. The CHIPS network itself -- the main
center is located in Manhattan, backed up by computers in
Weehawken, N.J. -- hasn't experienced any difficulties.
   Any bank that is unable to clear through CHIPS or the
Fed's transfer systems is usually obligated to pay other
banks -- and possibly the Fed if it has to borrow from the
central bank -- for the use of the funds not settled for an
extra day.
   As of late last night, bankers said that Citibank and a
few other banks were slow in clearing through the two major
payments systems. Bankers estimated that on an average day,
Citibank, the nation's biggest, clears about $50 billion
through the two payment systems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- American Stores Co.:
   Unit Agrees to Sell Buttrey
   In $184 Million Transaction
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   ASC
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
DRUG-BASED RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, PHARMACIES (RTD)
</IN>
<LP>
   American Stores Co. said its Skaggs Alpha Beta unit agreed
to sell its Buttrey Food and Drug division to an investment
group led by management of Buttrey and the merchant banking
firm of Freeman Spogli &amp; Co.
   American Stores said the transaction, expected to close in
60 days, is valued at $184 million -- $180 million in cash
and $4 million in lease assumptions. American said it will
retain $36 million in debt obligations related to the
division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Buttrey division, based in Great Falls, Mont.,
operates 44 food outlets and drugstores in six states, and
has annual sales of $476 million, American said.
   Freeman Spogli, based in Los Angeles, specializes in
management-led buy-outs.
   American Stores, based in Salt Lake City, operates food
stores and drugstores in 37 states.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Salomon Seeking
   To Market Issue
   That Bets on Oil
   ----
   By William Power and Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   SB BSC BT
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Salomon Inc., one of the brokerage firms that
scored a success earlier this year with "Nikkei warrants" to
bet on the Japanese stock market, is trying to do the same
thing with the oil market.
   Salomon filed for Securities and Exchange Commission
approval for a new security that appears to be the first
equity issue, as opposed to a futures contract or option,
that allows investors to bet on the future price of oil. The
Salomon Phibro Oil Trust units would trade on the American
Stock Exchange.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In May, Salomon tried to come out with a more complicated
version of the trust, but that offering was pulled when the
oil markets plunged. But now, with soaring oil prices caused
by Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, Salomon's timing seems better
for a big sale.
   A Salomon spokesman declined to comment, citing
regulations against public statements when an issue is
awaiting SEC approval.
   The units, which are being underwritten by Salomon
Brothers Inc., the company's securities subsidiary, and Bear,
Stearns &amp; Co., are designed for individual and institutional
investors. Each unit entitles the investor to a cash payment
based on the price of a quarter of a barrel of oil five years
from now.
   But the offering isn't without big risks. At a time when
many oil experts aren't sure what oil prices will be tomorrow
or next month, the Salomon offering is geared to predicting
where oil will be in 1995. The trust will pay a single cash
distribution in November 1995, based on the price of oil at
that time.
   If the price of oil isn't well over $20 a barrel then, the
investor won't make any money and could lose heavily if oil
prices have plunged from current levels.
   Investors can cash out early by selling their units on the
Amex, although it's unclear yet how active trading will
become.
   The units could have some advantages over oil futures.
Unlike oil futures contracts, with lifespans ranging from a
month to two years, the Salomon units can be bought and put
away by investors for five years. Also, if oil prices go
down, there won't be additional margin payments required as
there can be in the futures market.
   With plans to offer 12 million units at a maximum of $5
each, Salomon could raise as much as $60 million from the
public in the offering, in which its Phibro Energy Inc. unit
will play a role and in which an oil broker for Phibro, PVM
Oil Associates Inc., will be paid as an adviser.
   The Nikkei warrants that began trading earlier this year
were fortuitously timed. They were initially issued by
Salomon and several other U.S. securities firms as the Tokyo
stock market began falling sharply, and the value of the
warrants soared.
   The first Nikkei warrants were designed by Goldman, Sachs
&amp; Co. and issued by the Kingdom of Denmark on Jan. 12. Five
days later, Salomon issued its warrants, and others followed.
en
   In its registration statement for the proposed oil
offering, Salomon warns that investors "should understand the
risks of investments related to crude oil prices," which have
gyrated in recent years, from nearly $40 a barrel in the
early 1980s to as low as $11 later in the decade and back to
more than $20 last year.
   Salomon isn't the only player coming up with new ways to
play oil prices. Bankers Trust New York Corp. is expected to
announce in London a U.S.-style warrant with a life of 18
months, which permits the holder to elect whether to bet oil
prices will rise or fall. The investor has 90 days from the
issue date to decide which way to bet. The offering isn't
likely to be available to Americans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Thomas Cook Group Ltd.:
   U.S. Agency Clears Firm's
   Deak International Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.MID
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Thomas Cook Group Ltd. closed the purchase of the North
American retail foreign-exchange operations of Deak
International Ltd., after the Federal Reserve Board cleared
the U.S. portion of the transaction.
   The purchase is valued at about $12 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thomas Cook, a travel-services specialist, is a unit of
the London banking concern Midland Bank PLC. Deak, which has
interests in retail foreign exchange and precious metals, is
a unit of Jarden Morgan Ltd., a New Zealand
financial-services concern.
   Cook acquired 72 branches in the U.S. and 38 in Canada.
Earlier this year, Cook acquired 20 Deak retail branches in
the U.K. and one in New Zealand. Cook plans to convert the
Deak branches to the Cook name; Deak's retail operations
posted revenue of US$35 million for the year ended April 30.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Moody's Investors Service Inc.
   New Unit Formed to Track
   Firms Issuing Junk Bonds
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   DNB
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it formed a new unit
to track U.S. companies that issue junk bonds, in response to
heightened investor concerns about the increasingly risky
business climate.
   The new speculative-grade unit, within this rating
service's industrial-company group, includes six analysts who
will monitor debt securities rated Ba-1 and lower.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   M. Douglas Watson Jr., director of industrial ratings at
Moody's, said the new team of analysts will focus on the
ability of speculative-grade securities issuers to "generate
cash and to tap external sources of liquidity."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Charter Medical Corp.:
   Hospital Chain Posts Drop
   In Third-Quarter Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CMDA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Charter Medical Corp. reported a big drop in third-quarter
earnings.
   For the quarter ended June 30, Charter posted a net loss
of $40.6 million on revenue of $315.2 million, compared with
a net loss of $5.1 million on revenue of $308 million for the
year-earlier period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Macon, Ga.-based hospital chain also said it made a
scheduled $39 million interest payment on its 14.25% and 14%
subordinated debentures. "We're current with all our debt and
expect to remain so," said J. Rodney Laughlin, Charter's
executive vice president for human resources and development.
   He said the company has been working since June to improve
cash flow by cutting costs, mainly through reducing
personnel. In addition, he said, Charter will receive $42
million from the sale and leaseback of 12 hospitals to Health
Care Property Investors Inc. of Los Angeles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stock Prices Post Third-Largest Advance
   On Reports Iraq May Withdraw From Kuwait
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA FREST EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo share prices continued to soar on reports that Iraq
may withdraw its forces from Kuwait, with the Nikkei Index
posting its third-largest single-day advance.
   But trading was moderate, and analysts weren't confident
that the market's current bearish streak had snapped.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In London, meanwhile, shares firmed slightly in a choppy
session, aided by news that Imperial Chemical Industries sold
its 25% stake in Enterprise Oil.
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index closed at 28112.12, up 1439.59, or
5.4%. Combined with the previous day's advance, the 225-share
index posted a gain of nearly 2000 points in two days. Prices
rose across the board, but turnover was a meager 450 million
shares, up from Tuesday's 363 million shares. Advancers
outnumbered decliners 952 to 71, while 50 shares were
unchanged.
   At midmorning in Tokyo Thursday, the Nikkei index was down
450.75 points at 27661.37.
   On Wednesday, the Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues
listed in the first section gained 79.16 points, or 3.92%, to
2099.49.
   The second section index rose 105.35 points, or 2.51%, to
4100.71. Volume in the section was estimated at 11.7 million
shares, up from 9.9 million shares.
   Analysts say it is still uncertain whether the market has
bottomed out. "It is still too early to say the market has
turned around. It is still half-hearted," said Yasuhiko
Shinza, a fund manager at Nippon Life Insurance Co.
   Toshihiko Yoshimi, a senior analyst at Yamaichi Securities
Co., agreed: "There might be another gain of 1000 points or
so {Thursday} but I don't think the market is ready to go
back beyond the 30000-point level." He described the gain as
"technical" over the steep decline in the past two weeks and
said the market doesn't have much energy.
   Indeed, many analysts say the supply-demand situation
isn't favorable as institutional investors are waiting for a
chance to liquidate their holdings in time for the closing of
books for the first half ending next month. Analysts also
point to an unfavorable interest rate outlook. One analyst at
a major Japanese brokerage firm said, "There isn't any factor
at all in sight that might bring down interest rates."
   High interest rates and the crisis in the Middle East were
two major factors behind the recent dive in share prices. In
the two weeks since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, the market
had fallen more than 4000 points and at one point this week,
the index was down one-third from its peak at the end of last
year.
   But a few analysts noted an increasing view that the
market might have hit bottom, observing the reversal in the
attitude of investors who had been selling futures or selling
shares on credit. These analysts also noted increased buying
in Wednesday's trading by institutional investors such as
life insurance companies and investment trusts.
   The yen's advance on the foreign-exchange market
contributed to the sharp advance on the equity market,
boosting bond prices.
   Benefiting from the broad-based support Wednesday were
medium-sized blue-chip issues, such as Hitachi, up 110 yen to
1390 yen (74 cents to $9.35). Fujitsu rose 80 yen to 1340
yen, while Matsushita Electric Industrial rose 90 yen to 1890
yen.
   Sony rose 260 yen to 8080 yen, TDK gained 360 yen to 6620
yen, Fanuc rose 310 yen to 6490 yen, and Kyocera recovered
180 yen to 8180 yen.
   Heavy industry shares jumped higher as well. Kawasaki
Heavy rose 29 yen to 688 yen, IHI added 37 yen to 867 yen,
and Mitsubishi Heavy rose 40 yen to 870 yen.
   Trading house shares, which have been hurt badly by the
Persian Gulf conflict, recovered some losses. Mitsubishi
Corp. gained 60 yen to 1300 yen and Sumitomo Corp. rose 80
yen to 1130 yen.
   In London, the ICI deal was done early in the morning,
with brokerage firms Warburg Securities Ltd. and Cazenove &amp;
Co. confirming that they bought ICI's block of 113.3 million
Enterprise shares for 600 pence apiece, or #679.6 million
($11.39 apiece, or $1.29 billion).
   The firms then sold the shares on the open market for
about 607 pence a share, dealers said. A total of 232 million
Enterprise shares changed hands, with the stock closing down
45 pence at 628 pence. Meanwhile, ICI gained 5 pence to 950
pence.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index gained
5.3 points to 2239.3. Volume was 563.6 million shares,
compared with 330.9 million issues Tuesday. A large chunk of
yesterday's total came from the sale of the Enterprise stake.
   The Financial Times 30 Share Index rose 5.6 points to
1748.2.
   Dealers said that except for the Enterprise news, which
had been widely rumored, there wasn't much activity. Trading
conditions were sketchy as many investment decision makers
have closed their books for the summer holidays, the dealers
added.
   Ultramar shed 3 pence to 341 pence. The oil and gas
company said it agreed to acquire certain marketing and
refining assets of Imperial Oil Ltd., the Canadian unit of
Exxon Corp., for about #60 million.
   The oil majors also fell amid what one dealer termed
"shallow" profit-taking.
   British Petroleum fell 5 pence to 359 pence, while Shell
Transport &amp; Trading slid 9 pence to 475 pence. Both stocks
have advanced rapidly on the heels on developments in the
Middle East, market watchers said.
   Elsewhere, Lowndes Queensway, a furniture and carpets
company, called in receivers after it asked for its shares to
be suspended at 1 3/4 pence. The company said it has been
hurt by high U.K. base rates and falling consumer demand.
   Ferranti fell a penny to 25 pence. The electronics concern
said shareholders took up 47.3% of a 1-for-4 rights issue
offered as part of an efforts to gain better terms from bank
creditors.
   At 25 pence a share, the offer gives Ferranti #22.1
million. The remainder of the issue will go to its
underwriters, including Baring Brothers &amp; Co., the company's
financial advisers.
   Also, shares closed higher in Frankfurt, Zurich and
Amsterdam and mixed in Stockholm. South African gold stocks
closed down. Brussels, Madrid, Milan and Paris were closed
for a holiday.
   And stocks closed higher in Hong Kong, Taipei, Manila,
Singapore and Wellington, and lower in Sydney. Seoul was
closed for a holiday.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                 % This
                            Aug 14     Aug 13      Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. ..................     313.6      313.3     - 3.5
 Britain ...............     662.8      658.7     - 8.1
 Canada ................     385.8      383.5     -10.8
 Japan .................    1121.5     1103.2     -32.2
 France ................     480.8      483.5     -15.2
 Germany ...............     275.0      276.4     - 3.6
 Hong Kong .............    2250.7     2230.7     + 7.3
 Switzerland ...........     196.7      195.9     -10.9
 Australia .............     321.0      319.4     - 3.1
 World index ...........     484.4      481.1     -14.6
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT leveled off in July, indicating that the
economy continues to stumble. Factory production slipped 0.1%
and utility output fell 0.4%, but mining posted a 1% gain.
The nation's industrial operating rate fell to 83.4% of
capacity, down from 83.6% in June, which could temper some of
the inflation pressure stemming from higher oil prices.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cutting U.S. dependence on foreign oil by up to 550,000
barrels a day is envisioned under a Bush strategy calling for
voluntary conservation and higher domestic output. The plan
would replace much of the crude the U.S. imported from Iraq
and Kuwait.
   ---
   Stock and bond prices closed slightly higher after Bush
damped early optimism about a possible resolution with Iraq.
The Dow Jones industrials rose half a point to close at
2748.27. The dollar ended mixed.
   ---
   Trump could have a negative net worth of as much as $294
million, newly released documents show. And despite a bank
bailout, the developer could have a $106 million negative
cash flow in the year ending in April.
                                                                                                       

   Atlantic City's casinos posted a collective $4.3 million
loss before extraordinary items, marking the industry's worst
second quarter ever. Trump's three casinos fared much worse
than the other nine houses.
   ---
   Drexel's bankruptcy lawyers were harshly criticized by a
federal judge for the size of their fees. He reduced their
requested payments by 14%.
   ---
   Tokyo stock prices soared Wednesday, giving the Nikkei its
third-largest single-day advance. The index jumped 1439.59
points, or 5.4%. But analysts aren't confident that the
market's recent slide is over.
   ---
   Ford's plan to keep $100 million from the pension fund of
a defense unit Ford is selling to Loral is being questioned
by the Pentagon, which says it may lay claim to the money.
                                                                                                       

   Ford is idling two car-assembly plants and extending a
shutdown of a third in the face of sagging sales.
   ---
   Bank of New York's plan to acquire Northeast Bancorp for
$195.6 million was rejected by the Fed, which said the deal
would hurt Bank of New York's capital position.
   ---
   First Executive's customers redeemed $1.2 billion of
insurance policies in the second quarter. The figure, though
declining, indicates that the firm is still under financial
pressure.
   ---
   Sun Microsystems and IBM signed a patent-licensing accord
under which Sun will pay royalties to IBM. The pact comes in
the wake of IBM's tough patent-enforcement policy.
   ---
   Genentech and Abbott Labs settled a two-year-old patent
dispute about Genentech's TPA, removing the last legal cloud
over the heart drug.
   ---
   Tektronix, Zenith Electronics and four other firms were
picked by the Pentagon to work on military uses of
high-definition television.
   ---
   Salomon proposed to offer an equity security that would
allow investors to bet on the price of oil.
   ---
   Columbia S&amp;L estimates the cost of selling its junk-bond
portfolio at $50 million or more, and said its retail deposit
base eroded by nearly $250 million in the past four months.
   ---
   Imperial Oil agreed to sell refining and marketing assets
in Canada's Atlantic Coast provinces, plus some other assets,
in three transactions valued by analysts at about $260
million.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 135,210,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2748.27, up 0.50; transportation 961.68, off 6.02; utilities
205.17, up 0.69.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3386.31, up
7.96.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 134.16, up 0.21; spot
index 133.06, off 0.44.
   Dollar: 147.65 yen, off 1.13; 1.5660 marks, up 0.0015.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Peter J. Solomon Co. Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   WIX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- An investment group headed by Peter J.
Solomon, former vice chairman at Shearson Lehman Hutton, has
purchased 37 Wickes Lumber Co. retail outlets in the
Southeast. Terms of the transaction weren't disclosed.
   The lumber and building-supplies facilities, which
generated sales of $160 million in 1989, represent the first
acquisition by the Peter J. Solomon Co. The new venture, to
be called Leeds Building Products, will be based in Atlanta
and run by Kenneth L. Miron, a member of Mr. Solomon's
investment group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The purchase will leave Vernon Hills, Ill.-based Wickes
Lumber with 152 retail outlets nationwide.
   The purchase will "notably reduce" the debt incurred by
the company in a $300 million 1988 management buy-out,
according to Ric Morphet, Wickes senior vice president of
administration.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Negative Net Worth
   Of $294 Million
   Is Shown for Trump
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   X.TMP
</CO>
<IN>
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The New Jersey Casino Control Commission disclosed
previously confidential documents concerning Donald J.
Trump's empire that show that the developer could have a
negative net worth of as much as $294 million.
   The documents also show that even with a $65 million bank
bailout and partial suspension of debt payments, Mr. Trump's
operations are expected to have a negative cash flow of $106
million between May 1990 and April 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The report lists Mr. Trump's debts as totaling $3.21
billion and his assets ranging in value from $2.91 billion to
$4.62 billion. The lower number is the value of the assets if
they were forced to be sold today, while the higher number
anticipates values in a few years if the economy improves. If
the higher figure were applied, Mr. Trump would have a net
worth of $1.41 billion.
   Essentially the report spells out just how leveraged Mr.
Trump became in amassing over the past decade the assets he
fondly calls his "trophies." While the Plaza Hotel, Trump
Shuttle and Taj Mahal contributed to building Mr. Trump's
image as a purveyor of glitz, the documents show that the
purchases contributed to his near ruin.
   The report could also be embarrassing to Mr. Trump's
bankers because it details exactly how much each of them lent
to him. On Tuesday, the banks signed the final documents
securing the $65 million bailout.
   Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Trump declined to comment.
   The documents were filed as part of Mr. Trump's petition
to have the commission, which must approve any major changes
in a casino's financing, clear the $65 million bailout. Mr.
Trump's lawyers, who tried to stop the release of the
documents, had claimed that the information contained in the
report could prove damaging to Mr. Trump if it became public.
   The commission is scheduled to hold hearings today and
tomorrow, and is expected to issue a decision tomorrow.
   If the commission rejects the bank deal, the banks would
then either have to put together another loan or declare Mr.
Trump in default of numerous loans on which he is by now
overdue.
   Among the thousands of pages of released documents, the
most sensitive material appears to be a review of Mr. Trump's
assets that was performed by the accounting firm of Kenneth
Leventhal &amp; Co. on June 14, 1990. That firm is working for
Mr. Trump and the banks to devise a financial plan to put the
Trump Organization on sound financial footing.
   The accounting firm arrived at the numbers based on its
independent analysis and data provided by Mr. Trump. "We were
asked by the company at the request of the banks to come up
with a plan for the Trump Organization," said Stan Ross,
co-managing director of the firm. "Mr. Trump is not unique
among developers with this kind of problem."
   The Leventhal report shows that, without the bailout, Mr.
Trump would be expected to spend $6.2 million on personal and
household expenses from May 1990 to April 1991. Under the
bank arrangement, his personal spending is limited to
$450,000 per month in 1990 ($5.4 million), $375,000 a month
in 1991 and $300,000 a month in 1992 and thereafter.
   The report also anticipates that the cost of maintaining
Mr. Trump's yacht, the Trump Princess, would be $9.3 million
a year. The Trump Regency Hotel is expected to have a loss of
$5.6 million, the Trump Castle Hotel and Casino is slated for
a loss of $21.5 million, and the upkeep on a 70-acre real
estate vacant parcel in Manhattan is expected to cost Mr.
Trump $18.7 million.
   Of 22 assets owned by Mr. Trump listed, three, including
the Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino in Atlantic City, are
expected to show a profit in the next 12 months.
   The documents anticipate that Mr. Trump's recently
published "Trump: Surviving at the Top," will net the
developer $1.1 million. Royalties from his board game will
amount to $261,000.
   One person close to Mr. Trump said that were the Leventhal
documents to be prepared today, the valuations of his assets
would likely be even lower.
   As for the banks, the Leventhal report indicates that
Citicorp's Citibank unit is by far Mr. Trump's biggest
creditor, having lent Mr. Trump $993 million. Of that amount,
about $320 million was believed to be personally guaranteed
by Mr. Trump. Citibank sold the majority of its loans to over
50 other lending institutions.
   Mr. Trump also took out a total of $135 million in
unsecured loans, of which $104 million was lent by Bankers
Trust Co., a unit of Bankers Trust New York Corp. All told,
the amount Mr. Trump is believed to have borrowed that is
either unsecured or personally guaranteed is about $800
million.
   He also borrowed $47 million from Boston Co.'s Boston Safe
Deposit &amp; Trust Co. unit for the purchase of his Florida
residences, his yacht and "personal use."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   ...But Were
   His Past Raids
   Really Worth It?
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   TWA TX X X.ACF ITL
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- One of the tenets of the 1980s was that
raiding companies was a great way to make really big money.
But it's beginning to look as though Carl Icahn could have
done just about as well with a staid, buy-and-hold strategy.
   Mr. Icahn, a Brooklyn-born, Princeton-educated raider who
is 54 years old, ranks among the decade's most prominent
raiders and is still considered one of the "smart money"
types that investors like to follow.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now chairman of struggling Trans World Airlines, Mr. Icahn
made his name and much of his estimated $1 billion fortune by
buying big stakes in companies such as Texaco and USX, then
rattling his sword at their managers until they took steps to
push up the stock price.
   But a review of Mr. Icahn's big, public investments
suggests that he could have made as much money -- and saved
himself the hassle and expense of proxy fights, takeover bids
and confrontations -- if he had picked a few good stocks and
passively held onto them.
   Of course, it wouldn't have been as much fun. Mr. Icahn
says: "I have to buy {stocks} where I can be an activist.
It's not my nature to be like {Warren} Buffett," a
quadribillionaire from Omaha, Neb., who is famous for making
big, passive investments.
   For nearly four years, Mr. Icahn has been trapped in a
huge stake in USX, an oil and steel giant, that cost him $817
million. The investment has produced returns of less than 15%
a year, including dividends. Meanwhile, the shares of another
big oil company, Atlantic Richfield, have more than doubled.
   The investment that truly enriched Mr. Icahn -- and
elevated him to billionaire status -- was Texaco, an 18-month
holding that he sold in mid-1989 for a $650 million profit on
a $1.4 billion investment, or roughly 37% a year. But Mr.
Icahn could have done almost as well over the same time
period if he had quietly bought stock in Chevron or one of
many popular growth stocks.
   Mr. Icahn's returns from USX and Texaco, based on his
average holding time and including the dividends he received,
were calculated by Wealth Monitors, a Kansas City firm that
tracks America's richest stock players.
   Mr. Icahn "has proven he's a smart investor," says Michael
Short, an analyst at Wealth Monitors. But he adds that it
doesn't always pay to follow Mr. Icahn when he puts money
into something. "He's earned far more notoriety than his
investments might merit," Mr. Short says.
   Then there is Mr. Icahn's 90% stake in TWA, which was
suffering even before the Mideast crisis sent fuel costs
soaring. At first glance, Mr. Icahn seems to have done well
in TWA. In 1988, he piled debt onto the company to take it
private, taking out $469 million of cash -- a little more
than his initial cost to buy a 77% stake in TWA. And after
the buy-out, he owned 90% of the airline. So Mr. Icahn
essentially bought a big international carrier for nothing.
   On the other hand, it took Mr. Icahn three years to get
back his money in TWA. In that time, he forfeited more than
$100 million in interest he could have earned on the cash he
had invested in the airline. So, unless he can sell the
carrier, or unless it miraculously turns around, his
long-running involvement with TWA could turn out to be
unprofitable.
   To be sure, Mr. Icahn buys shares on margin, using
borrowed funds, as well as his own money. This raises his
risks but also his returns on the cash he actually invests.
On that basis, his annualized profit on Texaco was more like
70%, though he could have made a similar leveraged investment
in Chevron. And he might still make something of his USX
stake; that story isn't over.
   Mr. Icahn bought Texaco, he says, because he hoped he
could help settle its bankruptcy-law case and get the stock
price up. But he adds: "I've always said that buying and
selling stocks is not that great. The real money is made by
buying whole companies." He says his best investment ever was
ACF Industries, a rail car company and a vehicle for his
raids.
   In the mid-1980s, Mr. Icahn bought ACF for $20 million.
This year, he expects the rail car operation to throw off
more than $100 million in cash flow; in addition, ACF has
more than $1 billion in cash and securities.
   It is understood that Mr. Icahn recently got a tentative
bid for ACF's rail car operations from Samuel Zell, the
Chicago real estate and rail car tycoon who is chairman of
Itel Corp. Mr. Zell couldn't be reached to comment, but
apparently he initially valued ACF's rail cars alone at about
$800 million, then lowered his bid after looking at the tax
implications.
   Interestingly, Mr. Icahn hasn't used his Texaco profit to
make another splash in the stock market. When he cashed out
of Texaco in June 1988, speculators were betting he would
soon make a multibillion-dollar acquisition, perhaps of USX
or even Time Warner. Instead, he is making a foray into junk
bonds. The jury is still out on that particular venture.
   Recently, there have been rumors that Mr. Icahn, through
ACF, has been buying TWA's riskiest junk bonds, which will
soon start paying interest in cash and which have been
trading at about 30 cents on the dollar. Mr. Icahn won't
confirm this, and some analysts believe the bonds are
practically worthless.
   Since 1988, Mr. Icahn has spent huge amounts of time and
effort on TWA, which is embroiled in labor disputes. The
carrier has been a useful vehicle for his stock plays, but he
says he personally hasn't made a dime from the airline
itself.
   In the past, Mr. Icahn apparently hoped to sell TWA for as
much as $1 billion. But now some analysts believe his equity
interest in the airline isn't worth much.
   Indeed, many people wonder whether TWA can survive. It has
about $3 billion of long-term obligations, and next year its
cash deficit, after paying all debt charges and capital
spending, might be $800 million, according to a recent report
by an analyst at R.D. Smith &amp; Co., a New York firm that
specializes in distressed securities such as TWA's junk
bonds.
   The analyst's report suggests that TWA, even if it keeps
selling assets, might run out of cash in a year or so.
   Last week, TWA reported that second-quarter profit on
operations -- before interest and other charges -- fell by
almost half to $43.9 million from $80.5 million a year
earlier. After paying interest and other charges, TWA had net
income of $103.4 million, boosted by a $160 million gain on
asset sales.
   Mr. Icahn says, "The airline business is hard to operate
today." But he says TWA today has more than $1 billion in
cash and securities, which he could use either "to pursue
investment opportunities" or buy planes inexpensively, as
other airlines go bust. "Even some of my critics now agree I
did the right thing by not buying shiny new planes in the
last few years," he says. "There are already a lot of
bargains in planes on the market."
   Some people close to TWA believe its cash-flow deficit
next year shouldn't be more than $300 million, a gap it can
bridge by using its cash or selling more assets.
   TWA's $1 billion of cash and securities could dwindle, of
course, if the stock market tumbles. TWA's USX stake now is
valued at about $180 million, and it has other stocks. In
addition, TWA has cash in the bank of $650 million, thanks to
some recent asset sales.
   TWA pilots believe that if the carrier is to survive, it
needs big changes in the way it is run, and in its finances.
They recently floated a proposal for a debt-equity swap that
asked Mr. Icahn to relinquish some of his ownership stake in
TWA to creditors, in a bid to cut interest and lease costs by
about $300 million annually. In exchange, the pilots said
they would offer $150 million of wage concessions. Mr. Icahn
doesn't think much of the proposal.
   The investor sometimes makes money by investing passively.
In recent years, he says, "I bought Telephone {American
Telephone &amp; Telegraph} at the right time and I bought IBM at
the right time."
   But Mr. Icahn says he believes in activism: "What
individual is brave enough to stake $700 million on one
company, unless he's willing to make things happen, such as
settling a bankruptcy?"
   (See related story: "Carl Icahn Tackles New Game: Troubled
Junk Bonds..." -- WSJ August 16, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Film: Shock and Schlock From David Lynch
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   David Lynch has so finely tuned his hip subversiveness
he's verging on self-parody. In the publicity materials
promoting his latest movie, "Wild at Heart," for example, the
successful film maker ("Blue Velvet") and TV producer ("Twin
Peaks") cutely lists only one credit for himself: "Eagle
Scout, Missoula, Montana."
   The joke, of course, is that this Eagle Scout's work in
general, and "Wild at Heart" especially, takes considerable
glee in undermining everything represented by "Eagle Scout"
and possibly "Missoula, Montana." Mr. Lynch has become the
establishment's favorite naughty boy, whose familiarity and
even affection for American kitsch has allowed him to subvert
it on a mass-market scale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Still, Mr. Lynch specializes in shock, and after the
relative tameness imposed by network television on "Twin
Peaks," he now seems intent on pushing his specialty to the
limit, often with the shock being the only apparent purpose.
What else explains his decision to include in "Wild at Heart"
a closeup of flies slogging through a puddle of vomit? Or the
graphic shot of a man's head being blown off and the brains
spilling onto pavement?
   With this movie, Mr. Lynch again demonstrates his uncanny
ability to be trite and dazzling all at the same time. "Wild
at Heart" comes at you like a thundering piece of rock 'n'
roll that gets your blood rushing so long as you don't
analyze the lyrics too closely. Sometimes it's difficult to
tell whether Mr. Lynch is mocking banality or if he's just
being banal -- but with such visual sophistication he cons
you into thinking maybe there is something profound going on
even when there isn't.
   Oddly enough, "Wild at Heart" -- perhaps Mr. Lynch's most
sexually explicit and violent work -- also is his most
sentimental. There isn't any placid surface in his adaptation
of Barry Gifford's lithe little novel about two young lovers
called Sailor and Lula who take to the road. Mr. Lynch
dispenses altogether with an overlay of niceness; he charges
right at you with an opening round of eroticism and
brutality.
   Sailor and Lula are a trashy pair of young people who wear
snakeskin jackets (him) and wildly patterned tights and not
much else (her). They keep back their bad memories by having
a lot of sex -- vividly chronicled on screen -- and dancing
and driving around. Sailor's conversation sounds a lot like
someone who learned to talk by listening to Elvis. "I'd go to
the far end of the world for you baby," he says to Lula. "You
know I would."
   And yet there is something sweetly sentimental about these
two lost souls trying to lose themselves in one another
because being lost is the best place they've found. They are
the products of violence and neglect, so it isn't a surprise
that they are creatures of the present, not the future. Their
talk has a peculiar formality at times, as though their minds
are filled with random facts and phrases lifted from
advertising or magazine articles.
   "I guess I started smoking when I was about four," says
Sailor to Lula as they lie in bed after sex. "My mom was
already dead of lung cancer."
   Lula responds: "What brand did she smoke?"
   Sailor tells her that his mom smoked Marlboros, then adds:
"I didn't have much parental guidance."
   The material is perfectly suited to Nicholas Cage and
Laura Dern, two oddball actors who are both spacy and
intense. Sailor's the kind of no-luck man who ends up in the
middle of violence or watching it even when he doesn't mean
to. Lula's only 20, but the only thing in her memory is death
and assault. The two of them are pursued by Lula's mother,
played with eerie bombast by Ms. Dern's real mother, Diane
Ladd.
   Mr. Lynch hurls Lula and Sailor's odyssey among the
weirdos and maniacs up onto the screen with the mix of
sophistication and primal force that is uniquely his. Angelo
Badalamenti, the perpetrator of the insidiously compelling
"Twin Peaks" score, gooses the charge with the music. Blood
flows, body parts get blown off and then the Wizard of Oz
kicks in. I'm not kidding, though David Lynch might be.
   ---
   "Flatliners," a film about a group of medical students who
decide to experience near-death, takes the psycho-babble
approach to the dangers of mucking around with God's
business.
   Kiefer Sutherland plays the group leader, a disturbed
young man who has a dark secret in his past that he wants to
expurgate by dying, briefly, then having his colleagues
revive him. Though his description of near-death is fairly
incoherent, his fellow students are so captivated they all
decide to risk real death so they, too, can get a glimpse at
the great beyond.
   Director Joel Schumacher ("St. Elmo's Fire," "The Lost
Boys") has come to specialize in this kind of youth fantasy
picture, and he does have a certain style. He has shot this
film like one of those English horror movies in which doctors
rob morgues for clandestine experiments, all smoky and dark
with flames added for effect.
   His young actors, who include Julia Roberts and Kevin
Bacon, are quite good, however, and the movie manages to be
effectively creepy.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: In "Wild at Heart" David Lynch put Isabella
Rossellini in a small part looking pretty, as though he's
trying to make up for the ugly way he photographed her thighs
in "Blue Velvet." Ms. Rossellini was at her best in "Zelly
and Me," a psychological drama about a rich orphan terrorized
by her unkind grandmother. The movie is of particular
interest to David Lynch fans; he appears in a small role.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   New York Yankees
   Put Nederlander
   Onto Center Stage
   ---
   Theatre Owner Is Selected
   To Succeed Steinbrenner
   As Team General Partner
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In a choice that seemed to come out of left
field, the New York Yankees named a theater owner and
producer to succeed George Steinbrenner as general partner.
   Robert Nederlander, president of the Nederlander
Organization and a limited owner of the baseball team, was
voted into the job by his fellow owners at a meeting in
Cleveland. Mr. Nederlander couldn't be reached for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Steinbrenner said, "I have great confidence in Robert
as my selection. He comes from a family that has been
associated with my family for 20 years."
   A Yankees spokesman said that Mr. Nederlander was
approached after Mr. Steinbrenner's son, Hank, told his
father "he wasn't interested" in running the Yankees.
   The appointment of Mr. Nederlander, having been approved
by a majority of the 18 limited partners, must also be
approved by three-quarters of the American League owners and
a majority of the National League owners.
   Mr. Nederlander, 57 years old, is described by New York
theater producers as soft-spoken, low-key and businesslike,
working behind the scenes in the family business. "Robert is
the quiet member of the family; very decent and well
respected," said producer Arthur Cantor. "He's a lawyer, a
good businessman and he won't do anything without weighing
it. He is temperamentally totally opposite from George
Steinbrenner."
   "Anyone who can survive in the theater can survive in
baseball: the Nederlanders are very gutsy," said another
Broadway producer, David Brown. "Baseball is a kind of
theater: they have a lot in common."
   Mr. Nederlander is one of five brothers and a sister, most
of whom are closely involved with the family business, run
primarily from New York and Detroit. The Nederlanders own or
lease about 30 theaters and concert venues around the country
and in London. Mr. Nederlander's more flamboyant brother,
James Nederlander, is chairman of the Nederlander
Organization in New York and directly involved with booking
the theaters and producing shows. Robert Nederlander handles
primarily financial and real estate aspects of the family
business, said Nederlander general manager Arthur Rubin.
   The Yankees limited partners were asked not to talk to the
press about the appointment, but a source close to the team
said that Mr. Nederlander was "a tremendously popular
choice," adding, "It's going to be a whole different
ballgame."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Columbia S&amp;L Estimates Cost of Selling
   Its Junk-Bond Portfolio at $50 Million
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   CSV
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- Columbia Savings &amp; Loan
Association disclosed that its proposal to sell its $3
billion junk-bond portfolio will cost it at least $50
million, and that its retail deposit base has eroded by
nearly $250 million in the last four months.
   Separately, a federal appeals court dealt a setback to
Columbia's former chief executive officer, Thomas Spiegel, in
his effort to avoid posting $21 million in an escrow account
as part of defending against government charges that he
squandered Columbia assets for his personal use.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The disclosures about Columbia were made in its latest
quarterly report to the Office of Thrift Supervision, and
point up the depth of the challenge facing current management
in trying to obtain regulator approval for the bond
transaction and to keep the troubled institution afloat.
   As previously reported, Columbia agreed last month to sell
the bond portfolio to a partnership affiliated with
Toronto-based Gordon Investment Corp. for slightly more than
the book value of the bonds. The transaction is scheduled to
close on Oct. 2, but regulators must first approve it by
Sept. 20. Columbia's board also hasn't formally approved the
transaction, which has already been under attack for being
too favorable to the buyer because of generous financing
terms.
   But in the regulatory filing, Columbia said that after
fees and other factors, the transaction would add "in excess
of $50 million" to its already considerable shareholder
deficit of $350 million. Among other factors, Columbia is
understood to be paying its financial adviser on the
transaction, First Boston Corp., an $11 million fee. In
addition, the loss reflects the fact that terms of the sale
give the Gordon group all bond interest income that is
received after closing, even covering periods in which
Columbia was the actual owner of the bonds.
   Columbia officials continued to strongly defend the
transaction. Spokesman Charles A. Yamarone said: "We feel
that the proposed deal is the best available transaction to
dispose of the bonds in their entirety."
   The quarterly filing also notes that Columbia expects to
realize a gain in excess of $55 million from selling an
equity stake in Motel 6 L.P. of Dallas as part of a pending
tender offer for the hotel concern by Accor S.A. of France.
   Those funds are separate from the $150 million to $250
million in additional gains that Columbia expects to realize
as part of selling other equity securities it obtained in
conjunction with building its junk portfolio. Columbia
officials consider those gains to be a crucial element of
what is widely considered to be a long-shot attempt to save
the thrift from federal seizure.
   Columbia must sell the junk bonds because of a provision
of the thrift bailout law.
   Columbia also reported in the regulatory filing that
retail deposits declined by $248.6 million for the four
months ended July 31, reflecting depositor concern over its
condition. The thrift has lost about 16% of its $2.8 billion
retail base since year end. Nonetheless, Mr. Yamarone
asserted that Columbia is in a strong liquidity position, in
part because of a plan to sell $500 million in
mortgage-backed securities this month.
   On Tuesday, Columbia reported a net loss of $136.5
million, or $6.78 a share, for the second quarter.
   Meanwhile, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals stayed a
lower-court order that permanently blocked the Office of
Thrift Supervision from requiring Mr. Spiegel to put the $21
million in escrow. As reported, Los Angeles federal Judge
Stephen Wilson on Aug. 3 had held that the OTS had exceeded
its authority in making the escrow demand. The appeals court
indicated a hearing on the issue wouldn't be held until
November. Mr. Spiegel's lawyers have asked the court to
clarify whether he must escrow any of the money before the
hearing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Commodity Prices Aren't Rising
   Despite the Surge in Gold and Oil
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Futures prices for crude oil and gold have skyrocketed in
response to tensions in the Middle East, but there's little
evidence that inflationary fears are spreading to other
commodity markets.
   Abundant supplies of U.S. grain crops and declining export
demand are likely to keep most agricultural commodity price
gains modest. A slowdown in world economic growth and in
metal consumption also will hold back price gains for metals
futures and related industrial products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An index of prices for 23 commodities that excludes oil
and gold has declined 2% in value since July 1, despite
events in the Mideast, according to Commodity Research Bureau
Inc. "The commodity markets are trying to tell us that this
is a temporary oil shock that will not cause overall higher
inflation," said Lawrence Kudlow, chief economist at Bear,
Stearns &amp; Co.
   Even if oil prices remain near current levels a year from
now, other commodity markets aren't expected to feel much
inflationary heat. By that time, oil prices would have pushed
the economies of many countries into recession, which would
curtail demand for most commodities.
   The following is a survey of price trends in a half-dozen
commodity futures markets:
                                                                                                       

   Wheat
                                                                                                       

   Favorable weather patterns and "abysmal" export demand
have depressed U.S. wheat futures prices about 30% in the
past year, says Daniel Basse, director of market research for
AgResource Co., Chicago. Just last week, the Agriculture
Department said it expects the harvest for the crop year
ended June 30 to total 2.71 billion bushels. That would be a
33% jump from the year-earlier drought-shriveled harvest. By
next June, U.S. wheat stockpiles are expected to reach 846
million bushels, up from a drought-reduced 542 million for
the year just ended.
   Meanwhile, the Soviet Union is predicting a near-record
grain crop this season. Even if millions of bushels rot in
the fields because of bureaucratic bungling and scarce fuel
for harvest machinery, the crop is expected to reduce Soviet
grain imports from all sources by 20% through mid-1991. A
scarcity of hard-currency reserves is also curtailing
Moscow's imports. Other importers, eyeing mounting wheat
stockpiles world-wide, aren't rushing to place orders with
U.S. suppliers, either.
                                                                                                       

   Corn
                                                                                                       

   The same trends pushing wheat futures lower are weighing
on corn futures prices. A wet spring delayed planting in many
regions, but favorable conditions since then are expected to
result in a 4% increase in this year's crop to 7.85 billion
bushels. Year-end stockpiles are expected to grow as well, to
1.33 billion bushels from 1.22 billion a year earlier. Soviet
corn imports are likely to tail off in line with wheat
imports.
                                                                                                       

   Sugar
                                                                                                       

   Unlike wheat and corn stockpiles, sugar supplies are
relatively tight after two years of strong demand. But
because Iraq is a major sugar importer, sugar futures prices
plunged on news of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. Prices bounced
back somewhat in subsequent days as traders decided the
sell-off had gone too far.
   Rumors of recent export demand are also supporting prices,
although U.S. buyers appeared to back away as prices
approached 11 cents a pound in recent days, says Charles
Kolligian, a futures trader with Rodman &amp; Renshaw Inc. in New
York. Sugar futures prices may climb further in coming months
if, in the face of sustained higher oil prices, Brazil
diverts more of its sugar crop to produce gasohol, which
would further shrink world sugar supplies.
                                                                                                       

   Copper
                                                                                                       

   Relatively brisk demand from Europe and Japan, coupled
with supplies that have been reduced by labor disputes or
other disruptions at mines in Chile, Peru, Zambia and New
Guinea, have pushed futures prices higher. Japanese imports
of refined copper this year are expected to be 35% higher
than last year. Users' inventories are at about four weeks'
consumption, compared with a longer-term average of five to
six weeks, says Frederick Demler, a futures analyst with
PaineWebber Inc. in New York.
   Nevertheless, world copper consumption is expected to rise
just 1% this year as economic growth in most Western
countries continues to slow. And if oil prices remain at
current levels a year from now, copper consumption in 1991
could be flat with this year or down by about 1%, Mr. Demler
says.

   Aluminum
                                                                                                       

   Futures prices are higher, mainly because of concern about
possible production disruptions at four aluminum smelters in
the Mideast, two in the United Arab Emirates and one each in
Iran and Bahrain. The four smelters collectively account for
about 3% of world aluminum production, Mr. Demler says.
   But demand for aluminum is declining in step with slowing
economic growth around the world. Consumption is expected to
be up about 1% this year from last, but that pales beside the
5% gain seen in 1989. Sustained higher oil prices would be
likely to reduce demand from several industries that are
major consumers, including the automobile, construction and
aircraft industries. Beverage container makers are also big
users of aluminum, but higher oil prices won't put much of a
dent in their consumption, Mr. Demler says.
                                                                                                       

   Silver
                                                                                                       

   Futures prices have ridden gold's coattails to higher
levels in recent weeks, but the rise is almost exclusively
due to uncertainty about the Mideast. World consumption of
silver is expected to increase this year only 1%, compared
with 4.5% in 1989, Mr. Demler says.
   In any case, the rally in silver futures prices started
from such depressed levels that it isn't likely to provide an
inflationary "kick" to the economy. A few months ago, silver
futures traded at less than $5 an ounce, or close to the cost
of production for several major producers.
   In commodity market activity yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Crude oil prices ended slightly higher in another
volatile session dominated by news and speculation from the
Middle East. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude for
September delivery ended at $26.46 a barrel, up four cents.
The contract traded as high as $26.75 and as low as $25.60.
Late in the afternoon, prices fell after the Dow Jones
International Petroleum Report said Saudi Arabia was working
on a formula to allow 11 OPEC members to produce the group's
self-imposed quota of 22.5 million barrels a day. Such a plan
would restore almost all of what the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries was producing before Iraq
invaded Kuwait, resulting in a world-wide embargo against oil
from those two countries.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Late profit-taking in gold erased early
gains triggered by a tough speech on the Middle East by
President Bush. Gold for December deliver ended with a loss
of $2.70 an ounce at $411.30 after trading as high as
$414.40. Mr. Bush said the U.S. must make sure that the trade
and oil embargo imposed on Iraq for its invasion of Kuwait
remains tight. Analysts said gold producers have been
aggressive sellers in recent days. One analyst said the
producers "may have sold more recently than they've sold in
12 months." But the market was volatile, with traders warily
watching the arrival of Jordan's King Hussein in the U.S. for
a meeting with Mr. Bush. "Many traders sold contracts because
they don't want to be caught by any surprises that may
develop from the meeting," one analyst said. In the cash
market, the bullion price dipped as far as $398 an ounce but
was able to recover to above $400 and stay there. Silver,
meanwhile, suffered a sharp break after two days of strong
advances, reacting to similar moves in gold. "Anytime gold
shows signs of easing, there is a tendency among traders to
quickly liquidate their long {buying} positions in silver
because the supply of the metal is adequate," one analyst
said. Silver is "a purely speculative market that's not
trading on supply-demand fundamentals," he said. The December
contract settled 13.1 cents lower at $5.2010 an ounce.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Soybean futures prices fluctuated in
a 12-cent range before closing slightly higher. Prices
plunged in early trading on reports, which turned out to be
erroneous, that Brazil was providing much more credit than
expected to farmers. That led futures traders to predict that
Brazil would produce more soybeans for export, thereby
boosting world supplies and lowering cash and futures market
prices. Later, analysts learned that the credit was for $4.2
billion, which was in line with expectations. Futures prices
were also whipsawed by reports, later apparently contradicted
by the Agriculture Department, that export credits for the
purchase of vegetable oils would be reduced. Soybeans for
November delivery gained 1.25 cents a bushel to close at
$6.27.
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Futures prices were mixed. The October contract
plunged its limit of two cents a pound for the second day in
a row, ending at 70.85 cents, but later months showed slight
gains. The selling in the October contract kept pressure on
other months and limited their gains, said Thomas Mueller, a
Merrill Lynch analyst. Mr. Mueller said that until recently
there was strong buying of the October contract, as traders
believed that commitments to industrial users wouldn't be met
because of weather problems in the Rio Grande Valley
cotton-growing areas in Texas. But lately, the crop in the
Mississippi Delta has made excellent progress and seems
likely to make up for any shortages from Texas, according to
Mr. Mueller. He also said fears of a recession, which could
sharply reduce industrial demand for cotton, have prompted
traders to sell contracts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Markets Defended
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   New York City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman, a Democrat,
on the proposed stock-transaction tax: "A bullet aimed at the
heart of New York City. This is a tax on all Americans who
save in the form of stocks and bonds, and in particular, it
is a tax on all American workers' pension funds. This is the
wrong tax at the wrong time." Next thing we know, Governor
Cuomo will be coming out for a cut in the capital-gains tax.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   The Man Who Spawned New Kids on the Block
   ----
   By Paul Katzeff
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Boston -- The teenage girls knew exactly who he was. Then
again, it would be hard to mistake him for anyone else. In
his ersatz military dress uniform, resplendent with gold
braid, ribbons and medals, burly bodyguard doing a Mr. T
imitation at his side, there is only one Maurice Starr, the
man they call the General.
   So it was hardly a surprise when, every time the
middle-aged man sallied out from backstage at the Strand
Theater here to gain an audience-eye view of the action, the
girls would approach. They were asking for autographs -- not
a performer's but his.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To everybody who still adds "teen" to the end of his or
her age, Mr. Starr is a star. He's the man who gave the world
New Kids on the Block, the five Boston rockers who currently
reign as princes of pop.
   And Mr. Starr definitely is the power behind the throne.
He's done everything from recruiting the band members to
writing most of their songs, doing backup vocals and
instrumentals on their recordings, and producing and
co-managing them. Their success has been very much his, too.
He laughingly admits to having earned more than $1 million
last year. In one recent week alone, he says, he received
checks totaling $6 million for Kids biz ranging from
management commissions to royalties. Such pay days recently
enabled him to purchase a stately, 12-bedroom, Georgian-style
brick home in affluent suburban Brookline for $1.5 million,
$576,000 of it in cash. Or was that for one of the other five
homes he's bought for family and friends? He can't remember.
   Careers have been capped with less, but this night at the
Strand Maurice Starr was at work on his encore. In between
the hopeful competitors in the talent show he was hosting --
top prize a recording contract with CBS and $1,500 -- were
five "guest acts" from Mr. Starr's stable of newcomers. All
told, Mr. Starr has eight new acts under his tutelage.
   Like New Kids, most were created by him. Mr. Starr is
their producer, manager or co-manager, and chief songwriter.
It is typically Mr. Starr or his handpicked coaches who teach
the youngsters to sing, play and dance -- often while the
group is recording an album.
   All that, plus some of his groups' penchant for
lip-synching in concert, provides fodder for detractors who
deride Mr. Starr as a puppeteer orchestrating wooden
marionettes. The General defends his involvement as
"teamwork." And judging from their howls of puppy love, the
paying customers here tonight certainly don't object.
   Mr. Starr points out that he's hardly the first to employ
this tutorial approach. Motown Records, for one, made great
successes out of acts that had been groomed -- including the
Supremes -- and Mr. Starr says he'd love nothing better than
to surpass the hit-parade count achieved by Berry Gordy and
Kenny Gamble, two gurus of that golden age.
   The real distinction, Mr. Starr says, is his crossing
rock's color barrier. "No other black manager has managed . .
. acts that are white, the top acts in the world," says Mr.
Starr. "This will give other black promoters a chance."
   Not so long ago, success of any sort seemed unlikely for
36-year-old Mr. Starr. Born Larry Johnson, he grew up in a
musical family in a Florida hamlet. In 1972, he and four of
his five brothers boarded a bus for Boston, where an uncle
had offered to manage them. The band struggled for
recognition, and broke up in 1976. Johnson, who by then could
play a bandful of instruments, emerged with little more than
a new name; he had changed his first to Maurice on the eve of
a trip to France and his last to Starr to reflect his lofty
goals. His subsequent solo career failed to take him out of
seedy nightclubs where, he recalls, "people were shootin'
bullets through the walls."
   His break came in 1981 when he met four black youngsters
from a Boston housing project who called themselves New
Edition. He became their producer, songwriter and main backup
musician. They became stars. The youngest member, Bobby
Brown, has since spun off a successful career of his own
(without Mr. Starr), finishing behind only New Kids on
Billboard's 1989 ranking of top pop artists.
   By 1983, though, New Edition had dismissed Mr. Starr in a
squabble over money. Mr. Starr had to start over, but
determined to do so with one big difference: The next band
would be white.
   "There are more than 100 million white people in this
country and more than 30 million blacks," he says. "That's a
big difference in potential audiences, and each will support
its own." Mr. Starr hit the jackpot with New Kids, whom he
taught to perform in a black teen style.
   Still, Mr. Starr's strategy of total control has not
always worked. "Irving &amp; the Twins never made it," he sighs,
recalling a group he produced in the early '80s. "One twin
gained weight and didn't look like a twin. Irving grew three
feet."
   With his latest groups, Mr. Starr is sticking with the
familiar. Whether it's New Generation, a Hawaiian version of
New Kids, or Heart, Body &amp; Soul, a female quintet that even
Mr. Starr characterizes as "sugar-coated," all of his new
acts sport a teen-oriented funk sound.
   "I find all my performers on the street," says Mr. Starr,
who insists that the crucial ingredient he looks for is not
musical talent, but "the look." "I'm an image person," he
explains. "So if I don't see it, I lose my enthusiasm." He
saw it in each member of Heart, Body &amp; Soul, which he
assembled last year. "I was looking for five beautiful girls,
in nice colors," Mr. Starr says. Typical was Lucy Gonzalves,
of Cape Verdean descent, spotted while modeling in a fashion
show at a Boston jazz club.
   And Mr. Starr most certainly saw it in Craig Gendreau, a
lithe 17-year-old former model. Mr. Starr first noticed him a
year ago at a talent show in New Hampshire, where the
high-school sophomore from the old Massachusetts mill city of
Fall River was a spectator. No question, Gendreau is Mr.
Starr's personal favorite, the prospect he has unabashedly
touted as "the next Elvis."
   "I saw it from his lips to his eyes to his face to that
small body the girls like," says Mr. Starr. Mr. Starr has
given Gendreau the stage name Rick Wes, and for months has
been teaching the heartthrob-in-training how to sing and play
guitar and, perhaps most important of all, move on stage.
   "He makes those moves toward the girls with his acoustic
guitar; it kills them]" says Mr. Starr, shouting to be heard
over the amplified music and frenzied crowd at the Strand.
   Mr. Starr pauses to watch his apprentice careen across the
stage, planting his feet for a few slow hip grinds before
letting go with two power pumps. The audience rewards the
doe-eyed kid in the baggy dark suit with whoops and screams.
   "Just look at this," Mr. Starr beams with something akin
to parental pride. "This boy is gonna be a big star. Real
big]"
   And why not? The kids eat up Wes's cotton-candy lyrics.
Their shrieks most certainly are not in protest against his
lip-synching and fake guitar-strumming. If it does happen,
the suspicion lingers that Mr. Starr already will be grooming
yet other green talent in his stable.
   For other than this, the man they call the General would
be lacking in purpose, for the money and the success are only
half of it. To see this paunchy middle-aged man in the
studio, sporting a rhinestone-studded denim jacket and
lovingly crooning into a microphone, adding background yelps
and moans to an album by Homework, is to see Larry Johnson,
rock 'n' roller.
   Over and again he works each track, quietly coaching
himself between takes. "Dreamier," he says one time. "Gotta
open your mouth more," he suggests next. Then, clenching a
fist, "Make it young, get that young sound]"
   Finally, he plays back a version that satisfies him. He
can't help celebrate with a triumphant whoop: "I been waitin'
for this moment in my life so long, man]"
   ---
   Mr. Katzeff is a Boston-based free-lance writer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fruit of the Loom
   Stake Is Cut by Farley
   In $43 Million Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   FTL WPM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- William Farley's investment empire continued to
shrink with a sale of $43 million of Fruit of the Loom Inc.'s
common.
   The sale to Land Free Investment Ltd., based in the
Channel Islands, apparently reduces the voting stake in the
underwear manufacturer controlled by Mr. Farley to little
more than 50% from nearly 60% two years ago, according to
people close to Mr. Farley's closely held interests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Farley officials didn't return phone calls seeking comment
yesterday.
   Mr. Farley was pressured to make yesterday's sale by some
of his bankers, sources said. They said profit will be used
largely to pay overdue bank debt. A $37.9 million payment to
certain bondholders that was due yesterday probably won't be
made for now, they said.
   Meanwhile, negotiations continued among Mr. Farley, the
bondholders and bankers over control of West Point-Pepperell
Inc., according to sources close to that situation. Mr.
Farley hasn't been able to complete last year's $1.56 billion
tender offer for West Point-Pepperell, a textile concern
based in West Point, Ga.
   Mr. Farley's financial strength, which was based on junk
bonds, ebbed after the collapse of his investment banker,
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
   Farley Inc., the selling entity in yesterday's stock
transaction, said in a Securities and Exchange Commission
filing that profit from the sale will "significantly reduce
the likelihood" of the "adverse consequences of an
unfavorable restructuring of Farley Inc."
   Yesterday's sale involved 3,750,000 Class B shares of
Fruit of the Loom at $11.50 a share. Farley's SEC filing said
it sold 335,000 Fruit of the Loom Class A shares on the open
market between June 19 and July 26 for $12 to $13.25 a share.
   Fruit of the Loom closed yesterday at $12.625 a share, up
$1.125, in American Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Teledyne Ex-Official
   Charged in Scheme
   To Defraud the Navy
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   TDY
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In federal court in Manhattan, the former
president of a Teledyne Inc. division was charged with making
false statements to the Defense Department in connection with
an alleged scheme to defraud the Navy on a helicopter
contract.
   The defendant, Cirino Giampapa, 69 years old, of
Massapequa, N.Y., was president of Teledyne Hydra-Power, a
division of the parent company's Teledyne Industries Inc.
unit. In a settlement with the Defense Department, the unit
last year paid $11.9 million to cover overcharges stemming
from the scheme, as well as interest and penalties, the U.S.
attorney's office in Manhattan said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Walter Bonner, an attorney for Mr. Giampapa, could not be
reached for comment.
   Avraham Moskowitz, the assistant U.S. attorney in charge
of the case, said Teledyne Hydra-Power submitted false claims
totaling $4.5 million between 1980 and 1986. The alleged
scheme involved inflating the number of hours worked. The
figures were provided to the Defense Department and to its
general contractors to justify prices charged by the Teledyne
division for helicopter parts it made.
   A Teledyne spokesman said the company's auditing staff
uncovered the problem in 1986, which was then flagged to the
Defense and Justice departments.
   The U.S. attorney's office said that Michael Rosenberg,
41, of Suffern, N.Y., a former controller at Teledyne
Hydra-Power, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiring to
defraud the U.S. in connection with the alleged scheme.
Morton Baine, 54, of New Rochelle, N.Y., also a former
controller at the division, was charged with participating in
the alleged conspiracy.
   Carl Bernstein, an attorney for Mr. Baine, said his client
pleaded innocent.
   Elkan Abramowitz, an attorney for Mr. Rosenberg, couldn't
be reached for comment. The U.S. attorney's office said Mr.
Rosenberg's sentencing is set for Oct. 17 before U.S. Judge
Vincent Broderick.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Continental Bank's
   Securities Ratings
   Downgraded by S&amp;P
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   CBK
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it downgraded its
ratings on Continental Bank Corp.s senior debt to Triple-B
from Triple-B-plus and on its preferred stock to
Double-B-plus from Triple-B-minus.
   Also, S&amp;P said it affirmed the rating on the corporation's
commercial paper at Single A-2.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, S&amp;P said it downgraded the ratings on
Continental Illinois Overseas Finance Corp. N.V.'s
subordinated debt to Triple-B-minus from Triple-B.
   Also, Continental Bank N.A.'s senior notes, long-term
certificates of deposit, and letter of credit backed issues
were lowered to Triple-B-plus from Single-A-minus, and its
short-term certificates of deposit and letter of credit
backed issues are affirmed at Single A-2, the rating agency
said.
   S&amp;P said about $1 billion in term debt outstanding is
affected.
   S&amp;P said: "Continental is almost entirely focused on
wholesale banking lines of business, whose core profitability
has eroded as a result of a lower volume of transactions,
particularly for leveraged buyout financings. The company has
initiated a restructuring program to help rein in overhead
expenses that had gotten out of line in a slower business
environment.
   "Even assuming full implementation of the restructuring
program," S&amp;P said it "expects core profitability will remain
under pressure given the intense competition and industry
overcapacity in wholesale banking."
   S&amp;P also said it is "concerned about Continental's large
exposure to highly leveraged transactions and the recent
deterioration in that portfolio's asset quality."
   "Partly offsetting these concerns are an adequate level of
capital and full reserves for the remaining exposure to
lesser developed countries," S&amp;P said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900816-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900816-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Mexico Reacts Coolly to Prospect
   Of a Windfall in Its Oil Earnings
   ----
   By Matt Moffett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MEXICO CITY -- For a country that stands to bank a
providential $2 billion in this year's oil price run-up,
Mexico is in a surprisingly subdued, even apprehensive, state
of mind these days.
   Mexico's Bolsa de Valores, one of the fastest growing
stock markets in the world through most of this year, has
gone into a funk ever since Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. The
influential chief of the Mexican Senate's energy commision
spoke dismissively about "rarely reliable" fluctuations in
the oil markets. Employees of the state oil monopoly,
Petroleos Mexicanos, or Pemex, still talk as skeptically as
though oil prices were in full retreat. "You can't count on
what's happening in the Middle East to improve things in
Mexico," says Javier Gomez, a Pemex office worker.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After nearly a decade of economic crisis triggered by
sinking oil prices, why aren't Mexicans toasting their sudden
gusher of good luck? For one thing, many Mexicans are worried
that rising oil prices will be the last straw that leads to a
recession in the U.S., the major market for Mexico's
manufactured exports and biggest source of Mexico's foreign
investment. The Middle East crisis has also pricked a soft
spot in the Mexican psyche -- the country's complicated
attitude toward oil.
   "This has always been an oil country that doesn't think
like an oil country," says Jorge Diaz Serrano, who went from
the Pemex chief executive's suite during the oil boom of the
1970s to a penitentiary cell during the debt bust of the
1980s. Mr. Diaz Serrano spent five years in jail after being
convicted for embezzling $34 million from the government.
   Foreign refiners, seeing oil reserves in Mexico that some
consider the equal of those in Saudi Arabia, certainly think
of Mexico as an oil country. Scrambling for crude supplies in
the hours after the Iraqi invasion, they quickly found their
way to Pemex, the fifth-biggest oil company in the world. But
Pemex's capital budget has been so constrained since the debt
crisis that the company could manage only a temporary
increase of 100,000 barrels in its daily 1.2 million-barrel
export output.
   Still, if the rise in world oil prices sticks -- as it
well might with U.S. and Iraqi soldiers digging in --
Mexico's balance of payments could be substantially
strengthened. If prices hold at $25 a barrel, Mexico earns an
extra $14 million a day above budget estimates, or an
additional $2 billion through year end. The extra cash could
hardly come at a better time. The government's policy of
tearing down trade borders and stabilizing the exchange rate
has caused imports to almost double since 1987. This year's
deficit in the current account, the broadest measure of
trade, may reach as much as $6 billion.
   But higher oil prices could also have some less beneficial
effects on Mexico's economy. Since oil prices collapsed in
the early 1980s, Mexico has made a great effort to promote
manufactured exports as an alternative source of foreign
exchange. Now, 65% of Mexico's export income is derived from
sales of manufactured goods and 35% from sales of oil, almost
the reverse of the proportion in 1985.
   "Mexicans didn't celebrate these oil price increases for
very long, because they soon began to worry about what would
happen to manufactured exports if our major market {the U.S.}
fell into an oil recession," says Jorge Vazquez Costilla, an
economist at Grupo Visa S.A., a huge conglomerate.
   Felipe Pablo Martinez, chief of a large Mexican shoe
exporter, Emyco S.A., got a sense of an impending U.S.
economic crunch at a shoe fair in New York two weeks ago.
"All the buyers were depressed and complaining about how bad
things look," he says. Yet Mr. Martinez had no trouble
getting U.S. retailers to check out his moderately priced
product. "There are many Mexican exporters like us, that have
niches that look more attractive during a recession than
during a boom," he says.
   Middle-market exporters like Mr. Martinez, along with the
extra oil revenue, ought to get Mexico through a U.S.
recession in fair shape, according to Mauro Leos, vice
president of operations of Wharton Econometric Forecasting
Associates in Philadelphia. Mr. Leos does think a U.S.
downturn might hit some Mexican industries pretty hard,
particularly the automobile industry, a big producer of jobs
and foreign exchange for Mexico.
   Yet "Mexico seems to end up with more dollars with higher
oil prices in most of the scenarios we've examined," Mr. Leos
says. Mexico would be a loser, he says, only if a U.S.
recession is far deeper than most analysts consider likely.
   That being the case, some say Mexico's subdued response to
the oil-price rebound has more to do with psychology then
economics. In Mexico, oil has always been freighted with
symbolic significance -- what Mr. Diaz Serrano calls "the
black legend." It has never been viewed as just another
commodity.
   After buccaneering foreign petroleum companies were
nationalized in 1938, oil became a symbol of Mexican
nationalism. When prices shot up during the late 1970s, oil
was viewed as Mexico's ticket to the First World. Today,
Mexicans think of oil as the catalyst for a reckless
government's borrowing binge that brought about Mexico's
worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.
   That last view will be slow to change. "In the late '70s
the president told Mexicans that the country's only challenge
was `administering the abundance.' It was like Santa Claus,"
says Federico San Roman, a psychiatrist and political writer.
"Today, the government is being very austere in its response
to higher prices. It probably knows that, by now, people will
believe it only when they see it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
