<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oil Prices Top $30 a Barrel,
   Their Highest Since 1985
   ---
   Quotes for Fuel Also Surge
   During Frantic Trading
   Spurred by Fears of War
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST AFRIC LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Thirty-dollar oil is back.
   Mounting war scares drove futures prices of crude in
London and New York beyond $30 a barrel -- the highest level
for the North Sea Brent and the U.S. West Texas Intermediate
since 1985. Some oil prices reached as high as $40 a barrel
in the early 1980s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On London's International Petroleum Exchange, Brent crude
for October delivery broke through the psychologically
important level only moments before the close and then
settled $2.56 a barrel higher at $30.19. In the U.S. futures
market, October crude traded above $30 by early afternoon and
ended at $31.22 a barrel, up $2.51.
   Fuel prices also leaped in frantic futures trading. On the
New York Mercantile Exchange, September heating oil jumped
7.64 cents to pass 91 cents a gallon. Motor fuel wasn't far
behind. Unleaded gasoline for September delivery rose 2.85
cents to $1.04 a gallon.
   The petroleum-price surge helped drive down stock and bond
prices in U.S. markets.
   Growing Middle East tensions contributed to both
developments, with the oil-price climb being accelerated by
news that Saudi Arabia's exports of refined products may be
drying up because the fuels are needed by military forces
within its borders.
   Before European and U.S. markets opened, Japanese
customers of Saudi Arabia reported they had been notified
that deliveries of so-called middle distillates, which
include fuels such as kerosene and diesel oil, will be
suspended for September. That led to the run-up in European
and U.S. markets in prices of heating oil, which is closely
related to diesel fuel and other middle distillates.
   Oil industry officials confirmed that supplies of some
petroleum products are beginning to tighten in some areas of
the world, particularly in such countries as Pakistan, which
formerly depended on fuels from the now-closed refineries of
Kuwait. This is due in part to the fact that the U.S.
military is seeking additional jet and diesel fuels in the
Persian Gulf region. Also, some oil-producing countries are
beginning to stockpile some of the fuels their refineries
produce in case of eventual domestic needs.
   Overall, Saudi Arabia's reduction in product exports isn't
expected to have a big world-wide impact, however. Saudi oil
officials said that the cuts probably will be limited and
that crude-oil exports aren't affected.
   The kingdom's main petroleum exports are crude oil, not
fuels. Also, industry officials said that even though there
may be some dislocation of destinations for some Saudi
petroleum products, the overall volumes of fuels to be
processed remain the same.
   There were new indications, meanwhile, that Saudi Arabia's
total exports will be increased in the next few days in line
with its prior commitment to produce more to help offset the
losses to world markets of four million barrels a day of
Iraqi and Kuwaiti crudes.
   "What the markets may be ignoring is that the Saudis have
followed through" on their plan to sell more crude to their
customers, said Marshall Thomas, editor in chief of the Oil
Daily. Mr. Thomas, an oil-marketing expert, said that in the
past few days the Saudis have responded to customer requests
for more oil. "This oil can be available starting in four or
five days," he said.
   Hisham Nazer, the Saudi oil minister, officially confirmed
last Saturday that the kingdom would produce as much as two
million barrels a day more than its OPEC quota to help
stabilize oil markets. Such a step would be taken with or
without the approval of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, Mr. Nazer said.
   Venezuela also is understood to be increasing its
production now after waffling over whether it would act
without OPEC's approval in providing as much as a promised
500,000 barrels a day in additional oil to world supplies.
But both Venezuela and Saudi Arabia still hope for some
endorsement of their plans from others in OPEC.
   Yesterday, some OPEC sources suggested that the oil
ministers of at least six countries -- Saudi Arabia,
Venezuela, Algeria, Indonesia, Iran and Nigeria -- might meet
as soon as Sunday to consider the oil supply situation.
   Sadek Boussena, Algeria's oil minister and president of
OPEC, is understood to be sending letters to each of the
others suggesting the meeting. But late yesterday an official
of the Saudi petroleum ministry said such a letter hadn't yet
been received.
   In Caracas, Celestino Armas, Venezuela's oil minister,
told reporters that OPEC "will possibly hold a consultation
meeting" in Vienna on Sunday to discuss a temporary
re-distribution of oil quotas. He said such a meeting would
be attended by "all 13 members" but didn't clarify how
Kuwait, currently occupied by Iraq, would be represented.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Saddam Hussein:
   A Robin Hood Who
   Isn't Sharing Spoils
   ---
   Between Iraq and a Hard Place
   Trucker Shares His Pepsi
   But Requests `No Politic'
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   RUWEISHID, Jordan -- This bleak border post, at the edge
of no man's land between Jordan and Iraq, is an easy place to
meet the Arab Everyman in whose name Saddam Hussein wants to
wage holy war.
   Here, squatting in slivers of shade cast by desiccated
shrubs, or slumped in the back of battered sedans, are the
10,000 refugees fleeing each day from Iraq and "liberated"
Kuwait. (Iraq says it is holding hostage only those foreign
nationals in Iraq and Kuwait whose governments it considers
unfriendly; the rest may leave.)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But, not all the traffic across the Iraq-Jordan border is
in hungry and tired workers. While King Hussein has said
Jordan will comply with United Nations sanctions against
Iraq, trucks continue to rumble from Jordan to Baghdad, most
of them loaded with corn, rice and small manufactured goods.
Coming the other way is an Iraqi trucker named Nizar. He has
delivered a load of Jordanian apricots and is returning now
for more cargo.
   Offering a ride to a stranded American journalist, he says
in fractured English, "Very long drive. No politic. OK?"
   The drive to Amman is indeed long, on a bumpy, two-lane
road through a featureless plain of sand and black stone.
Nizar, who says not to use his "other name or I be in trouble
in Baghdad," passes the time like truckers the world over. He
twiddles the dial on a crackly radio, honks and waves at
truckers going the other way, and stops every 45 minutes to
check his tires and add water to an overheating radiator. The
dashboard of his truck is decorated with a broken compass, a
picture of an almond-eyed Arab beauty, and a verse praising
Allah.
   Breaking his own embargo on political chat, Nizar wonders
why America wants to stop trade to Iraq. From his wallet he
pulls well-fingered snapshots of his two little girls in
Baghdad. "You want them to be hungry?" he asks, kissing each
picture. When his passenger tries to explain the U.S.
position, Nizar shrugs.
   "Saddam wants Arab oil for all Arabs," he says, echoing a
common view among Iraqi supporters. "George Bush wants oil
for America. Why so greedy?"
   Nizar certainly isn't. He shares his sunflower seeds and
Pepsi, even offers his American visitor the cab to snooze in
while he lies in the shade outside to wait out the blistering
mid-afternoon heat. And letting his passenger out at sunset,
he offers a parting piece of advice. "Write in your
newspaper, Iraqi man like all other man. Only leaders want to
make war. OK?"
   Back in Amman, rumors are rife. In the Middle East, "hard
information" is often a contradiction in terms, but facts
have become unusually rubbery in the current, highly charged
atmosphere. Among the rumors circulating in Jordan this week:
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak is dead from an assassin's
bullet, Saddam Hussein is in hiding after a failed coup, the
Saudi royal family has fled to Tel Aviv.
   A simple question -- "Is there much food in Baghdad's
markets?" -- brings the following answers from recent
visitors to Iraq:
   Palestinian engineer: "Everything you can dream of, they
have."
   Egyptian laborer: "By God, the lines for bread are so long
that you cannot see the end]"
   Iraqi Embassy official: "Why do you ask? Are you hungry?"
   The situation -- judging from the comments of more neutral
observers -- is that Iraqis are suffering but far from
starving. There are severe shortages of rice and sugar, but
bread and most other foodstuffs appear no more scarce than in
recent months. However, there are clear signs of panic.
Refugees passing through Iraq tell of being mobbed by people
offering to buy food. Other travelers say they saw Iraqis
hoarding food and water in the backs of their cars.
   Abbas Zaidi, a Pakistani schoolteacher from Karachi, was
on a pilgrimage to Shiite Moslem shrines in southern Iraq
when the crisis erupted. He says the population seems muted
in its support of Saddam Hussein. "Many people told me they
are scared," he says. "They know they cannot win in a war
against America." He says several people asked him for help
in getting to Pakistan.
   Saddam Hussein has styled himself as an Arab Robin Hood,
but what is obvious in the dusty border crossing here is that
he has robbed from the rich without sharing with the poor.
   Iraq's Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz the other day remarked
that the U.S. should "listen to the voice of the Arab people.
There is a determined Arab nation wanting to live free."
   As he spoke, thousands more flooded across the border,
determined to live free in some other part of the Arab
nation. So many, in fact, that yesterday Jordan ordered its
border with Iraq closed temporarily to incoming refugees so
it could properly deal with the multitudes already here.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   U.S. Judge Is Convicted of Corruption
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt and Wayne E. Green
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   ZENL SFX
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
RAILROADS (RAI)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   U.S. District Court Judge Robert Aguilar of San Jose,
Calif., was convicted of two corruption charges, disclosing a
wiretap to an ex-mobster and lying to the FBI to obstruct a
grand jury probe.
   Unless he resigns, Judge Aguilar faces probable
impeachment and removal from office by Congress if either
count is upheld on appeal. He would be the fourth federal
judge forced from the bench in the last decade for alleged
criminal wrongdoing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The San Francisco jury acquitted the 59-year-old Judge
Aguilar on three other counts, including a charge that he
attempted to influence another Northern California federal
judge in the handling of a case. For each of his convictions,
he could be sentenced to five years in prison.
   His attorney, Paul Meltzer, of Santa Cruz, Calif., said he
believed an appeal was likely, but added, "I think that this
is probably the end of a long and distinguished career on the
bench." Mr. Meltzer asserted that the judge had been cleared
of the "core charges" against him. Judge Aguilar couldn't be
reached for comment.
   A Justice Department prosecutor on the case couldn't be
reached.
   The trial was the second for Judge Aguilar and involved
scaled-down allegations. In the first trial, prosecutors
accused the judge of using his office as a "racketeering
enterprise." Federal prosecutors dropped that charge after a
mistrial on that and six other charges in March. Judge
Aguilar had been the first federal judge ever charged with
violating the federal anti-racketeering statute. In the March
trial he was aquitted of an obstruction of justice count.
   Judge Aguilar was convicted of disclosing to ex-mobster
Abe Chapman that Mr. Chapman was the subject of a federal
wiretap, which Judge Aguilar had learned about from a fellow
judge. The judge denied intentionally tipping off Mr.
Chapman, who at the time was a relative by marriage.
   He was also convicted of attempting to obstruct a grand
jury investigation by lying to the FBI about his knowledge of
the wiretap and about his involvement in an attempt by former
Teamster leader Rudy Tham to overturn a 1980 embezzlement
conviction. Mr. Tham and Mr. Chapman were friends.
   Judge Aguilar was acquitted of conspiring to influence the
federal judge who was handling the Tham case, Stanley Weigel.
Judges Aguilar and Weigel testified that Judge Aguilar asked
Judge Weigel several times about the status of the case but
didn't attempt to influence its outcome.
   Judge Aguilar was appointed by President Carter in 1980.
His supporters have asserted that the government's case
against him was a Republican political vendetta in response
to decisions he made that were unfavorable to prosecutors.
   ---
   SEC CHARGES five lawyers with insider trading.
   The Securities and Exchange Commission charged five
members of a Michigan law firm with insider trading in the
stock of Zenith Laboratories Inc. in May 1988, shortly before
the company announced plans to seek federal bankruptcy
protection.
   The suit names Saul Bluestone, Joseph Bartnick, Albert
Lopatin, Sheldon Miller, and Norman Rosen, all partners in
the Detroit law firm of Lopatin, Miller, Freedman, Bluestone,
Ehrlich, Rosen &amp; Bartnick.
   The suit alleges that in May 1988, Mr. Bluestone learned,
by virtue of his position as a member of Zenith's board, that
the firm had authorized its president to file a bankruptcy
court petition. On the morning of May 2, the SEC said, Mr.
Bluestone called his bank, where his Zenith stock was pledged
as collateral for personal loans, and instructed his banker
to sell 50,000 shares of Zenith common stock for at least $2
a share.
   The complaint alleges that Mr. Bluestone passed on the
information about Zenith to Mr. Bartnick, and that either Mr.
Bluestone or Mr. Bartnick shared the information with Mr.
Lopatin, Mr. Rosen and Mr. Miller.
   As a result, Mr. Bartnick, Mr. Lopatin, Mr. Miller and Mr.
Rosen sold 22,500, 14,668, 16,000 and 6,000 Zenith shares,
respectively, at about $2 a share, the SEC alleges.
   On May 4, Zenith announced it was filing for bankruptcy
protection, the SEC said. The price of Zenith shares declined
to a close of $1.125 on that day.
   Without admitting or denying the charges, Mr. Bluestone,
Mr. Bartnick and Mr. Rosen consented to the entry of a final
judgment enjoining them from further violations of the
securities laws and ordering them to give back the losses
they allegedly avoided of $42,167, $17,796, and $4,617,
respectively.
   The order also directs the three to pay civil penalties
equal to the amount of the losses allegedly avoided, and
directed Mr. Bluestone and Mr. Bartnick to pay additional
penalties equal to the losses avoided by the individuals they
tipped off to Zenith's announcement.
   The SEC said litigation against Mr. Lopatin and Mr. Miller
is continuing. The commission said it is seeking injunctions
against the two, disgorgement of losses avoided of $11,563
and $10,753, and civil penalties.
   ---
   BATTLE IS BREWING over regulation of lawyers in Texas.
   The staff of a legislative advisory panel stirred a
controversy by making recommendations that could strip the
State Bar of Texas of its policing powers. Currently, Texas
is one of 34 states that authorize the bar to regulate the
legal profession -- by administering attorney discipline, for
example.
   But the staff of the Texas Sunset Advisory Commission is
proposing changes that would include the creation of an
independent state agency to police attorneys, leaving the bar
to operate more as a trade association. "Separating the
regulatory and association functions would provide an `arms
length' distance between the interests of the profession and
those of the state," a recent staff report said.
   Among the staff's other recommendations: Requiring public
disclosure of all final disciplinary actions against Texas
attorneys. Under current rules, many such actions are made
public, but confidential reprimands are permitted.
   The staff report was submitted to the full Sunset
Commission, a group of legislators and private citizens
charged with periodic reviews of various agencies. Last
Friday, the commission conducted public hearings on whether
the system of regulating Texas attorneys should be revamped.
Its final recommendations will be submitted to the Texas
Legislature, which will convene in regular session in
January.
   In a lengthy report submitted to the commission on Friday,
the State Bar of Texas challenged most the Sunset staff's
proposals. It argued, for example, that the recommendation
for an independent regulatory agency "is not supported by
fact or good policy."
   ---
   HOUSTON FIRM parcels $100 million contingency fee among
all employees.
   Vinson &amp; Elkins received the fee from a $350 million
settlement reached last April in litigation against Santa Fe
Pacific Corp. and its Santa Fe Railway unit. J. Evans
Attwell, managing partner of the Houston law firm, said the
money arrived Friday.
   Vinson &amp; Elkins's 201 partners got most of the $100
million, but bonuses also were paid to the remainder of its
1,600 workers. Mr. Attwell said the firm would "normally"
reward all employees in cases of this magnitude, although
"clearly a case of this magnitude doesn't come along with
great regularity." He declined to say how much each partner
or any employee received.
   Vinson &amp; Elkins had represented a group of companies that
sued Santa Fe and four other railroad companies in 1984,
charging them with illegally trying to block a coal slurry
pipeline the group wanted to build.
   The other four railroads previously had settled their part
of the case. Vinson &amp; Elkins's total contingency fees from
the litigation is believed to be a little less than $200
million.
   ---
   Wade Lambert contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Maynard Oil to Buy Interests
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MOIL ORX
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Maynard Oil Co. said it agreed to pay $13.7
million for Sun Operating Limited Partnership's interest in
five leases covering 860 surface acres of the Levelland Field
in Hockley County, Texas. Maynard estimated the acquisition
would add 525 net barrels to its daily production. Sun
Operating is managed by Oryx Energy Co. of Dallas, which, as
managing general partner, has a 98% ownership of the limited
partnership.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Live Entertainment Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   LVE WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   LIVE ENTERTAINMENT Inc. (Los Angeles) -- Michael J. White
was named to the new post of senior vice president and
general counsel of this diversified entertainment software
supplier, distributor and retailer. He had been vice
president, human resources and corporate counsel for Pace
Membership Warehouse.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.FJH SBRU
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd., the maker of
Subaru automobiles, said it received approval from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to seek a 100% stake in
its U.S. sales subsidiary, Subaru of America.
   A special shareholders meeting will be held Aug. 27 to
consider terms for the buy-out, a spokesman said. He added
that no final decision has been made on what price Fuji Heavy
Industries will offer for the shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fuji Heavy Industries, which currently owns 49.6% of
Subaru of America, is seeking to raise its share to 100% in
an effort to reorganize and upgrade the company's sales
effort in the U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Anheuser-Busch Cos.:
   Plan to Build Theme Park,
   Resort in Spain Is Shelved
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   BUD EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Anheuser-Busch Cos., a St. Louis-based brewer, confirmed
that in April, it put "on hold" its plan to build a $300
million theme park and resort in Spain, citing difficulties
with municipal officials in the region.
   Anheuser last year said it intended to build the park in
the Costa Brava region, on the Mediterranean Sea near
Barcelona. The 1,580-acre first phase was to include a golf
course, hotel, retail facilities, homes and condominiums, and
the theme park. In a possible second phase for expansion,
initially expected to be completed in 2000, Anheuser
tentatively planned to spend an additional $275 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the municipality with jurisdiction over the park
property separated in late 1989 into two cities, which then
voided previous pacts on taxes and services, according to
Anheuser. The company said that the situation hasn't been
resolved, and that it is investigating "other suitable
sites," should terms not be reached. A spokesman declined to
elaborate on potential sites.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Image Bank Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   TIBI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   IMAGE BANK Inc. (New York) -- John J. Quinn was named to
the board of this communications company, bringing membership
to nine. Mr. Quinn, 69 years old, and currently involved in
private business ventures, succeeds William A. Lupien, 48,
who resigned because of other commitments. Currently, Mr.
Lupien is chairman and chief executive officer of Mitchum,
Jones &amp; Templeton, a private investment firm, based in Los
Angeles.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dutch Industrial Output Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   AMSTERDAM -- Dutch industrial production in the first half
rose 4% from a year earlier, the Dutch Central Bureau of
Statistics said.
   In June, industrial output rose 1% from May and 5% from
the year-earlier month. The first-half rise was particularly
strong in the metal, paper and graphics industries, but the
housing and construction industries posted lower than average
growth rates of 1% each.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Silicon General Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SILN
</CO>
<LP>
   SILICON GENERAL Inc. (San Jose, Calif.) -- Paul Risinger,
director of advanced marketing and technology for this
electronics and telecommunications company, was named to the
newly created position of vice chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Yen's Rise Helps Economy
   In Japan, MITI Reports
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The benefits for Japan of increased imports since
the 1985 Plaza Accord have outweighed the drawbacks, the
Ministry of International Trade and Industry said.
   Since the Group of Seven industrialized nations agreed to
an appreciation of the yen against the dollar in September
1985, imports as a percentage of total Japanese goods have
risen 1.95%, to 8.58% in 1989, MITI said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MITI said rising imports have helped free up 310,000
workers for other jobs, alleviating Japan's labor shortage.
   With the latest job data showing 147 job offers for every
100 job seekers, the labor-saving impact of imports has
helped head off a sharp rise in wages which could have
threatened Japan's economic expansion, a MITI official said.
   The official said cheaper import prices also raised
Japanese consumers' purchasing power and allowed more capital
spending by Japanese corporations.
   Among the drawbacks, MITI said the rise in imports lowered
domestic production by 15 trillion yen ($102.2 billion) and
lowered gross national product by 6.4 trillion yen.
   MITI said although internationalization of the economy was
an overall benefit to Japan, factors such as rising oil
prices and a weak U.S. economy could slow the pace in coming
years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CAE Industries Unit's Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.CAE FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- CAE Industries Ltd. said its CAE Electronics
Ltd. subsidiary received a contract valued at about 31
million Canadian dollars (US$27.2 million) to supply flight
simulators for Boeing 737-300 and 757-200 aircraft to China's
Civil Aviation Administration. The simulators will be
delivered in the summer of 1992.
   CAE Industries manufactures aircraft simulator systems and
other electronic equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Acquisition of Philips Industries
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TOMKY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DAYTON, Ohio -- Philips Industries Inc. said shareholders
approved the previously announced acquisition of the company
by Tomkins PLC.
   In June, London-based Tomkins, which makes lawnmowers,
bicycles, handguns and other metal products, agreed to
acquire Philips for $550 million, or $18.50 a share. Philips
makes windows, bathtubs, air-moving equipment and other
residential, commercial and industrial items. Philips said
the acquisition was to be completed yesterday. Philips
expects payment for its surrendered shares to begin Sept. 6.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West German Auto Output
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- West Germany's auto production fell 1% in
July from a year earlier because of fewer workdays, according
to the West German Automobile Association.
   But adjusted for the calendar, production actually climbed
6% in July from the previous year, the association added.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A total of 295,400 cars were produced in July compared
with 297,165 the previous year. But there were only 15
working days in July this year, down from 16 in 1989. Most
West German auto factories close for a number of weeks in the
summer for vacations and plant maintenance.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Reuters Chief Sells Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   RTRSY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Reuters Holdings PLC said Glen Renfrew, managing
director and chief executive officer, sold 210,000 of the
company's shares, totaling 20% of his personal holding, for
#1.72 million ($3.29 million).
   The disposal represents a 0.05% stake in the international
news agency and leaves Mr. Renfrew with 849,378 Reuters
shares in his name.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A brief statement said Mr. Renfrew sold the stake in the
market at 820 pence ($15.67) a share to finance loan payments
and settle tax liabilities. Reuters declined to elaborate on
the sale.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bethlehem Steel Joint Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BS F.USS
</CO>
<LP>
   BETHLEHEM, Pa. -- Bethlehem Steel Corp. said it created a
joint venture with Paris-based Chavanne-Ketin, a subsidiary
of Usinor-Sacilor, the French steel company. Terms weren't
disclosed.
   The venture, named Centec, will produce and sell cast iron
rolls to North American metalworking customers. Bethlehem is
the nation's second largest steel concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A company source said it expects the venture will produce
annual revenue of $25 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   IPCO Vote Set on Renaming
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IHS
</CO>
<LP>
   HACKENSACK, N.J. -- IPCO Corp. said shareholders are to
vote in November on a board-approved proposal to change the
company's name to Sterling Optical Corp., reflecting the
completion of a divestiture program that stripped IPCO of all
but its primary business, a chain of optical stores.
   IPCO's last non-optical business, Whaledent International,
a dental products unit, was sold June 1 to Gurit-Heberlein
AG, a Swiss chemical and textile finishing company, for $32
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Xsirius Superconductivity Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   XSCIA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   XSIRIUS SUPERCONDUCTIVITY Inc. (Scottsdale, Ariz.) -- Alan
E. "Lanny" Ross, vice president and general manager of
Rockwell International Corp., was elected a director,
increasing the board to seven. The company is engaged in the
commercialization of high temperature superconductors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Electrolux to Idle
   10% of Its Staff;
   Earnings Plunge
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   ELUXY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Stung by a 56% plunge in second-quarter
pretax profit, AB Electrolux said it plans to lay off 10% of
its 150,000 employees world-wide by the end of next year
under a sweeping cost-cutting drive.
   The Swedish appliance concern said about 8,000 of the
15,000 job cuts would occur this year. Anders Scharp, chief
executive officer, said the biggest reduction would come in
the U.S. where market demand has softened so far this year
and isn't expected to recover for at least the next 18
months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Electrolux said it will sell certain "nonstrategic"
loss-making operations, which weren't identified, as well as
certain real estate assets in the U.S. and Western Europe to
finance the estimated 700 million Swedish kronor ($121.52
million) cost of the restructuring moves. Those sales
probably won't be completed until next year, company
officials said.
   Mr. Scharp remained guarded in his assessments of economic
prospects, especially in the U.S. where he said "there's
already a recession in our markets." And while he remained
confident that Electrolux would maintain its strong market
positions in both North America and Western Europe, he didn't
hold out prospects of rapid recovery for the company's
sagging profitability.
   "We don't anticipate any improvement in the economic
outlook through the end of next year. If anything things
could turn out worse than we're expecting, especially in
Sweden," he said.
   Electrolux said second-quarter pretax profit plunged to
500 million Swedish kronor from 1.12 billion kronor a year
earlier. Sales during the period declined 4% to 22.33 billion
kronor from 23.25 billion kronor the previous year.
   Company officials said the Industrial Products division
accounted for more than half the second-quarter profit drop.
Spiraling raw material costs and falling prices for finished
products slashed profit at the Graenges AB aluminum unit.
   Mr. Scharp declined to discuss which of the "nonstrategic
operations" Electrolux planned to put on the block. In recent
years, the company has expanded its outdoor-products division
through aggressive acquisitions. Besides Appliances, which
account for roughly 50% of sales, divisions for Commercial
Appliances and Commercial Services are also usually viewed as
core operations.
   Lennart Ribohn, chief financial officer, cites the case of
a U.S. dishwasher factory to illustrate the delays Electrolux
has encountered. The Swedish concern acquired a small
dishwasher plant as part of the 1986 purchase of White
Consolidated Industries Inc.; bought another U.S. dishwasher
company to further boost volume; and then prepared to shift
the combined operations to a new plant in North Carolina.
   But the plant construction project dropped behind
schedule, forcing Electrolux to continue parallel production
at the inefficient old plants. A new dishwasher model
redesigned according to specifications from a big buyer,
Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., still hasn't reached the market.
   Similar snags have occurred at almost all 15 major plant
overhauls Electrolux has undertaken, Mr. Ribohn said. "In
retrospect we obviously were too ambitious and tried to do
too much at once."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Call to Arms:
   Mobilizing Reserves
   Brings the Gulf Crisis
   Home to Americans
   ---
   Bush's Military Move, First
   Since 1968 Tet Offensive,
   Underscores U.S. Resolve
   ---
   Raising the Political Stakes
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   KENNEBUNKPORT, Maine -- If there was any doubt in the
minds of Americans or Iraqis, President Bush's mobilization
of military reserves ought to eliminate it: The U.S. is
prepared to fight, not just to posture, in the Persian Gulf.
   Mr. Bush's decision yesterday to activate thousands of
reservists has military importance, of course. The U.S., in
the post-Vietnam era, has structured its armed forces to rely
more than ever on citizen-soldiers, who perform some of the
more obscure but important technical tasks needed to give
support to large-scale fighting units.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the move is more important for the psychological
impact it is likely to have, particularly on the American
public. As doctors, lawyers and mechanics from towns and
cities across America vacate their jobs to go into active
service, Americans who may have been considering war in the
Middle East a hypothetical idea will get a clear message that
it is a real possibility -- and one that could affect them
directly.
   "The message in calling up the reserves is, `We're playing
for real,'" says pollster Peter Hart. "It's one thing when
isolated events are going on in another part of the world,
but this absolutely will bring it home much more."
   Adds retired Admiral Thomas Moorer, a former chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff: "It has an impact on the community
when people see that a fellow they know at the bank is no
longer there."
   And that raises the political stakes for Mr. Bush, who is
ordering the first activation of reservists in a military
crisis since the 1968 Tet offensive in Vietnam. (Reservists
and National Guardsmen also were called up to serve as postal
workers during a 1970 postal strike.) Mr. Bush is likely to
enjoy at least a brief, rally-around-the-flag surge of
support as he calls on American citizens to help protect
American interests in the Persian Gulf.
   The rise of patriotic sentiment may even help quell any
complaints about the Middle East mission in Congress, where,
after all, 13 members are themselves members of the reserves
or the National Guard. "It makes it much tougher to quibble
or natter at a president who shows his will and his
resources," says James Cannon, who was an aide in the Ford
White House and later a Senate staffer.
   But the political risks are enormous over the long haul.
If fighting breaks out and reservists become casualties, the
impact will hit even closer to home than if full-time
soldiers alone were involved.
   "I think the call-up further engenders support for the
president's actions," says retired Rear Admiral Gene La
Rocque, a former commander of the USS Saratoga. "But as soon
as the shooting starts, the bottom for the support is going
to fall out."
   The reserve mobilization may also send a chilling signal
that this will be no quick strike, as the U.S. has lately
conducted against Panama, Grenada and Libya. "It raises the
question if this might not be a long-term commitment," says
pollster Stanley Greenberg, "and there is no doubt that any
sign that this is going to be protracted will produce a lot
of anxiety."
   And even if the standoff with Iraq drags on without
fighting, "this goes from a positive to a negative," says
David Keene, a conservative political activist. "People will
want to bring (the reservists) home. And our coalition with
our allies will fall apart. People will want to know, why
aren't regulars from Europe there? Why these reservists?"
   The reserve activation came as President Bush appeared to
back down slightly on one front of his confrontation with
Iraqi ruler Saddam Hussein, which has been building since
Iraqi soldiers overran Kuwait Aug. 2. Mr. Bush told reporters
that he may be prepared to wait a few days before ordering
U.S. ships to stop more tankers and freighters carrying Iraqi
goods, giving the United Nations time to enact a resolution
explicitly authorizing military action to enforce the
international trade sanctions imposed on Iraq. The Soviet
Union is urging the U.S. to give the U.N. more time to
authorize a naval blockade, Mr. Bush implied.
   At the same time, Jordan's King Hussein announced that he
is heading to Iraq to attempt a peace-making diplomatic
mission. But American officials are growing increasingly
worried that a flashpoint in the tense standoff could be
reached on Friday, when Iraq has ordered foreign embassies in
occupied Kuwait to close down. The U.S. and other Western
nations intend to defy the order.
   The impact of the call-up will be greatly influenced by
how big it becomes. Neither President Bush nor Defense
Secretary Dick Cheney will say precisely how many reservists
will be activated, and other aides say the administration
will remain vague abut the numbers to give the president more
flexibility to call up even more people as time goes.
   But the administration insists the number of reservists
activated won't approach the 200,000 Mr. Bush is authorized
to activate for 180 days without congressional approval.
Initially, a call-up of 40,000 is more likely. The White
House says that those called will be people with specialized
skills needed in the massive movement of troops to Saudi
Arabia, such as food and water handlers, doctors and nurses,
construction specialists and cargo handlers.
   "Selected units will be called up as they are needed and
when they are needed," says Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
   For the time being, economists don't expect any
significant economic effect. Even if the president activated
100,000 reservists, "you're talking about less than one-tenth
of one percent of the labor force," says Lawrence Chimerine,
a fellow at the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington.
"There are others there to take their place."
   As the tension continues, Mr. Bush's decision to turn to
military reservists means he has decided to employ a military
tool that recent presidents have been reluctant to use.
Politicians like to keep the pain of war as far removed from
the general populace as possible, so the reserves often have
been kept at arm's length.
   In Vietnam, for instance, rather than call on reservists,
the Pentagon used draftees to fill out empty units even
though those specialties already existed in the guard and the
reserves.
   In fact, in recent decades the reserves have been called
on more often to intervene in American domestic disputes than
foreign hostilities. President Kennedy called on the reserves
and National Guard three times to quell civil-rights
tensions, in addition to activating them during the Berlin
Wall and Cuban missile crises. And President Johnson used
reservists once during civil-rights disturbances.
   A small National Guard unit from Missouri consisting of
about 40 soldiers was undergoing routine training during the
invasion of Panama and was pressed into service there --
guarding a prisoner of war compound. But in general, the last
time the country relied heavily on the reserves in a conflict
was when President Truman called up hundreds of thousands
during the Korean War.
   Today, because of changes in the American military
structure, it would be nearly impossible to maintain the kind
of big and far-flung military operation the U.S. is mounting
in the Persian Gulf without some help from the reserves.
   After the abolition of the draft in 1973, the Pentagon
switched to what it calls a "Total Force Policy" that relies
more on part-time soldiers. Under this system, many support
jobs essential in wartime were turned over in large part to
the reserves.
   In endorsing this policy in the 1970s, Congress had
politics as well as military efficiency in mind. Lawmakers
figured that if a president were forced in a time of
hostilities to turn quickly to the use of reserves, he would
have to find out early whether a conflict had widespread
popular support. Use of reservists and National Guardsmen,
lawmakers calculated, would reduce the chances of another
Vietnam War.
   So now, 98% of the army's lawyers are reservists. Some of
them may be called on to handle the legal technicalities of
calling on other reservists. Adm. Moorer says Pentagon
acquaintances have told him that "they've called in
reservists to work on procedures to call up other
reservists."
   In addition, 87% of the army's psychological-warfare
specialists and many of its hospital units are in the
reserves. And, particularly important in a showdown with Iraq
and its chemical-weapons capability, 66% of the army's
chemical-warfare and related specialists are in the reserves.
   And some military specialists think that the Pentagon may
also need technicians who work with weapons. On aircraft
carriers, for instance, pilots make practice runs using live
ammunition only once a year, Adm. Moorer says. In actual
conflict those pilots might make two bombing runs a day,
vastly increasing the need for support people to handle bombs
and fuzes. In the U.S., reservists can replace weapons
specialists stationed here to free them to go oversees, or
the reservists might be sent directly to the Persian Gulf.
   For now, the administration officials insist that they
haven't decided specifically which of these kinds of
specialists will be called upon, or which proportion will
fill in at U.S. bases as opposed to going overseas. Mr.
Cheney says that he will get recommendations today from the
military services on how many and what kind of reservists
they want to call.
   Administration aides say the call-up is likely to involve
almost entirely the military reserves, though they also say
that some National Guard troops could be called in to fill
holes. In fact, some Air National Guard planes and crews
already have been up in the air to help in the airlift to
Saudi Arabia, having volunteered with their governors'
permission to fly cargo and supplying in-flight refueling for
regular forces heading for Saudi Arabia.
   Whatever the precise size of the call-up, it seems likely
to reach only a small fraction of America's enormous reserve
forces. The overall "Ready Reserve" totals some 580,000
troops -- 310,000 Army reservists, 81,000 Air Force, 147,000
Navy and 44,000 Marines.
   The Army National Guard has another 550,000 soldiers, and
the Air National Guard 112,000.
   It's always been particularly dicey to commit Guard units
to combat. Units tend to be filled with young men and women
from the same communities. If one of these units were wiped
out, an entire community would suffer. Besides, though
guardsmen vehemently disagree, Pentagon professionals often
consider Guard units to be less primed than regular units.
   For now, Americans clearly support the turn to the
reservists. In this week's Wall Street Journal/NBC News news
poll, 79% of the public backed calling up National Guard
reserves and only 17% opposed it. This support was pervasive
across all regional, political and generational lines. For
example, voters between the ages of 18 and 34 -- those most
affected by a call-up -- supported calling up reserves by a
76%-to-21% margin.
   And there was immediate congressional support as well.
"This is a very capable force and should be used in the
emergency in the Middle East," said Rep. G.V. (Sonny)
Montgomery, a Mississippi Democrat who is a senior member of
the House Armed Services Committee and a retired major
general in the National Guard. Rep. Montgomery, a close
friend of President Bush, wrote to the president last week to
urge the action.
   "Congress has been pushing for a number of years to
build-up the National Guard and Reserve," Rep. Montgomery
said in a statement. "We have given them first-line equipment
and training. They are ready to respond to this challenge."
   Those sentiments were echoed by another influential
Democrat, Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Sam Nunn
of Georgia. He was the principal author of the 1976 law that
allows the president to call up reservists.
   "My intent was to deal with the type of situation we have
in the Persian Gulf, where reservists are needed for a
limited period and can be activated without a formal
declaration of war or national emergency," Sen. Nunn said in
a statement.
   Because of the political risks involved, White House aides
don't want the reserve call-up to grow too large. They've
played down suggestions from Pentagon officials that the
call-up may approach the 200,000 allowed under the law. White
House chief of staff John Sununu has pointedly said that the
call-up would be "surgical" and "fine-tuned."
   But psychologically, the call-up is likely to have an
impact on Main Street whatever its precise size -- and that
may actually suit the administration's purposes. "In the
short term calling up the reserves underscores the
seriousness of the crisis," says Mr. Keene, the Republican
conservative activist. "And I presume this is what Bush is
trying to do."
   ---
   Bob Davis, James M. Perry and Rodney Ferguson contributed
to this article.
   ---
                         On Alert
                                                                                                       

   Here is a list of the 10 previous times U.S. military
reserves have been called to active duty since World War II.
                                                                                                       

   July 1950 to July 1953, President Hary Truman called up
938,379 during the Korean War.
                                                                                                       

   September 1957 to May 1958, President Dwight D. Eisenhower
called up 8,873 to Little Rock, Ark., during school
integration disturbances.
                                                                                                       

   August 1961 to August 1963, President John F. Kenedy
called up 155,800 after the erection of the Berlin Wall.
                                                                                                       

   September 1962 to October 1962, Kenedy called up 10,927 to
Oxford, Miss., to escort Jamed H. Meredith during
registration at the University of Mississippi.
                                                                                                       

   October 1962 to November 1962, Kenedy called up 14,200
during the Cuban Missile crisis.
                                                                                                       

   June 1963 to July 1963, Kenedy called up 16,463 to
Tuscaloosa, Ala., during civil rights disturbances.
                                                                                                       

   September 10-14, 1963, Kenedy called up the Alabama Army
National Guard and Air National Guard during Alabama public
school integration disturbances. All the reservists were kept
in their armories throughout the four days.
                                                                                                       

   March 20-29, 1965, President Lyndon B. Johnson called up
4,000 to Selma, Ala., during arrests of Rev. Martin Luther
King Jr. and other blacks protesting voter-registration
rules.
                                                                                                       

   January 1968 to December 1969, Johnson called up 35,280
following the Tet offensive in Vietnam and North Korean
seizure of the U.S. surveillance ship Pueblo.
                                                                                                       

   March 1970 to April 1970, President Richard M. Nixon
called up 26,273 during the postal strike.
                                                                                                       

   Source: Associated Press.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   3Com Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   COMS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   3COM Corp. (Santa Clara, Calif.) -- Eric Benhamou,
34-year-old president of this data networking concern, was
named to the additional post of chief executive officer,
effective Sept. 20, succeding Bill Krause, who will remain
chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   New Chic and Old Rites in Remotest Spain
   ----
   By Nicholas King
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Merida, Spain -- The storks didn't nest this year in their
thicket of twigs on the bell tower of the chapel of the
Brothers of Jesus. It was just as well. The chapel, together
with the rest of the old monastery that has become the
luxurious parador of Merida, seemed to be in a state of
continuous uproar.
   They said it was the opening of the bull ring that kept
the bar and dining room turgid with laughter and cigar smoke
until far into the night. And the once trickling tourist
trade now is in full spate here in the heart of Extremadura,
once -- and officially still -- the remotest province of
Spain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Merida became a piece of the Roman Empire's Spanish legacy
when Hadrian, himself a Spaniard, bestowed land grants on the
veterans of his legions. It has a big Roman bridge and a
theater and arena, all in usable condition.
   After the Romans left and the Moors were driven out,
Extremadura retired to the state of a poor and backward
province of thin harvests and granite badlands. Its young men
shook the dust from their feet to seek their fortunes far
afield, and those young men included, in the 16th century,
Cortez and Pizarro the great conquistadors, and hundreds of
their best and toughest followers.
   The treasure they won enriched the monasteries and
aggrandized the little towns they left behind. So that today,
above the plains of warm winter pasture patterned with cork
oak rise their churches and citadels, like old, dark mirrors
that once reflected the gold of Mexico and Peru.
   Caceres, Trujillo, Plasencia, Medellin, Guadalupe -- that
Guadalupe of the black Virgin who became the patroness of the
New World -- their pale stones are the half-forgotten
remnants of a lonely, almost ghostly society harder than that
in any other part of Spain. It certainly seems far more
primitive and primeval than the sophisticated, graceful land
of Moorish Andalusia just to the south, which preceded it in
history by many centuries.
   The roads of Extremadura are still fairly empty, but the
irrigation of the Guadiana river basin around Merida is a
sign that this region is being touched by the sudden
prosperity of the rest of Spain.
   Because it has been remote for so long, Extremadura is one
of the last refuges of many forms of wildlife, such as the
Spanish wolf and the imperial eagle. It goes without saying
that, being a refuge, it is threatened from the outside, by
agricultural and commercial pressures.
   Development devours. But tourism devours too, and long
before these cities and their landscapes over-proliferate or
are plowed under, they may damage themselves irremediably by
becoming self-conscious and self-exploiting for the benefit
of the world's curiosity seekers.
   And so this parador, which years ago had reflected its
origins by imparting to the traveler a patio-shadowed
tranquillity, now bustles with clamorous middle-class chic.
You must go down to the town square, chilled by the heavy
rain but fragrant with orange blossoms, to Merida's other
hotel, the Emperatriz, if you want the un-self-conscious.
   There you can see long tables set in rows in the great
central courtyard, tiled in blue lined with pots of
aspidistra. Eighty guests at least are expected to celebrate
the baptism of three infant cousins just performed in the
adjoining well-worn church of Santa Maria Mayor.
   The fine-feathered relations flutter through the courtyard
and begin to tussle over the favored seats, stopping
frequently to exchange greetings and to sip drinks. It will
be a while yet before the meal begins.
   Some children in their Sunday clothes crawl over a
somnolent old man leaning on his gold-headed stick, his
pearl-gray homburg on the table beside him. Across the room,
two matrons stylish in black lace chew the cherries in their
mahogany-colored cocktails. Here is the re-enactment of an
old rite, authentic, deliberate and recognizable, even to a
tourist.
   No one at the hotel desk admits to knowing why the hotel
is called Emperatriz, or Empress. We conclude that it must be
after the Empress Eugenie, glamorous wife of Napoleon III,
who came from Montijo, a small town 25 miles due west of
Merida, on the way to the Portuguese frontier.
   ---
   Mr. King is director of the Foreign Press Center in New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hello, Columbus:
   Trendies Discover
   Unlikely New World
   ---
   Ohio City Attracts Musicians,
   Artists and Even Liberals;
   Next Challenge: Foie Gras
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Where can you find a large bowling
league for homosexuals, the first Henri Bendel's store
outside of Manhattan and the kind of avant-garde art that
would pique Jesse Helms's interest?
   San Francisco? Key West?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nope. Here, in Columbus.
   Columbus, Ohio.
   No kidding.
   To many Americans, Columbus is Blandsville, U.S.A., a town
of cornfields, cheerleaders and Rotary Club dinners. And it's
true that, for decades, Columbus was a city young Buckeyes
passed through before leaving the state, a town of
steakhouses, drive-ins and roller rinks. Downtown was dead.
The old airport terminal looked more like a bus station.
   And while Memphis had Elvis and Hoboken had Sinatra,
Columbus had Woody Hayes, Ohio State University's gruff
football coaching legend, who symbolized the city's earthy
image. Anne Hayes, his 76-year-old widow, recalls that one
night Woody was planning to wine and dine her, but they ended
up at his office watching game film of Michigan State. "Woody
said that was a pretty good evening -- and damn cheap, too,"
she says.
   But now, Columbus is an anomaly in the middle of the Rust
Belt, a booming center of banking, insurance and other
service industries. Ohio's largest city for almost a decade,
with a population of 615,000 now, Columbus continues to be
one of the few growing metropolitan areas in a slow-growth
region. Want-ads fill almost 30 pages in the local
newspapers. Companies like Limited Inc., Banc One Corp.,
Worthington Industries Inc. and Wendy's International Inc.
have brought buckets of money to Columbus.
   With the prosperity has come vitality and diversity. As
Columbus became a white-collar growth city in the 1970s and
'80s, young professionals poured into town, bringing with
them their Madison Avenue fashions and liberal politics. Now
the city has become a magnet for artists, actors, musicians
and bohemians.
   In many ways, the city was a logical beachhead for the new
wave. The huge state university and the state capitol have
always brought in people more tolerant to nonconformists and
alternative life styles. Generous benefactors have helped,
too: Leslie Wexner, the owner of Limited, donated $25 million
for a sprawling, $43 million center for modern art that
opened last year on the Ohio State campus.
   But Columbus's attraction also happened partly by default.
Most of the other major cities anywhere near Columbus are
older and more staid. Many people find Columbus more
adventuresome and tolerant than, say, nearby Cincinnati,
where the Robert Mapplethorpe exhibit caused such a furor.
   Columbus will never be confused with Greenwich Village,
but the newcomers are changing the face of the city.
Restaurants for homosexuals sit cheek-by-jowl with
century-old white stone buildings housing old-line Columbus
law firms. Ritzy Gucci and middlebrow Lazarus Department
Store occupy the same shopping mall. At Mr. Wexner's posh
Henri Bendel's store downtown, a slender mannequin, wearing
an $8,800 black-beaded dress, sits on a velvet piano seat,
red rose at her side.
   Transplanted artists spend their evenings dancing to
Stravinsky beneath a hovering stained glass image of Jesus at
a local church -- "a warm, wonderful feeling," says Victoria
Uris, a former New York choreographer who moved to Columbus
to "create my own scene."
   She was among numerous volunteers who recently ripped 10
rows of pews out of the Third Avenue Community Church and
replaced them with a performing arts stage. It's easy to
experiment in Columbus, says Ms. Uris, because the arts
community is so new.
   The heartbeat of Columbus's hip subculture is a renovated
district on High Street called the Short North. Ten years
ago, it was a combat zone, with condemned buildings, drunks
living in doorways, a brisk drug trade and rampant
prostitution. Now, it's chock-a-block with art galleries,
funky specialty shops, street performers and a huge orange
phallic symbol attached to the front of a bar.
   On the side of an old warehouse lies Mona Lisa, painted
sideways. Inside, the Reality Theater Company presents plays
on nuclear war, street life and rape. Down the street is the
Ohio Ethnographic Gallery, featuring devil masks from Haiti
and Mexico.
   For radical chic, there's the Mothra Wrapped in Black
shop, named after the monster from 1960s Japanese movies. On
walls and racks hang jeans with silkscreen skulls and
daggers, spiked wrist bands and homemade drop-crotch pants,
favored by rappers. "If you can get it in the shopping mall,
you can't get it here," says the proud owner, Harold Davis.
   For seven years, zanies have come out in force each Fourth
of July, when the Short North holds its Doo-Dah parade. The
grand poo-bah of the Doo-Dah is Douglas P. Ritchey, a custom
jewelry merchant. For last year's parade, which drew tens of
thousands, he anointed himself Son of Purgatory -- a gibe at
the city's more sober Son of Heaven Chinese artifacts
exhibit. And on Halloween, there's the Short North costume
contest, with prizes for "Most Naked but Legal" and "Best Use
of Skin."
   "People here are starting to loosen up and realize there's
more to the world than white bread and paintings that match
the couch," Mr. Ritchey says.
   That includes a new openness to the gay community, which
claims to have the largest bowling league in the country --
almost 400 members -- along with a softball team that
challenged the police department to a game this summer.
Scheduling conflicts postponed it until next summer.
   "We even have lesbian Republicans," says Rhonda R. Rivera,
law professor at Ohio State University.
   Things aren't perfect in Columbus, of course. Columbus is
the bank-robbery capital of the Midwest; the metropolitan
region has had about 90 holdups this year. Even Chicago has
only had 32.
   And some longtime residents aren't thrilled with the new
beat in what's long been a serene, slow-paced city, where
polo and boating are favored pastimes and "equestrian
communities" accommodate homeowners and their horses.
   Marilyn Harris, sitting in the City Center shopping mall,
is unimpressed with the perfectly groomed sales clerks who
work in exclusive stores like Gucci, Ralph Lauren Polo and
Henri Bendel's. Instead, Mrs. Harris, who says that she's in
her 60s, fondly recalls Charles Lazarus and his family, who
ran the Lazarus stores until the early 1980s. "Mrs. Charles
Lazarus," she says, "used to work in the garden and get dirt
under her fingernails."
   For their part, newcomers have been frustrated that some
people are still guarded about avant-garde ideas. Kent Rigsby
hoped to bring culinary influences from France and Italy to
Columbus when he opened Rigsby's Cuisine Volatile four years
ago. He put the kitchen in the dining room. He served salmon
very rare. And he offered expensive delicacies like foie
gras. "I thought I could make a unique statement in
Columbus," he says.
   The restaurant has proved popular, but Mr. Rigsby has
suffered his disappointments. Diners send back the salmon,
complaining that it's raw. "I'm hesitant about even putting
steaks on the menu because it pains me to cook them
medium-well to well-done," he says. And foie gras? "We
couldn't sell it to save our lives," he says.
   Upscale merchants say that budget-conscious shoppers are
mystified at the high price of status. The City Center's
Milano Fur &amp; Leather, a specialty import store, had to send
back $700 possum-lined jackets because "people didn't
understand them," says Rita Williams, the store manager.
   "Here, people want the better shopping, yet they don't
want to pay for it," says the manager of Cashmeres of
Scotland, Debi Boggs. So she pushes the $350 crew-neck and
V-neck classics instead of the high-fashion $1,000 jackets.
   But as Columbus grows, even the most eccentric residents
will find kindred spirits. Steven Stulholzer, a restaurant
manager, founded the Pagan Community Council of Central Ohio
this year. A public ritual is planned on Samhain -- that's
Halloween for non-pagans -- and Mr. Stulholzer figures about
60 followers will attend.
   "The pagan community," he says, "is slowly coming out."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Harsco Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   HSC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   HARSCO Corp. (Harrisburg, Pa.) -- Nick H. Prater, 61 years
old, was elected a director of this defense and industrial
products company. Mr. Prater is president and chief executive
officer of Mobay Corp., a division of Bayer U.S.A. Inc. He
succeeds Robert K. Campbell, former chairman and chief
executive officer of Pennsylvania Power &amp; Light Co., who died
in June. Harsco's board membership will remain at 10.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Toys `R' Us Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   TOY WNEWS CRC
</CO>
<LP>
   TOYS "R" US Inc. (Paramus, N.J.) -- Larry Bouts,
previously chief financial officer of the international snack
food division of the PepsiCo Foods International unit of
PepsiCo Inc., was named president of the Toys "R" Us
International unit of this toy retailer, effective Sept. 2,
succeeding Joseph Baczko, who resigned to pursue other
personal and business interests, but will continue in an
advisory capacity until year end.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Contracts on Soviet Ruble
   Planned by Chicago Merc
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES (SCR)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The Chicago Mercantile Exchange said it intends
at some point to trade futures and futures options contracts
on the Soviet ruble.
   The futures exchange said such contracts couldn't begin
trading until the Soviet Union's currency was freely
convertible on world currency markets. The Merc didn't say
when it believes convertibility would be achieved and a
sufficient cash market developed to support futures trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new futures contracts also would require approval by
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   The `Somewhat' Enigmatic Mr. Souter
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   Gary L. McDowell's "Senate Should Put Souter to
Scholarship Test" (editorial page, Aug. 1) hits the mark on
two counts but is dead wrong on another. It's true that close
scrutiny of the nominee is appropriate and that a myopic
focus on abortion ultimately would disserve the Senate's
constitutional role of advice and consent. But the notion
that Judge David H. Souter should now face a battery of exam
questions on jurisprudence and constitutional theory is a
howler. Exam week is over; it's time to stop complaining and
read what Judge Souter has already written.
   Articles like Mr. McDowell's have repeated the claim that
Judge Souter has written "nary a word on the law" so
frequently I'm almost ready to believe it. But that would
mean ignoring the opinions published by Judge Souter during
his years on the bench. Every law student, at Harvard or
elsewhere, knows judicial opinions are primary authority.
Academic writings are merely secondary authority without
precedential weight. Also, contrary to the many articles,
there is a record, a fat one. Mastering it would require a
critical reading of Judge Souter's opinions, the statutes and
precedents on which they are based and, of somewhat lesser
importance, the briefs presented to the court. That's a lot
of homework, but an appropriate task (though less fun than
devising exam questions) for scholars who would offer
judgments on Judge Souter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bernard J. Cassidy
   San Francisco
   ---
   Mr. McDowell engages in wishful thinking if he believes
senators can act like law professors instead of politicians
in considering Judge Souter's qualifications. You can be sure
he'll be questioned on the right of privacy under the
Constitution, but it is hard to imagine one or more senators
resisting the urge to nail the abstract question of the right
of privacy to his specific views on abortion.
   As to Mr. McDowell's concern about there being enough
evidence of Judge Souter being a scholar, anyone who lives
alone in a house full of books, who graduated from Harvard
College and Harvard Law School and who also was a Rhodes
scholar at Oxford is certainly no dummy.
   Ward R. Jones
   Houston
   ---
   Mr. McDowell makes some thoughtful points. Why, then, does
he choose to debase his own work with such a cheap-shot
introduction? What purpose does it serve the public debate to
compare Judge Souter with Chance, the simple-minded main
character in the book "Being There," other than to give Mr.
McDowell an opportunity to make a snide joke at the judge's
expense? Besides, Judge Souter can't be as much of an enigma
as Mr. McDowell thinks. He was confirmed by the Senate to the
appellate court within the past year. Are we to assume,
therefore, that senators "limply accepted" him without any
inquiries the first time or that their memories aren't what
they used to be?
   Ralph M. Segall
   Chicago
   ---
   Mr. McDowell began with a flourish but was a
disappointment in the end. I agree with him that the Senate
should resolve to know Judge Souter, "to know what he thinks,
to understand his conceptions of the law and judicial power."
Of course we should examine his "scholarly credentials in a
scholarly way." But I disagree that abortion must be left out
of the issue.
   The abortion debate is more than a fleeting passion; many
people believe the abortion issue lies at the heart of
personal freedom. How dare Mr. McDowell suggest the Senate
ignore "the abortion mire" (as he calls it), and move on to
more "permanent concerns that will confront the Supreme Court
as it lopes into the next century." Abortion is as permanent
as you can get, Mr. McDowell. For many women, the abortion
option will represent the most important decision of their
lives.
   Donna Clark
   Sacramento, Calif.
   ---
   Among the prerequisites for a Supreme Court nominee being
newly created for Judge Souter, Mr. McDowell's notion that he
must be "a scholar worthy of the Supreme Court" is Orwellian
newspeak. What was the scholarship of Earl Warren or of the
recently canonized William J. Brennan? While piously
disclaiming any idea of a messy confirmation scene over Judge
Souter's views on abortion, Mr. McDowell wants an inquiry
into his views on the "right to privacy" doctrine on which
the Roe v. Wade abortion decision was based. If ever there
was a distinction without a difference, this is it. Mr.
McDowell's injunction to the Senate to "examine this man's
scholarly credentials in a scholarly way" is either the
height of naivete or the depths of cynicism. What makes Joe
Biden, Ted Kennedy and Co. scholars?
   Mr. McDowell's dutiful repetition of the liberal buzzword
"enigmatic" for Judge Souter gives the game away. How can a
man with a record going back over years of judicial decisions
be "enigmatic" -- with respect to his judicial
qualifications? Only his political views are unknown. Is all
this fancy talk just another way of saying that Supreme Court
nominees are to be subjected to a political litmus test -- or
that politics is or should be the basis for Supreme Court
decisions?
   Political ideology is not judicial destiny. Oliver Wendell
Holmes was as strong a believer in laissez-faire capitalism
and social Darwinism as ever sat on the Supreme Court. Yet he
became a hero to liberals and even radicals by opposing
judicial attempts to strike down welfare-state legislation as
unconstitutional. "The 14th Amendment does not enact Mr.
Herbert Spencer's Social Statics," he said. Neither should
the Constitution be prostituted to enact anybody's ideology
today -- nor the Senate confirmation process be used to
encourage such political prostitution.
   Thomas Sowell
   Senior Fellow
   Hoover Institution
   Stanford, Calif.
   ---
   If this and future Senate Judiciary committees set strict
standards for judicial scholarship for the Supreme Court,
will this mean that our country will never again benefit from
the earthy wisdom of such as Hugo Black, Fred Vinson, Abe
Fortas and Thurgood Marshall?
   Second, since I know little of scholars, is a "visiting
scholar at Harvard Law School" (Mr. McDowell's title)
equivalent to a Rhodes scholarship and a Harvard law degree
(Judge Souter's credits)?
   Third, is it possible that the visiting Mr. McDowell is
from another planet? Otherwise, he would be well aware of the
near unanimous agreement by liberals and conservatives alike
that, after the gang job on Robert Bork, it will be a long
time before another widely known, well-documented judicial
scholar consents to such an inquisition.
   Richard W. Richards
   Mechanicsburg, Pa.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   K mart Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   KM WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   K MART Corp. (Troy, Mich.) -- Lilyan H. Affinito, vice
chairman of Maxxam Group Inc., and Joseph A. Califano Jr., a
senior partner at the law firm of Dewey Ballantine and a
former secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, were named
directors of this retailing concern, increasing board
membership to 14.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   ADVN RD SC J.KOB EUROP J.KWH J.RNW T.TD
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   New York City Transit Authority -- $205.8 million of
transit facilities revenue bonds, Series 1990, Livingston
Plaza Project, due Jan 1, 1993-2004, 2020 and 2021, with
capital appreciation bonds due 2005-2010, priced by a Smith
Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. group to yield from 6.40% in 1993
to 7.58% in 2020. Current interest serial bonds are priced at
par to yield from 6.40% in 1993 to 7.35% in 2004. There are
$113.5 million of 7.50% term bonds priced at 99 to yield
7.58% in 2020 and $15.3 million of 6% term bonds priced at
81.83 to yield 7.53% in 2021. Capital appreciation bonds are
priced to yield from 7.40% in 2005 and 2006 to 7.50% in 2009
and 2010. The bonds are insured and triple-A-rated.
   Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority -- $85.8
million of certificates of participation, 1990 Series A, due
Aug. 1, 1991-2000, 2005 and 2015, tentatively priced by a
Lehman Brothers group to yield from 6.25% in 1992 to 7.50% in
2005. Current interest serial bonds are priced at par to
yield from 6.25% in 1992 to 7.10% in 2000. Bonds due in 1991
are not formally reoffered. There is $14.9 million of 7.50%
term bonds priced at par. Term bonds due in 2015 are not
formally reoffered. The bonds are insured and triple-A-rated.
   New York State Dormitory Authority -- $50.4 million of New
York State Department of Health refunding revenue bonds, 1990
Issue, due July 1, 1992-2001, priced by a Morgan Stanley &amp;
Co. group to yield from 6.40% in 1992 to 7.50% in 2001. There
are no term bonds. The bonds are rated
single-A/triple-B-plus.
                                                                                                       

                       ASSET-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   Colonial Credit Card Trust 1990A -- $215 million of
floating-rate securities backed by Visa and MasterCard
receivables offered at 42 basis points over the one-month
London interbank offered rate via First Boston Corp. The
securities have an expected final maturity of April 16, 1995,
a legal final maturity of Oct. 15, 1996, and a 4.3-year
average life at a 15.72% payment rate on the underlying
loans. Interest will be reset monthly, with an 11.5% rate
cap. The securities have a subordinated class that now totals
14% of the senior securities. The first principal payment
will be Oct. 17, 1994. There is a principal revolving period
that ends Aug. 31, 1994. Monthly interest payments begin Oct.
15. Colonial National Bank USA, the seller, servicer and
originator of the underlying credit card loans, is a unit of
Advanta Corp.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Shell Australia Ltd. (Anglo-Dutch parent) -- 100 million
Australian dollars of 14 1/2% Eurobonds due Sept. 27, 1993,
priced at 101.80 to yield 14.36% less fees via Hambros Bank
Ltd. Fees 1 1/2.
   Kobe Steel Ltd. (Japan) -- $340 million of Eurobonds due
Sept. 7, 1994, with equity-purchase warrants, with a fixed 4
7/8% coupon at par, via Yamaichi International Ltd. Each
$10,000 bond has two warrants, exercisable from Sept. 28,
1990, through Aug. 31, 1994, to buy shares at an expected
premium of 2 1/2% to the closing price when terms are fixed
Wednesday. Fees 2 1/4.
   Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. (Japan) -- $340 million of
Eurobonds due Sept. 13, 1994, with equity-purchase warrants,
with the coupon fixed at 4 7/8% at par, via Yamaichi
International Ltd. Each $10,000 bond carries two warrants,
exercisable from Oct. 2, 1990, through Aug. 31, 1994, to buy
shares at expected premium of 2 1/2% to the closing price
when terms are fixed Tuesday. Fees 2 1/4.
   Renown Inc. (Japan ) -- $160 million of Eurobonds due
Sept. 6, 1994, with equity-purchase warrants, with coupon
fixed at 4 7/8% at par via Daiwa Europe Ltd. Each $5,000 bond
carries one warrant, exercisable from Sept. 20, 1990, through
Aug. 23, 1994, to buy shares at an expected premium of 2 1/2%
to the closing price when terms are fixed Tuesday. Fees 2
1/4.
   Yuasa Shoji Ltd. (Japan) -- $100 million of Eurobonds due
Sept. 13, 1994, with equity-purchase warrants, with a coupon
fixed at 4 7/8% at par, via Nomura Securities Ltd. Guaranteed
by Sumitomo Bank Ltd. Each $5,000 bond carries one warrant,
exercisable from Sept. 27, 1990, through Sept. 2, 1994, to
buy shares at an expected premium of 2 1/2% to the closing
price when terms are fixed next Thursday. Fees 2 1/4.
   Toronto Dominion Bank, Cayman Island branch (Canadian
parent) -- Five billion yen of 8 1/2% Eurobonds due Sept. 6,
1991, priced at 101 1/8 via New Japan Securities Ltd.
Redemption is linked to the Nikkei Stock Index. Fees 1 1/8.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   When Credentials
   Are Not Enough
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Terry Eastland's otherwise excellent article, "Heed
Reagan's Errors in Filling Brennan's Seat" (editorial page,
July 23), contains a serious inaccuracy. Mr. Eastland writes
that the vicious campaign against Judge Robert Bork was "the
first of its kind ever against a Supreme Court nominee." Not
so.
   In 1930, when President Hoover nominated Charles Evans
Hughes to succeed Chief Justice William Howard Taft, Hughes
became the target of a scurrilous attack almost as bad as
that directed at Mr. Bork. He was falsely depicted as a "tool
of Wall Street" and, as with Mr. Bork, was vilified by
distortions of his record and by outright lies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hughes was the greatest lawyer of his time and the most
highly qualified person ever considered for judicial office
in the U.S. He had served as governor of New York, associate
justice of the Supreme Court and secretary of state. In 1916,
he was almost elected president in a cliffhanger contest with
Woodrow Wilson.
   Incredible as it may now seem, 26 senators voted to reject
the nomination of this superbly qualified jurist. There were
15 Democrats and 11 "progressive" Republicans (the kind who
today are known as "moderates") in this group. It is said
that in later years some of these senators privately
apologized to Chief Justice Hughes for their shameful
behavior.
   Edward F. Cummerford
   Sun City, Ariz.
   ---
   Mr. Eastland's suggestion that an affirmative-action
selection for a justice would be a bad idea was demeaning and
in poor taste. How would this be bad? It is ironic and
disturbing that Mr. Eastland, a former Justice Department
official, should ostensibly harbor a lack of appreciation for
this policy as well as an apparent disregard for the growing
diversity of American communities.
   As if it were not enough that the specter of tokenism
would have blemished any minority candidate selected to
replace Justice Brennan, Mr. Eastland's insensitive statement
does not bode well for the future of qualified minorities
attaining government positions. Adherence to this
equal-opportunity vehicle, which theoretically is supposed to
ensure due representation via a quota system, may not be
entirely correct, yet neither is it acceptable "to solidify a
conservative Supreme Court majority" to assuage certain
political parties.
   Like many Americans, I am unfamiliar with Judge David H.
Souter. Similarly, I am unaware of what Mr. Bush meant when
he declared his intention to fill the high-court vacancy with
a "strict constructionist." Nonetheless, it is unfortunate
that credentials and experience seem to be secondary
requirements for those occupying positions of special trust
and confidence.
   Americans should demand of all officials and
representatives -- elected or otherwise -- moral leadership.
Moral guidance has been relegated to the pursuit of trendy
social issues that does little to engender faith in those in
office. In determining who will set the moral climate we must
find leaders in public and private life whom we can look to
for guidance and example and overcome the urge to perpetuate
the status quo.
   M.A. Shepherd
   Friendswood, Texas
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Robert L. Muller
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST BAB EUROP KLM AFRIC FREST G.LHA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   FARE WARNING
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most European scheduled airlines are waiting until next
week's meeting of the International Air Transport Association
to decide how to bring their fares into line with sharply
higher fuel costs. But some European charter carriers are
boosting prices, and several cargo carriers said they have
raised rates to cover higher insurance premiums on planes
flying to the Middle East.
   Although tensions in the Gulf have pushed spot market jet
kerosene up by about 35% in the past month, most scheduled
airlines in Europe have held off raising their ticket prices.
One reason, industry observers said, is that the weak dollar
has blunted the effects of the fuel runup for carriers buying
dollar-denominated kerosene with strong European currencies.
Another is a reluctance to be the first to take the unpopular
step.
   One exception is British Airways, which this week sought
British government approval to boost its domestic fares by 6%
on Sept. 15. The company's trans-Atlantic fares are set to
increase by the same amount from Sept. 1.
   Another is KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, which said yesterday
it plans to impose an unspecified surcharge on passenger and
freight tariffs to the 13 Middle East cities it serves.
   The IATA meeting, scheduled for next Wednesday through
Friday in Geneva, will be open to 83 passenger and cargo
airlines that participate in IATA's tariff-setting
conferences.
                                                                                                       

   NO BUTTS ABOUT IT
                                                                                                       

   Lufthansa will ban smoking on its domestic flights,
beginning Oct. 28. The carrier, 51%-owned by the West German
government, said it took the decision following a passenger
survey in which "over 90%" of the respondents said they would
prefer that smoking not be allowed at all on flights.
However, a Lufthansa spokesman said smoking will continue to
be allowed in designated areas on international flights.
                                                                                                       

   WARMING UP TO PRETORIA
                                                                                                       

   Southern African nations that joined ranks 10 years ago to
isolate and reduce dependence on South Africa will celebrate
a decade of economic cooperation this week by extending the
hand of friendship to their old foe. Leaders of the 10-nation
Southern African Development Coordination Conference, due to
begin a two-day summit in Botswana tomorrow, have warmed up
to South Africa after recent political changes there. But
wary of possible domination by South Africa, the region's
economic giant, the organization is looking for assurances
that Pretoria will uphold regional interests.
                                                                                                       

   IRISH BEEF STAKE
                                                                                                       

   The Mideast crisis threatens to push the Irish beef-export
industry, already suffering from the recent scare over "mad
cow disease," into its worst year in more than a decade.
Ireland sends 43.5% of its beef exports to the Middle East
and North Africa, with Iraq, Iran and Egypt accounting for
more than 90% of that business.
                                                                                                       

   SPOTTING LEOPARDS
                                                                                                       

   Mongolia, rich in animal species, is beginning to count
its living wealth in order to improve conservation. The
nation's many rare animals include snow leopards, Gobi Desert
bears, wild Bactrian camels, argali sheep and ibexes.
Officials have set limits for years on the number of each
species that can be killed, seldom knowing how many there
were to start with. Mongolia seeks to foster tourism,
including hunting safaris, to earn hard currency.
                                                                                                       

   NOW OR NEVER
                                                                                                       

   Greece said that if Athens fails in its bid to host the
1996 Olympic Games it will quit trying. "If we don't get the
1996 Olympics, we will never bid to host them again," said
Spyros Metaxas, president of the Athens Olympic Bidding
Committee. Greece, birthplace of the Olympics 2,766 years
ago, is hoping to stage the centenary of the modern games in
Athens, where they were revived in 1896. The other candidates
for staging the games are Atlanta, Toronto, Melbourne,
Belgrade and Manchester, England.
                                                                                                       

   EUROPEAN CROPS
                                                                                                       

   Dry weather hasn't burned most farmers, European Community
officials say.
   Although some farming regions in Europe have been hard hit
by this summer's drought, the officials noted that overall
damage to agriculture is "fairly limited." But the EC
Commission is worried that farmers hit by the water shortage
will ask for EC disaster-relief funds. The officials said
community finances already are strained by aid to Eastern
Europe, and farmers shouldn't count on an EC bailout.
   The drought hasn't been as bad for farmers as generally
thought, the officials added. For the main crops, such as
cereals and rapeseed, overall production is likely to exceed
last year's. Therefore, cereal producers who have complained
of low prices because of overproduction are unlikely to get
quick relief from higher prices.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   The Angolan government will meet Unita rebels in Portugal
on Monday for a third round of direct peace talks, the
official Angolan newspaper reported. . . . South Korea and
Iran signed an accord to jointly develop telecommunications
and postal systems, officials in Seoul said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Rough Riders
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   A firm hand with scrappy vacationing kids
   Is a policy I always endorse;
   So our annual family trip, too often,
   Ends up as a Tour de Force.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   Character Flaw
                                                                                                       

   There is one thing I say
   That is really a sham:
   "I don't mean to be critical" --
   But I usually am.
   -- Joshua Adams.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rep. Gingrich Urges Cuts
   In Taxes to Reduce Deficit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Rep. Newt Gingrich, the second-ranking House
Republican, further complicated deficit-reduction talks by
calling for tax cuts rather than tax increases.
   The Georgian, who is a budget summit negotiator, said
yesterday that he is putting together a package of tax cuts
that will include a reduction in the rate on capital gains
and, perhaps, a cut in the Social Security payroll tax. The
aim is to stimulate the economy at a time when it appears on
the verge of recession, he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Previously, Rep. Gingrich had expressed more willingness
to increase taxes to help reduce the budget deficit. A
spokesman said, "He is still in favor of the summit process
and reaching the targets."
   Still, his latest statement is yet another reminder that
Mr. Gingrich and the House Republicans he represents are
stalwarts against a tax increase. That position is yet
another obstacle to reaching a fiscal 1991 budget accord,
which would include tax increases and spending restraints.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Coffee Exchange Broker
   Is Fined $11,500, Expelled
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Coffee, Sugar &amp; Cocoa Exchange said floor
broker Stephen Amato was fined $11,500 and expelled from
exchange membership for violation of trading rules.
   The exchange, inaugurating a policy of publicly announcing
expulsions and suspensions, accused Mr. Amato of violating
rules relating to order execution, "cross trading" and the
proper recording of trades.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The fine imposed by an exchange adjudication committee is
one of the largest the coffee exchange has ever levied. The
coffee exchange is one of five New York-based commodity
futures exchanges, which along with the major Chicago
commodity markets have been under increasing government
pressure to discipline their members more severely.
   Besides his explusion as a member, Mr. Amato was
permanently barred from any employment on the coffee-exchange
floor.
   Mr. Amato couldn't be reached for comment. The coffee
exchange notified the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
that Mr. Amato didn't respond to the charges when they were
brought several months ago, nor did he request a hearing to
rebut them, a CFTC spokesman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Rogers Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ROG WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ROGERS Corp. (Rogers, Conn.) -- Harry H. Birkenruth,
senior vice president, polymer products group, was named to
the new position of executive vice president of this maker of
components and materials for the electronics and automotive
markets. In his new post, Mr. Birkenruth, 59 years old, will
assume responsibility for the company's electronic materials
group in Chandler, Ariz., in addition to his current
responsibilities with the polymer products group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Autos:
   Audi Is Picking Up but Has Miles to Go
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   G.AUD G.VOW
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   The odds of Audi selling Roger Swaybill on another of its
German luxury cars looked pretty slim.
   The New York screenwriter had leased a 1985 Audi 5000 that
he says was underpowered and riddled with flaws. The hysteria
over unfounded charges that some of those same models had
raced out of control made possessing an Audi seem foolish.
Moreover, his service visits were a nightmare, and when he
tried to get out of the lease, he discovered he would lose at
least $2,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These days, Mr. Swaybill drives a luxury car he
enthusiastically calls "hot, powerful and exciting." But it's
no BMW, Mercedes-Benz or Lexus -- it's an Audi 200, a
successor to the star-crossed 5000.
   "I was skeptical about giving them another chance," Mr.
Swaybill admits. "But I was overwhelmed with Audi's efforts
to keep me." His Audi dealer started by swallowing the $2,000
loss on the old lease. Then the dealer knocked several
thousand dollars off the price of the new 200 model. The car
also came with an extensive factory warranty that ensures Mr.
Swaybill will pay for little more than filling the gas tank
over the three years of his lease.
   By lavishing this kind of attention on customers, Audi,
the luxury-car arm of Volkswagen AG, has stabilized itself
after a four-year skid that threatened its survival in the
U.S. market. Battered by the sudden-acceleration scare and
the onslaught of Japanese auto makers in the luxury market,
Audi's annual U.S. sales plunged to just 21,225 cars in 1989
from a record 74,241 four years earlier.
   But over the past four quarters, Audi's sales have
increased from a year earlier, its longest such streak since
the mid-1980s. And through the first seven months of this
year, Audi has boosted its sales by 5.6% over the same period
a year ago, while European luxury-car sales overall in the
U.S. are off 6.9%.
   Still, a comeback for Audi is far from certain. Sales in
July served as a sharp reminder by plunging 41.7% from July
1989. And as Mr. Swaybill's case illustrates, Audi is paying
dearly for every customer it wins.
   Audi's marketing and rebate costs per car sold in recent
years rank among the highest in the auto industry. Last year,
the company's national advertising spending alone ran at an
estimated $3,300 a car. That's more than 10 times the
estimated $318 a car that General Motors Corp.'s Cadillac
luxury division spends annually on its national ads.
   Then there are the huge discounts Audi is offering to make
sales. At one point during its four-year slide, the company
gave previous owners of its cars $5,000 off the price of a
new 5000 model. Now Audi, through dealer rebates, is lopping
as much as $3,000 off the price of its 100 models. That's
more than 10% off the base price.
   Audi's much-advertised "Three-Year Test Drive" leasing
program is even more costly. The company takes off as much as
$6,000 a car to make payments on a three-year lease as low as
those for some other companies' five-year lease agreements.
The deal has proved popular enough to increase the number of
people leasing an Audi by nearly 250% over the past year.
Leases now account for more than half of the company's
overall car sales.
   Audi has been spending big bucks for sales in other ways
as well. To get people to buy its 1988 and 1989 models, it
guaranteed the resale value of the cars after at least two
years. Audi told buyers they would get the difference between
the used price of their Audi and the average resale price of
comparable BMW, Mercedes-Benz and Volvo models. Dealers say
customers eligible for the offer are getting refunds of $754
to $3,314 because the price of most used Audis has sunk so
low.
   Audi officials say they see few alternatives to the
strategy of buying back consumer good will.
   "We've had to look inward to decide if we're going to make
it and then take care to keep as many customers as we can,"
says Richard L. Mugg, the Volkswagen of America vice
president in charge of Audi's U.S. operations. He feels like
the "old high school coach who tells his team in the midst of
a losing streak that there's nothing like disappointment to
build dedication."
   Disappointment is an understatement for what happened to
Audi. When the brand hit its peak in 1985, the aerodynamic
Audi 5000 was hailed as a styling masterpiece that even
influenced designs for the Ford Taurus, Mercury Sable and
Lincoln Continental. It helped that Audi's major rivals in
the U.S. were familiar foes it had long faced in Europe.
   Then came the sudden-acceleration scare, which ultimately
proved baseless, but still resulted in the sales catastrophe.
While Audi was struggling to regain its strength, Japanese
auto makers were putting finishing touches on cars aimed
right at Audi and the other European luxury makes. The
top-of-the-line 32-valve Audi V8 Quattro with a 1990 base
price of $47,500, including a gas-guzzler surcharge, looks
like a bargain compared with a $63,550 Mercedes 420 SEL. But
Toyota Motor Corp.'s eight-cylinder, 32-valve Lexus LS400
costs just $40,400, even after adding in several luxury
options.
   "With the concentration of competition at that end of the
market, it will be difficult to make a major move in market
share," says John Hammond, managing partner of J.D. Power &amp;
Associates Inc., an Agoura Hills, Calif., market researcher.
"Audi is doing a lot of things better these days, but it's
swimming upstream."
   Among the things Audi has improved are the quality of its
cars and customer relations. In customer satisfaction surveys
by J.D. Power, Audi did better than the industry average this
year after trailing it significantly in 1986, when
sudden-acceleration complaints began to mount. Another J.D.
Power survey this year on initial defects showed Audi making
a huge gain by jumping to 12th place from 27th in 1989.
   Audi has worked hard with its dealers to focus more on
improving relations with customers. And it has run some
marketing campaigns highlighting safety features of its cars.
   "Our aim," says Audi general sales manager Joseph Tate,
"is to show we're a safe buy." Establishing that notion and
easing lingering doubts about the sudden-acceleration scare
will be crucial for Audi to complete by next year. That's
when the company is scheduled to bring out an all-new
replacement for its bread-and-butter 100 and 200 models, most
of which will feature a V-6 engine instead of the current
five-cylinder power plant.
   High hopes for the new 100s and 200s are a major reason
Audi is willing to pump so much into supporting sales now.
Still, expectations for the new models aren't so high that
Audi executives are willing to make bold predictions about
the future.
   "We have those dreams {of getting back to 1985 sales
levels}, but here and now we have to keep looking at gradual
improvements," says Mr. Mugg. All it takes to remember the
immediate needs, he says, "is to just keep thinking about how
all we have is 0.2% of the market."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Viewpoint:
   There's No Turning Back Against Iraq
   ----
   By Hodding Carter III
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The United States is at war.
   The buildup in the Arabian desert is a prelude to victory
or defeat. It cannot be anything else.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This will not be another comic opera engagement, the giant
of 250 million citizens scoring a famous victory over a
vacation island of 125,000, as in Grenada. It will not be a
lightning police action designed to replace our own
hand-picked, carefully trained bully boy, as in Panama. This
is already a high-stakes war, of nerves now but almost
inevitably of bloody victory or humiliating defeat. Only
stunning luck or incredibly deft diplomacy can forestall one
or the other, barring an unlikely cut-and-run by Saddam
Hussein.
   To describe what President Bush has ordered as anything
other than undeclared war is sophistry. We are attempting to
quarantine an aggressor. We are blockading the enemy, turning
back his shipping on the open seas. Much of what we are doing
is in cooperation with others, under a UN Security Council
mandate -- liberally interpreted -- in response to an
invasion which violated international law and threatens the
world's economic well-being.
   Behind the facade of a common front, however, stands the
unadorned reality of America as unilateral actor. If fighting
begins, we will do most of it. When assessments are made, the
U.S. will be measured first.
   It is too late to debate the president's wisdom on each
and every decision. For the record, let me say that I think
President Bush has acted with intelligence, courage and speed
in the wake of Iraq's seizure of Kuwait. He has acted for the
right reasons and for reasons of necessity -- which are not
entirely the same. But let me add that the Bush
administration's inclination to appease right up to the
moment of unavoidable rupture has reaped its predictable
harvest with Iraq, as it did with China. The president and
his chief lieutenants bear major responsibility for the
unchecked growth of Saddam's appetite and capacity for
serious mischief.
   When the war is over, they should be held accountable; for
the moment, however, past appeasement and our individual
responses to what has been done in the nation's name are
beside the point. What matters is that the U.S. is committed.
What is imperative is that we remain committed until Kuwait
is no longer occupied and Iraq is neutralized.
   Suddenly, what seemed important only yesterday has been
trivialized, the looming obsessions of public debate reduced
to relative insignificance. "Just Who Is David Souter?" asked
the cover of Time Magazine on Aug. 6. "Who cares?" is the
reply two weeks later. Europe has all but vanished; Southern
Africa's turmoil and Liberia's bloodletting are so much news
from nowhere; NASA's failures in space stray beyond the
public's sight.
   A large sign in the main waiting room of the Bangor,
Maine, international airport says it all:
   US Military: Good Luck, Hurry Back.
   President Bush has put significant numbers of American
servicemen and women in harm's way for the first time since
Vietnam. They will not be coming home any time soon. No
matter whether Saddam Hussein backs off or hunkers down, tens
of thousands of Americans will be stationed in the Middle
East for months, and perhaps years.
   The President and Congress must therefore promptly agree
on our national goals in the Persian Gulf and make them clear
to the American people and to our friends and enemies abroad.
Absent such a consensus, time is on Iraq's side, barring only
all-out war.
   Time is against us anyway, with or without consensus. The
longer American troops are in Saudi Arabia, the more certain
a fierce Arab reaction against their presence becomes.
Considering the region's history over the past two centuries,
Western expeditionary forces are hardly welcome, while
neither the widely rich sheikdoms nor the Saudi monarchy
excite much support in the Middle East. It will be
exceedingly difficult to hold even the most pro-Western or
dependent Arab states in a U.S.-run coalition for long. Very
few months are going to pass before the United States becomes
the enemy of virtually the entire Arab world.
   Time is our foe for another reason. If weeks stretch into
months and Saddam Hussein remains implacably in place, he
will achieve the popular support he has always sought in the
Middle East. Reaction against his aggression, of more
interest to Arab leaders than to their people in any case,
will be marginalized, while he will be admired for his
courage in standing up to Washington. Nothing succeeds like
success.
   Time is on Iraq's side because we are an impatient people.
This war is going to be costly -- in both military and
economic terms. Public support will erode the longer it drags
on without a resolution. Saddam is already playing skillfully
on the American psyche, holding U.S. citizens as hostages in
what he repeatedly asserts will be a very long game. Stories
about their families' grief and fear are prime time staples.
   All these considerations underline the pressing need for a
declaration of explicit goals to go with the implicit
declaration of war. The rationale for what we are doing must
be publicly presented, openly debated and formally endorsed.
   Central to forging a consensus is the proposition that we
are in this to win, whether in concert or alone. The
alternative is unthinkable, not least because Saddam Hussein
is no one-of-a-kind demon. There is a baker's dozen more cut
from his cloth from one end of the earth to the other, each
with an itch to march across frontiers. Let Saddam succeed,
or escape unscathed, and there will be no restraining them.
That way lies a world more unsafe than at any time since the
height of the Cold War.
   Losing is also unthinkable because it would almost
certainly remove the United States from the world scene as an
active player. We have been internationalist for almost 50
years because we feared world domination by powerful
totalitarians. That threat has all but vanished. If what
replaces it is a series of humiliations arising from the
assumption of responsibilities shunned by others no less
directly affected, the public outcry will not be long in
coming. Broad-based and populist rather than right- or
left-wing, it will be overwhelming. Eighteen years after
George McGovern made it his mantra at the Democratic
convention in Miami Beach, "Come home, America" will be the
rallying cry for a new national majority.
   So, to say last what might as well have been said first,
this is a conflict which requires a congressional declaration
of war the moment that American forces engage in combat. The
White House should seek every congressional approval required
or implied by law, starting with the War Powers Act. It is
going to a very long haul. That is why President Bush should
see to it that the requirements of the Constitution are as
honored as those who die fighting in its name and under its
authority. That's not only good government -- it's the way to
ensure that the nation will stay the course in what promises
to be a protracted and bloody crisis.
   ---
   Mr. Carter is a political commentator who heads a
television production firm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Unlisted Shares Plunge in Final Hour
   En Route to 4th Straight Losing Session
   ----
   By Howard Hoffman
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Despite an initial surge at the opening bell,
over-the-counter stocks eased by midmorning and then fell
drastically in the last hour of trading on their way to
another closing loss.
   Traders say uncertainty about a resolution to the crisis
in the Middle East is preoccupying investor minds. They say
until there is positive news from the Persian Gulf the market
can expect more erosion of stock prices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The market can take bad news and it can take good news.
It can't take uncertainty," says Robert McCready, a senior
trader for A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons in St. Louis.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index ended the day at 374.84, a 4.84
point loss. The Nasdaq's broad index's 1.3% loss was slightly
better than the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index's
1.5% decline. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 1.7%, or
43.81.
   OTC stocks surged at the opening bell only to show losses
again before the first hour of trading was complete. Traders
found little consolation in the opening burst and even less
in a steep decline during the last hour.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index had been down about two points
at midafternoon.
   Declining issues led advancers 1,267 to 722. Volume was
146.1 million shares compared with 166.5 million shares
Tuesday.
   This was the OTC's fourth consecutive losing session.
   Robert O'Toole, head of OTC trading for Shearson Lehman
Brothers, suggested that investors sold off
telecommunications, cable and cellular stocks in an effort to
take whatever profit remains in their portfolios.
   The Nasdaq Utility Index outpaced the broader market's
slump, closing 2.9% lower.
   MCI Communications, the most active OTC issue, fell 5/8 to
33 on two million shares. Tele-Communications Class A shares
fell 7/8 to 10 1/4. American Television &amp; Communications was
down 1/2 to 29 1/4.
   McCaw Cellular was off 1 to 17 3/4. LIN Broadcasting
tumbled 2 7/8 to 54 1/8. Contel Cellular dropped 1/2 to 13
1/2.
   Nike has been hit by major declines recently and yesterday
was no exception.
   The athletic-shoe maker's shares fell 5 3/8 to 62 despite
apparently good news that local black community groups in
Portland, Ore., Nike's headquarters, would not join a boycott
of Nike and its products. "Operation Push" has urged a
boycott, claiming Nike does not provide adequate employment
or business opportunities for blacks.
   Traders speculated that investors are skeptical of Nike
shares because of general market woes and concerns that a
prolonged recession would hurt sales of expensive athletic
shoes.
   Elmwood Federal Savings Bank shares lost 50.9% of its
value diving 6 3/4 to 6 1/2. Susquehanna Bancshares cited
changes in market conditions late Tuesday when it terminated
its agreement to purchase Elmwood Federal for about $24
million. Susquehanna shares added 3/4 to close at 17 3/4.
   Justin Industries signed a definitive agreement to acquire
Tony Lama Co. for $9 a share or about $52 million. Tony Lama
jumped 3 1/2 to 8. Justin Industries fell 3/4 to 14 1/4.
   Mission-Valley Bancorp and Northern California Bancorp
announced they would merge. Their merger agreement calls for
Northern California shareholders to receive 1.23 new shares
for each existing share. Mission-Valley shares added 2 to
close at 12 1/4. Northern California declined 1 1/2 to 16.
   Xoma fell 1 3/4 to 18 1/4 on concerns about the Food and
Drug Administration's requests for more information about
Xoma drugs intended for the treatment of septic shock and
complications associated with bone marrow transplants.
   NovaCare announced it plans to offer another four million
common shares in a public offering. NovaCare shares dropped 1
5/8 to 18 7/8.
   Autodesk was one point higher at 46 3/4. The company
reported late Tuesday that net income for the second quarter
rose to 59 cents a share from 46 cents a year ago.
   Stuart Hall fell 1 5/8 to 9. The company disclosed Tuesday
that another investor group has expressed interest in
acquiring a 7% stake in the company. Stuart Hall said it is
not negotiating with that group but has negotiated with
another group also interested in a 7% stake.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Battered Nikkei:
   Japan's Stock Market,
   After Defying Gravity,
   Comes Back to Earth
   ---
   This Year's Dramatic Decline
   Reflects Tight Liquidity
   And Fundamental Change
   ---
   Meanest Bear Since the War
   ----
   By Marcus W. Brauchli and Clay Chandler
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
SHIPBUILDERS OF COMMERCIAL SHIPS (SHP)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Around the world, securities firms have been
blaming Saddam Hussein for the recent stock sell-off on
international markets. But at the battered Tokyo exchange,
traders are acknowledging a different and more painful truth:
The glory days for the Japanese market may be over -- and
that, in the bigger picture, has little to do with Iraqi
tanks in Kuwait.
   "For five years, this market defied the law of gravity,"
says Bruce Johnson, director of research at Barings
Securities Ltd. in Tokyo. "Now, economic fundamentals are
catching up."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And in a big way. Analysts had hoped that the
roller-coaster ride the Japanese stock market has taken this
year -- up 400 points one day, down 500 the next -- would be
a mere interlude on the way to ever-higher stock prices. But
now, even the most optimistic traders are changing their
tune.
   The market has plummeted precipitously this year,
particularly in the last few weeks, in what amounts to its
most bearish performance since World War II. Suddenly, the
potent mixture of avarice and optimism that blasted Japanese
stocks into the stratosphere in the 1980s has been supplanted
by a pervasive sense of gloom. The Tokyo Stock Exchange this
year has recorded eight of the 10 largest declines in its
history. On Wednesday the Nikkei average fell 1086.93 points,
or 4%, to close at 25210.91, its lowest level in more than
two years. (In early trading Thursday, the Nikkei was down
521.09 points.)
   The index has now dropped 35% since the start of the year
and 18% since the beginning of August. Over the last eight
months, stocks in the market have lost a third of their value
-- more than $1.3 trillion. And while the Tokyo exchange
started out the year as the world's most heavily capitalized
market, it has since fallen behind the New York Stock
Exchange.
   Gone is the era when investors could blithely ignore
economic factors -- as they did in the 1980s -- and still
reap an average compound annual return of more than 20%. Gone
are the days when one of every dozen actively traded stocks
would double in a single year -- as happened in 1989. Gone,
too, are the explanations of how Japan's arcane corporate
accounting system or its sparkling economic prospects could
justify price to earnings ratios four or five times as high
as those on Wall Street or in the City of London. In the
words of Hiroshi Uchida, an analyst for CS First Boston
(Japan) Ltd.: "It's obvious that a bubble has burst."
   For now, economists say, the stock market's implosion
doesn't presage the end of Japan's 45-month-long economic
boom. The world's second largest economy, driven by consumer
spending and heavy capital investment by manufacturers,
galloped ahead at a remarkable annualized growth rate of
10.4% in the first three months of the year. That breakneck
pace may be slowing, but most experts still expect Japan's
economy to grow by 4% to 5% this calendar year and next. And
corporate profits are generally stable or rising slightly.
   Instead, there are certain trends within that robust
economy that are working to rein in the stock market, to the
point that share prices aren't expected to rise to their
previous highs any time soon. "The market is lower, and it's
going to stay lower," says Liam Newberg, an analyst at
Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.'s Tokyo office.
   A formidible array of negatives -- chief among them
tighter liquidity -- heralds a long bout of stock-market
malaise, experts say. The crisis in the Middle East, which
helped drive the New York Stock Exchange down more than 43
points yesterday, has depressed Japanese prices lately but is
considered a secondary factor in the long run. Indeed, some
analysts believe this year's more fundamental shift in the
Tokyo market ultimately could prove to be one of the most
important changes in Japan's post-World War II development.
They say Japan is entering a period of tighter money and,
eventually, industry shake-outs.
   Already, some analysts are spotting weaknesses in
companies that didn't get around to raising money through
additional public offerings during the stock market boom. In
the shipbuilding industry, for example, all six of Japan's
major manufacturers eagerly want to retool production
capacity to keep pace with rising demand. But in recent
months, only two -- Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. and
Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co. -- have raised new
capital through the equity market. "The other shipbuilders
are going to have to resort to some very creative financing"
to keep up with their competitors, says Thomas Murtha, an
analyst at Baring Securities. "They'll have to work hard just
to stay in place."
   The market's plunge earlier this year prompted Japan's big
securities houses to stop underwriting new issues and,
although they started again in July, new issues have been
reduced to a trickle. Therefore, consolidation in businesses
such as shipbuilding, construction and banking may be
inevitable, analysts say.
   To make matters worse, interest rates in Japan have moved
decidedly -- and, analysts say, permanently -- higher than
they were in the 1980s, restricting another source of capital
for businesses and individual investors.
   The Bank of Japan began this new era in May 1989 when it
raised its discount rate -- the first rate hike by the
central bank in that decade. Since then, though, the Bank of
Japan has raised the rate three more times, and nearly
everybody in Japan's financial markets expects at least one
more boost by year's end. The rate now stands at 5.25% --
more than double its historic low during the February 1987 to
May 1989 period.
   Saddam Hussein's occupation of Kuwait will likely help
keep rates high, if higher oil prices begin to spur higher
inflation in Japan. Until the recent embargo, the country
imported nearly 12% of its oil from Iraq and Kuwait. The
runaway inflation that followed the 1973 oil crisis left a
powerful impression on Bank of Japan governor Yasushi Mieno.
Economists expect him to keep interest rates high,
particularly if oil prices start to rapidly rise again.
   The central bank's vigilance against inflation -- and
therefore its inclination to keep interest rates high -- will
probably increase in the latter part of the decade. Japan's
population is aging at a rate faster than that of any other
industrial nation, and its labor pool isn't growing.
Competition for new recruits is so intense that this spring
one textile manufacturer offered to buy each new hire a new
car as an incentive to sign on. Scarce labor is expected to
put so much pressure on wages that eventually "it could lead
to a South American style inflation if something isn't done,"
warns William H. Brown, president of Scudder, Stevens &amp; Clark
Japan Inc., a fund-management firm.
   Just as high rates have choked the stock market recently,
the low interest rates of the 1980s allowed Japan's stock
market to soar. "Liquidity was the lifeblood" of the market's
half-decade-long rally, says Mr. Brown. In the year ended
March 31, 1990, profit at 560 major companies was up 8.4%,
after growing more than 20% in the two previous fiscal years,
according to Yamaichi Securities Co. The central bank's key
measure of money supply has been growing at about 10% or more
a year since 1987.
   During the booming bull market, a company's earnings
performance was often irrelevant to investors. Buoyed by the
availability of money, share prices seemed inevitably to
climb. Sometimes, even stocks in declining sectors, like
fisheries and mining, performed as well as or better than
stocks in high-growth sectors like automobiles and electric
appliances.
   "When I started following this market, I thought, `This is
a completely speculative market and I don't understand it,'"
recalls Robert Zeilinski, a veteran analyst with Jardine
Fleming Securities Ltd. "Then I studied it some more and
decided, `No, it just functions according to a different set
of rules than Wall Street.' Then I studied it again, and
decided that probably I was right the first time: It's a
stupid market. Basically, everyone's just trying to figure
out what everyone else is buying."
   But Japan's financial markets were smart enough to realize
that wealth begets wealth. Property prices soared in many
parts of Japan, as investors channeled money made in the
stock market into land, then channeled money borrowed against
escalating property values back into stocks. Stock prices
more than tripled and land prices more than doubled in the
last half of the 1980s.
   Eventually, the Bank of Japan started worrying that this
asset inflation could spill over into consumer-price
inflation, and that's what triggered the policy of soaking up
excess liquidity with higher interest rates. Japanese
government bonds now yield more than 8%, for the first time
in six years. Corporate earnings per share, meanwhile,
average only 2.2% of stock prices.
   Now, investors are socking away more and more money in
newly deregulated kinds of bank accounts that offer
market-based interest rates. Taking a break in the sunshine
on the steps of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, Junichi Watanabe, a
trader with Baring Securities Ltd., gives voice to a now
common opinion: "Why invest in stocks, which can be
dangerous, when you can put money in a bank without any
risk."
   Even globalization is contributing to Japan's new
liquidity crunch. In recent years, Japanese investors have
become savvier about investing abroad, and are looking at
more than just U.S. Treasury bonds. Purchases of West German
stocks by Japanese investors, for example, are zooming.
Clearly, the resulting paucity of money in the Japanese
market has directly influenced the trading floor. In the
tumultuous first six months of this year, daily trading
volume plummeted, right along with the value of trades. The
average daily trading value amounted to 879 billion yen, or
roughly $6 billion, during the first six months of this year.
That's about a third of the average daily value during the
same period last year.
   A thin market also is a potentially volatile one. When
volume declines, the impact of a few large trades is
exaggerated, which is one reason many analysts blamed
computerized program trading for some of the steepest losses
this year. In program trading, an investor relies on a
computer to spot and quickly exploit -- often with big trades
-- price discrepancies in the market. Some of Japan's larger
securities firms have asked regulators to impose new
restrictions on the practice, which is largely conducted in
Japan by American companies.
   Still, the big brokerage houses realize that simply
shackling program trades won't restore the market's former
luster. "We've passed the peak," says Stephen D. Barber, a
managing director at MIM Investco K.K., a British investment
firm in Japan. "It's fairly clear where we're going. A lot of
stocks have run their course."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan May Provide Economic Assistance
   To Countries Hurt by Blockade of Iraq
   ----
   By Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN MDEST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan will consider economic aid requests from
Persian Gulf countries that are hurt by the international
blockade of Iraq, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said.
   The spokesman said the policy, which he called
"unprecedented," was decided after Egyptian President Hosni
Mubarak asked visiting Japanese Foreign Minister Taro
Nakayama to help Cairo offset foreign-exchange losses that
eventually could total $2 billion a year. Mr. Nakayama is on
a tour of several nations in the region.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition to Egypt, Turkey and Jordan probably would be
eligible for aid, the spokesman said. Last week, Iran asked
Japan for $1.5 billion in fresh loans, but that request
wasn't directly tied to the crisis in the Gulf.
   New money to countries in the region would take the form
of both grants and loans, the Foreign Ministry official said.
   In addition to its pledge to provide financial aid, Japan
yesterday said it would dispatch medical and communications
equipment to Gulf countries hurt by the confrontation with
Iraq.
   Japan, the world's second-largest importer of oil, has
been agonizing over how to respond to the Aug. 2 Iraqi
invasion of Kuwait. Although it joined in the international
boycott of Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil and froze Kuwait's financial
assets in Japan, the government considers itself
constitutionally barred from providing military assistance in
the region. Under the country's constitution, drafted by the
occupied Allied forces after World War II, Japan is prevented
from maintaining a military except for its own defense.
   Over the past several weeks, some officials have said they
might consider revisions in the country's laws to provide
some kind of support to the multinational force in the Gulf.
But the country's political opposition, led by the Japan
Socialist Party, vehemently opposes such a move.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   PNC Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   PNC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PNC FINANCIAL Corp. (Pittsburgh) -- Bruce E. Robbins, 46
years old, formerly vice chairman of this bank holding
company's Central Trust unit, was named chairman and chief
executive officer of Central Trust, Cincinnati, succeeding
Gary N. Kocher, who resigned to pursue other business
opportunities. J. Clay Stinnett, formerly senior executive
vice president of Central Trust, was named the unit's
president and chief operating officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rally's to Acquire 5 Restaurants
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   RLLY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- Rally's Inc., a hamburger restaurant
chain, said it agreed to acquire five restaurants in Ohio
from a franchisee. Terms weren't disclosed. After the
purchase, the company will own 88 of the 237 Rally's
restaurants in 24 states.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Washington Post Co. Agrees to Finance
   Experimental Wireless-Phone System
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WPO
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Washington Post Co., an early investor in the
cellular-phone industry, agreed to finance an experimental
wireless communications system that one day could rival
existing phone services.
   The agreement calls for Washington Post to set up a
limited partnership with Baltimore-based American Personal
Communications Inc., which earlier this year received
licenses from the Federal Communications Commission to build
and test the system in the Washington area.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, Washington Post will invest $6 million to be
used for "research, technology exploration and labor costs
over a two-to-three-year period," said Wayne Schelle, APC's
chairman.
   If the test is successful, the partners said they will ask
the FCC for an operating license to provide service in the
Washington area and will pursue licenses for other U.S.
markets.
   Like cellular networks, the new network will use
transceivers placed around the city to transmit and relay
calls. However, the new system is expected to require far
less electricity than cellular systems. This, proponents say,
will allow for phones that are lighter than current cellular
portables, because their batteries are smaller.
   Mr. Schelle's network is still experimental. But if such
networks test successfully, analysts have said, they could
pose a serious long-term challenge not only to cellular-phone
networks, which provide portable phone services today, but
also to local phone companies that have long enjoyed a
monopoly on hard-wired residential and business phone
services.
   Mr. Schelle envisions a phone that will sell for about $75
once full-scale networks are operating, plus a monthly
service charge of $35 to $45 a month by 1995. Portable
cellular phones, by contrast, sell for $1,000, and service
costs about $90 to $100 a month. Mr. Schelle and Washington
Post were partners in the Washington-Baltimore area's first
cellular network in 1983. He ended up selling his 40%
interest the following year for $52.5 million. The Post left
the cellular business in 1986, realizing a $200 million
after-tax gain on its investment in properties that also
included networks in Detroit and Miami.
   "This gives us a successful partner with sufficient
resources," Mr. Schelle said. "It's like starting the game in
the fourth inning." A spokesman for the Post said the company
will set up a new division to provide and market pocketphone
services if the Washington tests succeed.
   "We're not a company that likes to flip assets," he said.
"Our aim is to do this broadly and systematically in a way in
which we can have a sizable stance."
   The Post is not alone. A growing number of companies are
either planning or have begun to erect networks that will
provide pocketphone services. In England, several companies
already provide a service called Personal Communications
Network, or PCN, that allows customers to place calls on
pocketphones. And several companies, including partnerships
involving regional Bell companies, have begun building
networks in England to provide two-way phone services.
   In the U.S. the FCC has awarded about 20 licenses to test
"personal communications services" or PCS. Companies such as
APC, Millicom Inc. and Graphic Scanning Corp., have received
permission from the FCC to test their PCS systems at various
frequencies.
   Nynex Corp. recently announced plans to install an adjunct
pocketphone-type system to its cellular network, using
network equipment from American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. and
Qualcomm Inc.
   Motorola Inc. plans a satellite-based service. The company
wants to offer portable-phone service through a network of
more than 70 low-orbit satellites by the end of the decade.
   The Post and APC expect to begin testing the system by
year end and to have it working fully in suburban Maryland
and Virginia by the end of 1991.
   The Washington test will involve transmission and
reception in two frequencies -- 900 MHz, which current
cellular networks use, and 1800-1900 MHz, Mr. Schelle said.
   In the first stage, as many as 2,000 customers will get a
one-way service, with which they can place calls after
receiving a message on an attached pager. In the second
stage, expected to be available by the end of next year,
customers will get two-way service allowing them to send and
receive calls.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Saudis' Oil Riches
   Make Costs of Crisis
   Much Easier to Bear
   ---
   Boost in Output of 2 Million
   Barrels a Day Appears
   Simple -- and Lucrative
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   DAMMAM, Saudi Arabia -- Fifty rifle-carrying Bedouins
wearing thick bandoliers of ammunition snap to attention as
Prince Muhammed bin Fahd walks into the arena-size sitting
room of his palace.
   The prince is governor of Saudi Arabia's Eastern Province,
currently overrun with some 100,000 refugees from Kuwait. A
growing chunk of the U.S. military also is encamped here
along the west coast of the Persian Gulf. The Saudis must
provide tank-carrying trucks, troop-carrying buses and much
other logistical support to help the U.S. soldiers defend the
oil fields, if need be, against an attack by Iraq.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A few miles away, in Dhahran, engineers for the
government-owned Saudi Arabian Oil Co. are working out ways
to pump an extra two million barrels of oil a day, crude that
will be desperately needed to ease the shock threatening the
world's economy if the Persian Gulf crisis continues. They
are confident that if ordered to do so, they could do it
quickly.
   The Eastern Province, home of some two million Saudis,
amounts to a company town and, one way or another, the
company -- Saudi Aramco -- is going to take care of the
prince's problems.
   Who will buy gas masks, asks a group of Western reporters,
invited to watch the prince hold court? Who will house and
feed the Kuwaitis? "The government is taking care of that,"
he responds.
   According to Western experts, the government can well
afford to solve the problems, for the crisis has kicked up
the price of oil by more than $10 a barrel. If it decides to
pump the additional oil, the Saudi government will bring in
an extra $100 million a day, they say.
   The mood here is definitely bullish. "We support you with
our blood," says a Kuwaiti supplicant, one of a long line of
turbaned men waiting to hand the prince a petition seeking
help.
   The lifeblood of the Eastern Province is crude and there
is a stupefyingly large amount of it. For example, Prince
Fahd's court sits on Dammam field, an oil formation
containing more than a billion barrels. It has been closed
for several years because the Saudis no longer needed to pump
it.
   The Saudi government has assured the Bush administration
and a number of other oil-thirsty countries that it will
produce the extra oil needed to help them through the crisis,
although the formal announcement will come after further
negotiations with other oil-producing states.
   "It will take some time, but if told to do it in a hurry,
we have tremendous flexibility," explains Sidney D. Bowers,
consultant to Saudi Aramco and formerly chief geologist for
the company when it was owned by four U.S. oil companies.
   During the past two years the company has discovered six
oil fields, most of them containing more than a billion
barrels apiece. It has 53 others, including the fabled Ghawar
field, an underground lake of petroleum that is 160 miles
long and 20 miles wide. In all, there are some 257 billion
barrels of proven reserves here, 25% of the world's supply.
   Mr. Bowers points out that the U.S. has only two oil
fields containing more than a billion barrels and that most
of the U.S. oil comes from fields that are on the verge of
old age.
   "These {Saudi} fields are so good that they're in what we
call a juvenile state," he adds, noting that they provide
plenty of pressure to pump the oil. While production costs in
older fields in the U.S. and elsewhere can run well beyond
$20 a barrel, the Saudis are believed to pump oil at a
maximum cost of about $2 a barrel.
   While the economics for the extra effort are in place, the
social strain of the crisis is beginning to wear on Saudi
Aramco. So far, according to company officials, it has sent
home 3,000 dependents of its expatriate workers, many of them
Americans. Only about 1% of its 11,000 foreign workers have
left, they add.
   Mr. Bowers points out that the company has surged to meet
bigger crises before. In 1977, when a fire knocked out six
million barrels of daily production in one field, oil workers
jury-rigged pumping systems from other fields to make up the
shortfall in a month.
   In those days the company, then called Arabian-American
Oil Co., or Aramco, pumped almost twice the 5.3 million
barrels that it pumps today. Falling oil prices, starting in
1980, forced production cutbacks and sent the economy of the
Eastern Province into a 10-year recession.
   The invasion of Kuwait has ended that and has graphically
underscored the long interdependence between the U.S. and
Saudi Arabia that began one day in 1933 when Max Steineke, a
stubborn geologist for Standard Oil Co. of California, saw a
peculiar, dome-shaped hill near here and had a hunch there
was oil in it.
   Four years and four dry holes later, he had experienced
multiple cave-ins, many broken drill bits and the deep
despair of a Westerner who has spent too much time in the
desert. "No oil, no water," he said in one terse message to
California.
   His fifth well, the following year, brought in the Dammam
field.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Have You Heard the New Slogan?
   Join the Party and See the World
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- The local Republican Party still may not win
elections, but at least now it offers a winning ticket.
   The woebegone county GOP, outnumbered by Democrats 2 1/2
to 1, has a new scheme to register Republican voters. How
will it combat the electoral imbalance? Fiery rhetoric?
Grass-roots appeal? A heavy dose of idealism?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "An exciting contest," proposes county GOP Chairman Henry
Sneath, in a letter to fellow Republicans. He wants local
youths to compete in registering Republican voters in
Pennsylvania's 18th Congressional District. The winner will
be selected in a raffle.
   The grand prize: "An all-expense-paid weekend for two to
Washington, D.C." But for those drooling for a trip to the
Potomac, there's a catch: The tightfisted GOP will only pay
$50 each for the winner and guest, including transportation
and hotel.
   The lucky couple will be chaperoned the entire weekend by
doting party elders who will save airfare by driving them on
the five-hour trek. The winner's discount hotel room will be
paid for with leftover frequent flier mileage. And if you're
going with your sweetheart, you may have to sleep in separate
rooms, says Sallie Duhon, a 55-year-old ward coordinator who
will chaperone the trip.
   "It's not the fanciest trip," admits Rick Santorum, the
Republican candidate for the 18th District. There may be no
free lunch in Washington, but county Republicans hope party
fat cats in the capital will pick up part of the tab.
   When the 18th District, in suburban Pittsburgh, was
redrawn in 1981, it gave the GOP a chance to gain a
congressional seat. But the Republicans still haven't won it,
nor do they hold any of the other four seats in Southwestern
Pennsylvania.
   Some 25 eager young Republicans have signed on, but the
target of the registration drive, Democratic incumbent Doug
Walgren, hasn't let the extravaganza disrupt his New England
vacation. Says Jonathan Delano, Mr. Walgren's chief of staff:
"No one is quaking in their boots."
   One Republican volunteer, David Rice, 21, says he wasn't
lured by the prize. "I don't see how you could be," he says.
   Maybe that's because he hasn't heard about the "attractive
runner-up prizes." These include tickets for the Republican
"victory cruise" on the Allegheny River. The party has high
hopes for the election, but apparently not too high: The
cruise sails three weeks before Election Day.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Fund Assets
   Pass $400 Billion,
   Setting a Record
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Money market mutual-fund assets cracked the
$400 billion mark, a record, in the week ended Tuesday.
   Investors poured $6.5 billion into taxable money funds,
according to IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report. The influx,
the largest weekly increase since Jan. 9, swelled the assets
of the 433 funds to a total of $400.4 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Assets of tax-exempt funds also climbed to a record.
Investors put a total of $7.5 billion into 229 tax-free
funds, bringing their assets to $81.1 billion.
   Donoghue's editor, Martha Wittbrodt, attributed the gains
to "investor nervousness and rockiness in the stock and bond
markets." She added that the assets flowing into the funds
"are coming from both retail and institutional investors."
   Jane Ginsburg, head of marketing for Benham Capital
Management Group of Mountain View, Calif., which runs five
money market funds, said "people are worried about the Middle
East situation and don't know what to do, so they're going
for liquidity, safety and security." She said total assets of
the firm's three taxable money funds are up $109 million in
the month to date to about $4 billion.
   Money funds, considered among the safest and most liquid
investments, invest in such instruments as short-term
Treasury securities, commercial paper (short-term corporate
IOUs), and bank certificates of deposit.
   The inflow of money came at the same time as a slight
uptick in seven-day money fund yields, Donoghue's reported.
According to the Holliston, Mass., newsletter, the average
seven-day compound yield on taxable money funds inched up to
7.80% from 7.78%. The compound yield assumes dividends are
reinvested.
   The average seven-day simple yield of the taxable funds
rose to 7.51% from 7.50%. But the average 30-day simple yield
eased, to 7.52% from 7.59%, and the average 30-day compound
yield slipped to 7.81% from 7.83%, the newsletter said.
   Yields on tax-exempt funds inched up slightly. The average
seven-day compound yield of 229 tax-free funds rose to 5.26%
from 5.21%, Donoghue's reported. That's equivalent to a
taxable yield of 7.31% for an investor in the 28% tax
bracket, and 7.85% for someone paying 33% in taxes.
   The average maturity of the investments in the portfolios
of taxable funds stayed steady at 45 days. That's within the
range of the past few months; the average maturity has been
as short as 29 days and as long as 53 days in recent years.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   ASSETS OF TAX-EXEMPT money-market funds grew by $7.5
million in the week ended Tuesday, according to
IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report, which supplied an incorrect
figure published in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ Aug. 24, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notice to Iraq:
   Hostage-Taking
   Is a War Crime
   ----
   By Mark Helprin
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Even if all lawyers should not be killed, most should
probably be isolated from the conduct of foreign relations.
Trained in a system that requires consensus and civil order,
they tend to confront barbarian outrages with impotent
legalities, applying the softest tools to the hardest stone.
   But the call to international law is not always an attempt
to dignify capitulation by the construction of illusion. In
concert with a great array of forces such as the U.S. and its
allies are now assembling in the Gulf, even the pathetic
legalisms that give meaning to the word toothless can spring
to the life for which they were originally intended. And,
just as finely crafted resolutions and declarations are of
little value unaccompanied by real power, real power is
improperly realized absent finely crafted declarations and
resolutions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The number of Saddam Hussein's hostages and
hostages-in-waiting ranges from a hundred or so to almost a
million, depending upon whether or not you are Egyptian. As
Saddam's assets dwindle he turns to local traditions such as
the refusal to distinguish between combatants and
noncombatants. Though most Westerners find this as
incomprehensible and difficult as the urge to martyrdom, we
have our own traditions that, for our enemies, can be
similarly threatening. To punish the transgressions we most
abhor, we have created institutions of long memory, noted
determination, and infinite patience.
   The president has wisely avoided precipitate action while
military and political activity increase the range of his
options. Reinforcing Saudi Arabia and choking Iraq was the
best initial strategy, and until new opportunities arise it
remains so. Nonetheless, it accentuates the role of the
hostages. Mr. Bush has said that he will hold Iraqis
responsible for the Americans among them, but he would do
well to be more specific. An uncertain threat can mean
nuclear retaliation or absolutely nothing. Iraq should be
told that the U.S. and its allies will pursue and try war
criminals. Every soldier under Saddam, from generals to
privates, should know what we have done before and will do
again, that when it was done it was not easy, that we
persevered through 50 million deaths, that half a century
later we are hunting down the criminals, that if men lived
1,000 years we would be hunting these criminals still. If the
implication they draw from such a declaration is that Baghdad
will be overrun as was Berlin, then that implication should
stand.
   Early in the Second World War, Roosevelt and Churchill
insistently made the punishment of war crimes one of the aims
of victory, and many of the guiding declarations issued in
the war years were emphatic: The St. James, Moscow, and
Potsdam declarations, the last of which stated with
compelling simplicity that "Stern justice shall be meted out
to all war criminals including those who have visited
cruelties upon our prisoners."
   In October 1943, the Allies established The United Nations
War Crimes Commission as an institution for the practical
application of the near universal sentiment against war
crimes. The effectiveness of such steps is hard to judge, but
it is impossible to ignore the difference in treatment
experienced by Allied prisoners of the Reich, whose
governments made clear what they would do after the war they
had the potential of winning, and others, notably the Jews,
who had no such shield. No guarantee exists that similar
steps will deter across the exquisitely delineated cultural
lines that separate Iraq and the West, especially in light of
Japanese treatment of Allied prisoners. Still, Japan's
Chinese prisoners fared far worse, and American and British
exhortations were directed mainly at Germany. Perhaps had a
similar tactic been used in regard to Japan, history would
have been slightly different.
   One of the problems of the Nuremberg tribunal, The
Subsequent Proceedings, which followed, and the International
Military Tribunal for the Far East was that though little
they affirmed in law was new, they had to break new ground in
its application. Now, however, precedent and procedure are
clearly established. Though Iraq has already violated the
Fourth 1949 Geneva Conventions -- in deporting prisoners,
taking hostages, discriminating among captives according to
nationality, and using civilians to shield military targets
-- we are concerned above all with the hostages' survival and
the length of their captivity. The more specific the demands
and threats in this regard, the better.
   Were the nations whose citizens are prisoners in Iraq to
offer in the United Nations a resolution, backed by the
declarations of their parliaments, to the effect that they
will hold each and every individual to account for the fate
of the hostages, the Iraqi security and military apparatus
that blindly follows Saddam's orders might hesitate. Saddam
might discover a certain viscosity in his chain of command.
The desire to overthrow him might become simultaneously more
fervent and more logical. Lives might be saved.
   In isolation, a U.N. resolution is worth little more than
the collected speeches of Cyrus Vance, but in combination
with the armies and fleets now gathering in the desert and
upon nearby seas, an unambiguous statement of intent would be
far more than a misplaced legality. Not only might it be of
interest to the Iraqis, but it would elucidate our aims,
principles and values, make clearer our purpose, and solidify
our resolve. In addition, it would be yet another of the many
active responses to the crisis. When Iran held our hostages
we were debilitated not so much by the arduous passage of
time as by the days and weeks that passed during which
absolutely nothing was done. Americans are impatient. We need
action each day, even if this means that our political
leadership must actively guide us through the great
difficulty of waiting. Action each day. And why not? Saddam
Hussein began with the initiative. We have wrested it from
him, and we must keep it from him.
   ---
   Mr. Helprin, novelist and political commentator, is a
graduate of Harvard's Center for Middle Eastern Studies and
served in the Israeli infantry and air force.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amoco Chemical Co. Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Amoco Corp. said its Amoco Chemical Co. unit
retained Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. to assist it in the sale of the
assets of its petroleum additives operation. The value of the
assets wasn't disclosed.
   The company previously said it intended to sell the
Clayton, Mo.-based operation, which has manufacturing
facilities in Illinois and Mississippi and employs more than
570 people in the U.S. and abroad.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   `Early Bird'
   Nasdaq Plan
   Hits a Snag
   ----
   By Richard E. Rustin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The effort by the National Association of
Securities Dealers to extend its automated quotations
computerized trading network to London trading hours has hit
a regulatory snag, which could delay the planned September
start-up or even scuttle the plan.
   The proposal, a step toward global 24-hour trading, must
be cleared by the Securities and Exchange Commission, because
it involves predawn trading in the U.S. The hitch arises
because the SEC is pressing the new Nasdaq system to publish
U.S.-style market data, principally trade-by-trade price and
volume figures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Less stringent publication requirements have been proposed
by Nasdaq, which is striving to woo business in U.S. stocks
away from London's International Stock Exchange.
   The NASD fears that dealers in the relatively thin London
market, accustomed to reporting skimpier information, will
balk at using a program with American-style rules, Joseph R.
Hardiman, NASD president, said in a telephone interview from
Washington, D.C. The NASD is the self-regulator for the U.S.
over-the-counter market.
   The disagreement highlights a larger issue, as world stock
markets become increasingly entwined and U.S. markets expand
overseas: Can a system meeting tough U.S. regulations compete
with more lenient foreign systems? Or must a system be bent
to meet local custom?
   "Our job is to further the integrity of the marketplace
and protect investors," Kathryn Natale, the SEC's assistant
director for OTC matters, said in a phone interview from
Washington. "We've discussed our concerns with the NASD,
including real-time information -- or rather, the lack
thereof."
   Ms. Natale said it is "clearly within the realm of
possibility" that the SEC would allow the program to publish
less market data. But she added: "We don't know if that's the
best thing for markets today. We don't know if it's advisable
to take a step backward."
   Mr. Hardiman seemed to be setting the stage for a
compromise on the Nasdaq plan for a two-year pilot program,
saying the NASD might propose shortening the pilot period in
return for less strict disclosure requirements.
   As previously reported, the program would involve predawn
trading of more than 300 Nasdaq issues, mainly stocks of U.S.
companies, including about 70 that are listed on the London
stock exchange. The trading would start at 3:30 a.m. Eastern
time in the U.S., which is five time zones behind London.
   Traders said the NASD plan could be threatened from both
sides of the Atlantic. They doubt that London traders and
customers would use the program if it required U.S.-type
disclosure. And they said that without such disclosure, it
might be illegal for certain U.S. fiduciaries to participate
-- mainly pension funds, which operate under the federal
Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
   Mr. Hardiman is hopeful that the SEC will see things the
NASD's way. "Commission members recognize the need for U.S.
markets to be competitive world-wide," he said. But he added
that because of the discussions with the SEC, "We may not get
started in September." And he indicated the program might be
dropped if the SEC rules against Nasdaq and dealers boycott
the system, saying rhetorically, "We can bring up the best
system in the world, but if no one commits their capital. . .
."
   Under the NASD plan, Nasdaq would collect from dealers all
price and volume data on each trade, storing it for
surveillance purposes. But rather than report individual
trade data on Nasdaq's ticker in the U.S., the NASD would
issue periodic quotes and volume information, said J. Lynton
Jones, the NASD's London-based executive director for Europe.
   Mr. Hardiman explained: "It's not like in the U.S., where
you have 50 dealers trading Apple Computer. In the U.K., you
have maybe two or three in most stocks, and people can
quickly sense what the position of a competitor is."
   Actually, the Nasdaq plan would offer London dealers
slower disclosure than that provided by the London exchange
for British stocks. The London exchange's ticker reports
British trades with a three-minute delay, except for large
trades, which are reported after 90 minutes. But there isn't
any organized market data system now for U.S. stocks traded
on the London exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Californians on Edge at the Mexican Border
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   SAN DIEGO -- More than a thousand citizens are to gather
on a mesa here at nightfall today to shine their automobile
headlights across the border to Mexico. It is the latest such
symbolic protest against what these Americans say is the U.S.
government's failure to enforce its immigration laws.
   Three years ago those statutes were tightened under the
so-called Simpson-Rodino act. Yet for months, a former San
Diego mayor and the widow of a Border Patrol officer have
been trying to embarrass U.S. authorities into beefing up the
boundary between two ostensibly friendly peoples. Muriel
Watson is the leader of the Light Up the Border campaign, and
Roger Hedgecock, who held the top job in the nation's
sixth-largest city from 1983 to 1985, is promoting her cause
on his popular radio talk show.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   They say that Simpson-Rodino turned out to be a hoax, that
the Border Patrol wasn't bolstered as promised, and that
aliens are pouring across as never before and bringing crime
to nearby communities. The Border Patrol acknowledges that,
after a dropoff in the wake of the new law, apprehensions
will rise 35% this fiscal year. It estimates that only a
third of those crossing are caught. Mr. Hedgecock, alluding
in an interview to this newspaper's editorial advocacy of
open immigration, said, "You have got your wish here in San
Diego."
   Not quite, as a daytime tour of the hilly border area near
the Pacific Ocean with Mrs. Watson shows. Watching dozens of
the mostly male masses huddle to begin a cat-and-mouse
routine with the Border Patrol that will culminate after
sundown, it is clear that crossing isn't yet easy. We see a
few dart through gaps in the coverage, running on into brush
toward the sewage-contaminated Tijuana River basin that still
separates them from population centers. Patrol trucks pass
along Dairy Mart Road, which parallels the border, every few
minutes, some carrying young men who didn't make it to the
promised land.
   Mrs. Watson intersperses dread at each attempted crossing
with pity for immigrants who are raped or robbed by smugglers
along their nighttime escape path or run over, as is
happening increasingly, by cars as they race across
Interstate 5 to evade an alien checkpoint along the route
north. Many more women and small children are coming now,
part of whole families planning to settle in the U.S. A
simple yellow sign warns motorists to watch for "people
crossing" the eight-lane expressway.
   By associating this mayhem with the immigration itself,
rather than with the laws that drive it underground, Mrs.
Watson repeats a mistake often made with regard to the
bloodshed that accompanies other forms of contraband. She
assumes that a more secure border would stop trouble before
it starts, as well as pressure the Mexican government, from
whose historically bad policies most of the aliens are
fleeing, into reforms that would alleviate the pressure.
(Some of the migrants actually are from Central America,
allegedly ushered through and out of Mexico with official
sanction.)
   An evocative article in the August issue of Harper's
Magazine describes the terrifying trek to opportunity from
the immigrant's view. On the U.S. side as well, Mr. Hedgecock
says, the always rough edges of life where rich fronts poor
have taken on new meanness. An upsurge in robberies and what
police call "car prowls" in the border areas -- plus drug
sales and shipments, according to the former mayor --
reflects a "growing criminal undercurrent" that he estimates
at 10% of the immigrant population. (Here it must be noted
that Mr. Hedgecock himself was forced from office when
convicted of a felony campaign-law violation; his benefactors
were running a Ponzi scheme.)
   Often the mere presence of groups of apparent illegals is
enough to put the locals on edge. In communities such as
Encinitas, north of San Diego, legal and extralegal roustings
of "campesinos" from their makeshift quarters in canyons and
their parking-lot "hiring halls" have brought protests from
poverty-law groups. On the other hand, citizens and
businesses (some of whom may be using the cheap labor)
complain of trash, human waste and intimidation from the
itinerants, and lament that the authorities duck enforcing
the law against them for fear of prompting civil-rights
litigation.
   More than 40,000 illegals in the San Diego area signed up
for full-fledged amnesty under Simpson-Rodino, and an
additional 150,000 at least passed through the area under a
section for migrant agricultural workers. Mrs. Watson and Mr.
Hedgecock favor a controlled-entry program to fill jobs for
which no American citizen is applying. This would seek to
combat the idleness of young laborers that they believe
fosters much of the crime. Yet it is predicated on a
bureaucratic arrangement contrary to what we know is key to
economic dynamism. It would also, of course, shield U.S.
workers whose services may be overpriced or of lower quality.
   In some ways, their idea is in line with the philosophy
behind proposed changes in the national immigration law. A
measure coming out of the House would hike the legal quota by
more than 50% but link the increase to filling demonstrated
voids in the labor force. (The Senate, and the Bush
administration, won't even grant that much.)
   Close to home, Light Up the Border has enjoyed mixed
success. It is accused of racism by some Mexican officials
and the local left, and shunned by much of the San Diego
establishment. Yet something appears to have led the Army
Corps of Engineers to enhance fencing and lighting. Still, no
one has paid a political price for resisting tighter
controls. (Mrs. Watson is opposing an entrenched Democrat for
a legislative seat, and is regarded as a gadfly.) Will the
electoral earth someday shake? Mr. Hedgecock, who still likes
the access-control idea -- quashed a few years ago -- of a
Big Ditch along the border, expresses frustration toward the
inertia of the governing elite he once was part of. "The
fed-up middle class doesn't care what's `politically
acceptable,'" he says.
   A movement like his is bound to attract elements that are
xenophobic or worse. But Mr. Hedgecock and Mrs. Watson, for
all a libertarian on the issue will disagree with them,
represent instead a good body of Americans who aren't haters
but feel besieged by forces that disturb their peace. In an
earlier day they would have been part of the Silent Majority
that "pays the taxes and obeys the laws." Their powerless
rage is not so different from what fueled tax, busing and
dirty-art revolts that conservative intellectuals have
embraced.
   So add a political paradox to the fiscal and cultural
effects that proponents of open immigration must be prepared
to deal with. Pondering these issues over some great ceviche
at the Mariscos Hector storefront cafe in close-by Chula
Vista after the tour of the front lines, one is left to
regret the status quo and to find unappetizing the short-run
alternatives.
   ---
   Mr. Ferguson is a Los Angeles-based member of the
Journal's editorial board.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   KPMG to Open Soviet Office
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- KPMG Peat Marwick, a major accounting and
consulting firm, said it will open an office in the Soviet
Union in the fall, as part of its expansion into Central and
Eastern Europe.
   Larry D. Horner, KPMG's chairman, said the Soviet office
will focus initially on counseling U.S. businesses about
opportunities in the U.S.S.R. Eventually, the company said,
it hopes to form a joint venture to provide tax and auditing
services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The KPMG move follows similar ventures by other U.S.
accounting firms in the Soviet Union. Last June, Arthur
Andersen &amp; Co. and Ernst &amp; Young formed ventures with Soviet
firms that allowed the companies to perform official audits
of U.S.-Soviet businesses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   THE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE short interest report printed
in yesterday's edition was a repeat of the list printed for
July. The August report appears {in} today's paper.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Silk Greenhouse Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   SGHI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SILK GREENHOUSE Inc. (Tampa, Fla.) -- B.B. Tuley, formerly
president and chief executive officer of Michaels Stores
Inc., was named president and chief executive officer of this
artificial-plant retailer. Mr. Tuley, 54 years old, succeeds
Jere Bradwell, 38, who remains chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Nuclear Energy Weapon
   ----
   By John O. Sillin
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Iraq's invasion of Kuwait has brought into sharp focus the
need by the U.S. to limit its dependence on Mideast oil. If
the U.S. is to continue electrifying the nontransportation
energy sector and insulating itself from the vagaries of
politics in the Persian Gulf and other hot spots, rapid
growth in applying nuclear energy, an economically and
environmentally sound alternative threatened by domestic
politics, must continue. This is particularly true if the
Clean Air Act is signed into law.
   Over the past 20 years, the increased use of nuclear
energy and coal in the production of electricity has
gradually weaned Americans from over-dependence on oil in the
non-transportation sector. (Unfortunately, the transportation
sector is liquid-fuel-dependent and has increased its
petroleum consumption by more than 20% since the first oil
embargo in 1973.) While total energy requirements have
increased 13.6% since 1973, oil consumption has decreased 40%
in homes and small businesses and 10% in factories -- despite
an increase in economic output of more than 50%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While petroleum use was declining in these sectors,
electricity usage increased by 67% and 33%, respectively.
This improved life styles, spurred economic growth, increased
energy efficiency, and decreased exposure to the Saddam
Husseins of the world.
   And where was this electricity coming from? Between 1973
and 1989, electricity production from nuclear power increased
525% and from coal 84%. Though petroleum usage by utilities
has recently turned up, it is still less than half its 1973
level.
   With economic growth in the 1990s generally forecast to
average between 2.5% and 3% a year, the Department of Energy,
Edison Electric Institute and other recognized authorities
are forecasting electricity demand to increase at similar
rates. At 3% growth, approximately 180,000 megawatts of new
generating capacity are required in addition to that which is
under construction and for which firm planning commitments
exist; if growth averages 2.5%, 140,000 megawatts are
required. This is equivalent to 140 to 180 large power
plants. These needs exclude the possibility that some 60,000
megawatts of aging fossil-fired plants may need to be
retired. If we are not to increase the use of oil, this
leaves coal, natural gas, and solar and nuclear power as
alternatives.
   The Clean Air bill (now in conference committee, versions
having passed the Senate and the House) would sharply cut
coal's ability to meet these increased power needs. According
to the act, sulfur dioxide emissions must be reduced by more
than half, to 8.9 million tons a year by the year 2001.
Nitrogen oxides are also to be halved, to 2.5 million tons a
year.
   The Edison Electric Institute estimates the annual cost of
compliance to be $5 billion to $7 billion. This will increase
electricity rates by about 6%; but in regions that burn high
sulfur coal, the increase could be as high as 20%. Some 250
existing power plants will be affected. Operating costs at
some plants could increase by as much as 50%, leading to
closure of the plants. Other plants will see degraded
operations and lower efficiency. Also, new clean coal power
production technologies may not be available until around the
year 2000. Thus, maintaining electricity output from coal
power plants will be a daunting task, much less increasing
production to meet growth in electricity use.
   Natural gas is the cleanest-burning fossil fuel, and
except for modest imports from Canada, it is produced
domestically. But, until now, natural gas has been used by
electric utilities in power plants that operate only during
periods of peak power demand. Only where natural gas could be
reliably accessed in large quantities, such as on the Gulf
Coast, is it used to meet day in, day out electricity needs.
In the rest of the country, obtaining a natural gas contract
that guarantees firm delivery at a stable price for periods
of 10 years or more is difficult to nearly impossible. Thus,
using natural gas to meet the bulk of the electricity needs
identified earlier entails significant business risks.
   These risks will probably increase, in part due to the
Clean Air Act. First, the demand for natural gas among
industrial customers will increase as they reduce their use
of dirtier-burning oil and coal. Second, natural gas and oil
prices are aligned because of their direct substitutability.
If oil prices continue their recent rise, gas prices will
follow. Third, there is a delivery problem because pipeline
capacity needs to be expanded, to move gas farther and to
deliver it to power plants.
   Solar, biomass and other renewable forms of energy are not
yet practical on the scale needed to satisfy the increased
electricity needs the U.S. will experience in the 1990s. In
1989 these forms of energy satisfied less than 0.5% of total
U.S. electricity requirements, and, according to Energy
Department figures, no growth in output has occurred since
1985.
   Therefore, by the process of elimination, the U.S. should
be headed down the path of increased use of nuclear power.
Last year, nuclear power plants generated 19.1% of U.S.
electricity requirements. If these plants had not been
operating, an additional 275 million tons of coal or 800
million barrels of oil would have been burned. Sulfur dioxide
and nitrogen oxides emissions would have been five million
tons and two million tons higher, respectively, and our oil
import bill would bave been some $5 billion higher.
   The U.S. has realized significant benefits from its
investment in nuclear energy. Cumulative cost savings from
operating nuclear vs. fossil power plants exceed $40 billion
since about 1970. Also, using cost assumptions contained in
the proposed Clean Air Act, the cumulative value of reduced
emissions resulting from nuclear plant operations is
estimated to be more than $80 billion. In addition, according
to the U.S. Council for Energy Awareness, since 1973 nuclear
energy has displaced four billion barrels of oil, saving $115
billion on our import bill.
   Other unquantified benefits include the fact that nuclear
power plants emit no particulates. They do not produce noise.
They do not require large numbers of wells or mines to
produce fuel or barges, pipelines or trains to transport it.
Also, nuclear fuel wastes can be stored at compact locations.
Given concerns over oil spills, refinery explosions and
despoiled lands, these are benefits worth acknowledging.
   But perhaps the largest benefit is that a vibrant nuclear
power program helps provide us with the will to deal with
thugs like Saddam Hussein. The U.S. has taken the lead in
organizing the world to thwart additional acts of aggression
and butchery by him. The leadership might have been less
forthcoming if our non-transportation sectors were dependent
on Persian Gulf oil.
   Unfortunately, just as a new wave of nuclear power plant
construction should be starting, it is stagnant. As a result,
oil consumption by the utilities, which had been declining
for years, recently turned up -- increasing by 32% since
1987.
   Much of the blame for this resides with short-sighted
federal and state regulatory policies. Of greatest immediacy,
state rate regulators must encourage, not thwart, utility
investment in nuclear energy (the Shoreham plant's experience
in New York state is perhaps the most egregious example);
federal regulators must stop dawdling with regard to
licensing new nuclear plant designs; and the Energy
Department must effectively manage the nuclear fuel waste
storage program, for which it is responsible (a program
funded by the nuclear utility industry).
   The commercial nuclear industry must also take agressive
action, including improving the industry's spotty operating
record. While all U.S. nuclear plants are safe and operations
improved dramatically in the 1980s, there are still plants
that under-perform, and they always make the headlines. The
nuclear industry must also be more aggressive in stating the
need for new plants and planning for their installation. In a
word, leadership is required.
   In the late 1970s, Carter administration policy called for
nuclear power to be "the energy option of last resort." This
unfortunate and inept policy still manifests itself in how
the nuclear industry is regulated and perceived. It must be
immediately reversed. Failure to do so risks undermining our
most fundamental political values.
   ---
   Mr. Sillin is with Management Analysis Co., a consulting
firm that works extensively for the power industry and the
Department of Energy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Conviction Without RICO
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Federal Judge Robert Aguilar was convicted yesterday of
illegally alerting a criminal target about a wiretap and then
lying about it to the FBI. Aside from this egregious
misconduct and crime by a judge, the lesson here for
prosecutors is: RICO does not pay. In March, an earlier jury
acquitted Judge Aguilar of one count and deadlocked on the
other counts, including one that would have declared that the
judge's actions somehow amounted to "racketeering."
Prosecutors dropped the RICO charge for this second trial,
with predictably better results.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Offers Some Advice
   For TV's Coverage of Iraq
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   KENNEBUNKPORT, Maine -- President Bush took a veiled swipe
at television newscasters who have traveled to Iraq in recent
days, all the while insisting that wasn't what he was doing.
   Responding to news media complaints about restrictions
that Saudi Arabia has placed on coverage, the president said
in his news conference here that "the more coverage the
better, as far as we're concerned. However, when people
travel to countries like Iraq and countries of that nature, I
hope the press coverage will be totally objective . . . I
hope the same tough questions are asked in every country, as
they are in this country, and I'm speaking of Iraq,
particularly."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some Bush loyalists have privately been angry at the first
American television correspondents to broadcast from Baghdad
after the Kuwait invasion -- ABC's Ted Koppel and CBS's Dan
Rather -- for what the loyalists regard as uncritical
coverage of the Iraqis. Mr. Bush may have been reflecting
some of those feelings as well.
   But when the president was asked specifically whether he
was criticizing the coverage, he insisted he wasn't. "I
learned long ago that you've got the loudest mike, and I just
am standing here, so I'm not criticizing," he said. "Don't be
so sensitive about it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Wednesday, August 22, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 20% high, 7 7/8% low, 10% near closing bid,
20% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for
overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.95% 15 to 44 days; 7.90% 45 to 59 days;
7.85% 60 to 89 days; 7.80% 90 to 119 days; 7.70% 120 to 149
days; 7.65% 150 to 179 days; 7.50% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.05%
30 days; 8% 60 days; 7.95% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.65% one month; 7.67% two
months; 7.69% three months; 7.91% six months; 8.05% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.10% one month; 8.10% three months;
8.15% six months.

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.96% 30 days; 7.95% 60 days; 7.90%
90 days; 7.88% 120 days; 7.85% 150 days; 7.82% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 3/16% - 8 1/16% one month; 8
1/4% - 8 1/8% two months; 8 1/4% - 8 1/8% three months; 8
1/4% - 8 1/8% four months; 8 1/4% - 8 1/8% five months; 8
1/4% - 8 1/8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 3/16% one month;
8 1/4% three months; 8 1/4% six months; 8 7/16% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, August 20, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.55% 13 weeks; 7.45% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.24%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.125%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.17%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.55%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.62%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Masco Industries Inc.
   Could Post a Charge
   In the Second Half
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MASX GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TAYLOR, Mich. -- Masco Industries Inc. said it could take
a pretax charge of as much as $20 million, or 15 cents a
share after taxes, against its second-half earnings, as a
result of General Motors Corp.'s scrapping a joint program to
develop the Chevrolet Beretta convertible.
   Masco Industries' Cars &amp; Concepts subsidiary had been
jointly working with GM's Chevrolet division to develop the
convertible Beretta. A GM spokesman said the planned 1990
model originally was to be introduced in May, when it was
used as the pace car in the Indianapolis 500. But because of
delays, the car still hasn't reached the market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Based on our analysis of the convertible market and the
size and price range, we concluded that a sufficient
opportunity to market the Beretta convertible profitably no
longer existed," the GM spokesman said. "For that reason we
have discontinued the project."
   Masco Industries said it "will pursue recovery of its
investment" in the project, but added that "recovery is
uncertain."
   Masco Industries, a manufacturer of custom engineering
components and specialty products, generates about 50% of its
annual revenue from auto-related contracts.
   Despite the possible write-off, the company "still expects
to be profitable in the second half," said Richard Manoogian,
Masco Industries' chairman and president.
   Masco's first-half net income was down 64% from the
year-earlier period, to $17.8 million, or 23 cents a share.
The decline was largely the result of a decline in U.S. car
and truck production, Mr. Manoogian said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   GTE Airfone Wins a Ban
   On Ex-Chief's Competition
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   GTE
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- An Illinois state trial-court judge blocked
the former chief executive officer of GTE Airfone Inc. from
competing with the company's airplane-based phone service.
   John D. Goeken, who founded Airfone and eventually sold it
to GTE Corp., has been fighting a legal battle with the
telecommunications giant to set up a rival service since
leaving Airfone in early 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Judge John W. Darrah of the Circuit Court of Du Page
County, Ill., ruled that Mr. Goeken was bound by a
non-compete agreement that he signed with GTE and its Airfone
subsidiary.
   William J. Gordon, vice president of regulatory affairs
for Goeken Group, said Mr. Goeken will appeal the ruling on
the ground that Airfone voided his original employment
contract by "usurping his authority as chief executive" when
he ran Airfone.
   "GTE wants everybody to think that Jack Goeken's on the
ropes," said Mr. Gordon. "That's the wrong message to be
sending to the airlines {since} GTE has a monopoly right now
with almost every airline under contract."
   GTE said in a statement that it was "pleased that Mr.
Goeken's non-competition covenant has been upheld . . . and
is not contrary to the public interest."
   Airfone had been operating under an experimental license
since 1984 and has installed air-to-ground phones in more
than 1,300 aircraft, or about a third of the U.S. airlines'
domestic fleet.
   In April, the Federal Communications Commission formally
established a service that enables airline passengers to make
phone calls during flights and opened the field to potential
competitors, including Mr. Goeken's planned In-Flight Phone
offering.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Local Video-Ad Business Goes on Blink
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI FW OMC
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Score one for Goliath.
   Last fall, it looked as though David had triumphed, when a
tiny Kansas company that places local ads on video rentals
won a legal battle with Paramount Pictures. Thanks to Video
Broadcasting Systems, Wichita, some Kansans who rented "She's
Having a Baby" saw ads for Bosley's Tire Service, while those
checking out "Flashdance" got a commercial for Ridgerunners
bar.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Paramount, which released both the videos, filed a suit
charging trademark infringement and falsely passing off
"shoddy" local ads as Paramount-approved, among other
transgressions. But in November, Paramount's wrist was
slapped by a Kansas federal court judge who denied its
request for a preliminary ban that would keep Video
Broadcasting from placing ads on Paramount releases. "This
court is frankly skeptical that viewers actually care whether
Paramount is the source or sponsor of the advertisement,"
chided the judge.
   For a while, it certainly looked as though Goliath had
been conquered. Not only Video Broadcasting, but other
similar start-up companies envisioned local pizza joints
everywhere running ads on "Batman" videos, or local discount
tire outlets strutting their stuff on videos of "Pretty
Woman." They crowed that the court victory opened the way to
massive expansion, even to franchising.
   But not so fast. While the court ruling still stands,
Video Broadcasting's business not only hasn't grown -- it has
all but gone bust. "Paramount carries a big stick," says
William Fry, the Wichita attorney representing Video
Broadcasting.
   He contends that local advertisers and retailers have been
scared off by the threat of a long, expensive legal battle
with deep-pocketed Paramount, which hasn't been shy about
throwing its considerable weight around. And, he says,
they're afraid that if they advertise on any other studio's
movies, more lawsuits will follow.
   "Store owners and advertisers don't make enough money to
stand up for their rights. Paramount has unlimited millions,"
Mr. Fry says. "Put yourself in the position of an advertiser
or store owner. They're afraid."
   Last week, after its own settlement talks with Paramount
fell through, Video Broadcasting bit back: It filed a
counterclaim against the studio alleging it is trying to put
Video Broadcasting out of business -- and asking for $105
million in damages.
   The suit charges Paramount with "malicious, intentional
interference" with Video Broadcasting's contracts with
advertisers. It alleges that Paramount made "threats" to
advertisers and retailers, saying, "We are going to keep you
in the suit and take it clear to the U.S. Supreme Court
unless you . . . agree to never allow advertisements to be
placed on Paramount-produced movies." And, it contends that
Paramount violated antitrust laws.
   A Paramount spokeswoman declined comment. And it isn't
clear whether Video Broadcasting will get anywhere with its
counterclaim, which comes a full year after Paramount first
filed its suit. But one thing is certain: Paramount's
sabre-rattling has all but killed the fledgling industry of
running local ads on national video releases.
   Video Broadcasting isn't the only company to find that
out. A similar start-up, Video Air Time of Midland, Texas,
was full of grand plans a year ago, before the Paramount suit
was filed. At the time, Video Air had placed ads for the
Raindance Car Wash on "Three Men and a Baby." Other big
releases sported ads from the Home Plate Diner, Mark Bevers
Chevrolet and the Midland Angels, a local baseball team. The
company set its sights nationwide, and was all set to sell
franchises at $25,000 a pop.
   Yet today, Video Air doesn't have any advertisers signed
up at all, and has abandoned for now its dreams of
franchising its concept. Advertisers and video stores simply
aren't interested as long as the legal threat remains on the
horizon, says Allen Frasier, president. "Until Paramount
stops screaming and yelling and threatening everybody," he
says, "its going to be a slow development.
   In Kansas, meanwhile, the ongoing lawsuit has forced Video
Broadcasting to close up shop altogether, at least for now,
its lawyer Mr. Fry says. "The company is basically doing no
business right now," he says. Its president "tried and tried
and tried. He went to some other towns, even, but two or
three good-sized orders canceled because of the lawsuit." He
adds, "We tried to avoid the war, but we couldn't."
   ---
   BBDO Wins Banks
                                                                                                       

   First Wachovia Corp., following a review that began last
December, named BBDO's Atlanta office to handle its $10
million to $12 million ad account.
   First Wachovia was served for the past 24 years by Long,
Haymes &amp; Carr, an agency based in Winston-Salem, N.C. In May,
the bank holding company selected Long Haymes, BBDO and
Hutcheson Shutze, an Atlanta shop, as finalists. Last month,
BBDO announced a plan to buy Hutcheson Schutze.
   Robert C. Copeland, First Wachovia's marketing director,
would only say that the decision "was based on an evaluation
of the finalists' presentations." First Wachovia has
headquarters in Winston-Salem and Atlanta.
   BBDO will now be responsible for creating ads for the
company's First Atlanta and Wachovia Bank &amp; Trust banks.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   TV AD REVENUES: Television Bureau of Advertising said
broadcast ad revenues in the first half rose 8% to $11
billion from $10.2 billion in the first six months of 1989.
The jump was attributed to healthy gains in the national
syndication and network categories. Spot television revenues
were also up. Revenues in the local category were relatively
flat, due to spending cuts in the automotive, retail and bank
segments, the bureau said.
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Chemical Manufacturers Association, a
Washington-based trade association representing industrial
chemical production makers, awarded its ad account to
Chiat/Day/Mojo, New York. Billings haven't been set.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Dofasco Inc.:
   Algoma Unit, in Bid to Sell
   Huron Group, Hires Adviser
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.DFS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Algoma Steel Corp. of Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, said it
hired Lancaster Financial Inc. to find a buyer for its Huron
Steel group of companies, a steel auto parts maker based in
Windsor, Ontario.
   Algoma, a unit of Dofasco Inc. of Hamilton, Ontario,
Canada's largest steelmaker, said Huron has about 325
employees and had sales last year of 55 million Canadian
dollars (US$48.3 million).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Algoma, which didn't disclose an asking price for Huron,
said the planned sale is consistent with the company's
strategy of focusing on its core steelmaking business. It
said proceeds would be used for general corporate purposes
and for reducing debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Wheat Stocks
   At July 31 Rose 30%
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian wheat stocks totaled 6,517,000 metric
tons at July 31, up 30% from 5,032,000 tons a year earlier,
Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   A metric ton of wheat is equal to about 36.74 bushels. The
stocks included 700,000 metric tons on farms, down from
787,000 tons a year earlier, and 5,817,000 tons at terminals
and other commercial locations, up from 4,245,000 tons a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Statistics Canada said stocks of wheat held on farms were
down from a year earlier, because of an increase in wheat
exports.
   Stocks of barley totaled 2,049,000 metric tons, down from
2,800,000 tons a year earlier, and canola, or rapeseed,
stocks totaled 739,000 tons, down from the year-earlier
1,149,000 tons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Choice Differences
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   If you want to know how much trouble American public
education is in, ask Albert Shanker, head of the American
Federation of Teachers. Last month, he bluntly told delegates
to the union's convention it was time to "talk honestly"
about the abysmal state of public education.
   "How bad are things?" he asked his fellow teachers.
"Ninety-five percent of the kids who go to college in the
U.S. would not be admitted to college anywhere else in the
world." If any teachers doubted this, Mr. Shanker asked them
to test their own 17-year-olds by having them explain a
newspaper editorial, write something or do a two-part math
problem. "Do it for yourself so you get a good picture of
where you are," he said. "You won't be moved to change unless
you believe things are really bad."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Shanker admitted teachers needed "to come up with some
kind of system we can put into our public schools to show
that something bad will happen if we don't do a good job, and
something good will happen if we do." But then he repeated
his opposition to the one device that would foster
competition in education -- choice. He called instead for
"restructuring" the public schools.
   It is perhaps too much to expect Mr. Shanker to endorse
vouchers or tax-credit plans that may disrupt the job
security of his members, but parents have looked at what the
30% increase in real spending on education since 1981 has
bought them and increasingly are deciding that choice, not
more money, is the answer.
   It seems there is growing support among everyone except
public-school careerists for the idea of choice. So it's now
important to start sorting out choice plans that can work
from those that paper over the problem.
   One rule of thumb in assessing the potential value of a
choice plan is, how loudly do the defenders of the status quo
-- union leaders and bureaucrats -- condemm it? On that
basis, Wisconsin state legislator Polly Williams takes the
honors. Next month her voucher plan will pay up to $2,500
each to allow hundreds of poor Milwaukee students to attend
private nonsectarian schools.
   Herbert Grover, Wisconsin's Schools Superintendent, has
waged a legal war against the Williams plan. This month, he
accused Mrs. Williams of being "used" by business interests
who want to privatize education.
   Mrs. Williams says it is rather the Milwaukee
public-school bureaucracy that has "used" her constituents'
money to build an educational empire that fails to teach
basic skills. Busloads of black parents recently went to the
state capital in Madison to show Mr. Grover who really
supports Polly Williams. A court has declared the voucher
plan constitutional, and on Monday a higher court denied a
request for an injunction against it.
   The situation is different in Detroit. There, voters
elected a new school board in 1988 that promised educational
choice. But board members have tired of hand-to-hand combat
with the resisting unions, and have shelved real choice in
favor of allowing parent-teacher committees some say over
local school policy. The Detroit News reports that even this
plan has met with such opposition from principals that only
six out of some 250 schools are involved. Black parents
grumble they may have to elect a new board to secure real
change.
   Somewhere between Milwaukee's boldness and Detroit's
passivity is New York state, which has proposed a series of
conventional reforms to make schools more accountable to
parents. But buried among them is a bold proposal "to reward
schools for success and mete out consequences for failure."
Schools that failed to meet standards would be
"de-registered" and closed. Their students would then be
allowed to use vouchers to attend other public or nonpublic
schools.
   Teacher unions fiercely oppose this idea, calling it a
backdoor effort to undermine the public schools. But State
Education Commissioner Thomas Sobol says public schools
should be forced to compete if they cannot perform at a
minimal level.
   Opponents of both the New York plan and Mrs. Williams say
choice is favored by elitists and the rich, ignoring polls
that show blacks and the poor favor it more than the middle
class, whose schools often still work. Both sides will be
keenly watching the November elections in liberal Oregon,
where an educational-choice initiative is on the ballot. It
would allow students to attend public schools outside their
area and provide tax credits for those wishing to go to
private schools. Poor people who paid no state income tax
would get a voucher of up to $2,500 a year to allow them to
participate.
   Educational choice is the key to solving the problems that
Mr. Shanker and other educators now admit exist. It would
inject real opportunity into America's depressed inner
cities. That's why the most fervent proponents of genuine
choice today are poor and minority parents who see
competition as the only way to secure a quality education for
their kids.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Giving a Hand:
   Robert Beck Has Been Driving Force
   In Mothers Against Drunk Driving
   ----
   By John A. Conway
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<LP>
   {From time to time in this column, The Wall Street Journal
will report on efforts by people in business to help others
in need.}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   DALLAS BUSINESSMAN ROBERT L. BECK is a man of conviction.
After his 23-year-old son was killed by a drunken driver in
1982, he took five years out of his life to work full time as
the unpaid chairman and chief executive of Mothers Against
Drunk Driving, founded in 1980 by a California woman who had
lost a child to the same deadly mixture of automobiles and
alcohol.
   Local MADD members had rallied to the Becks' support after
their tragedy and he wanted to do something in return. A New
Jersey native, he had come to Dallas as a group vice
president of National Gypsum, where he had started as general
counsel. After the company's 1976 move to Texas, in 1986 the
company was sold to a management group, with financial help
from a French building-materials company, for $1.7 billion.
Mr. Beck, already a MADD director, then volunteered to become
the nonprofit organization's unpaid, full-time chief
executive. Money from the buy-out, he and his wife decided,
would let them live without his Gypsum salary.
   When he took on the new job, the 56-year-old executive
recalls, he was told he would "never make a difference." He
did. In 1984, MADD had 300,000 members. Last year it had 1.8
million in almost 400 chapters in the U.S. and overseas and
the group's income in contributions totaled $42.5 million.
The fight against drunk drivers, Mr. Beck points out, isn't
limited to those who have suffered. Only 40% of his members
are from families that have been directly involved in
drunk-driving tragedies; the other 60% are what Mr. Beck
calls "interested citizens."
   All he did, Mr. Beck says, was graft corporate principles
onto a nonprofit organization. The rules came right out of
any MBA notebook -- rigid cost controls, budgets, strategic
planning, marketing.
   What MADD markets, Mr. Beck says, is public awareness and
education. Some of its devices are standard. A national
poster and essay contest last year drew 45,000 entries;
another campaign had volunteers distribute 30 million red
ribbons to be tied to automobiles as a signal that their
drivers were not drinking and driving.
   More significant are MADD's legislative scores,
particularly when the organization, as Mr. Beck notes, does
no actual lobbying. As a nonprofit educational group, it is
forbidden by law to lobby but that prohibition doesn't apply
to members acting as individual citizens. Those members, for
example, were prime movers in promoting the 1984 federal law
that encouraged states to raise the legal drinking age to 21.
MADD also pushed a 1988 act to offer highway-fund incentives
to promote state anti-drunk-driving laws and to require
warnings against drunk driving on alcoholic beverage
containers.
   Television has been one of Mr. Beck's major marketing
channels. Working with Harvard Medical School, he got MADD
involved in helping TV scriptwriters to work direct messages
into their shows promoting designated (i.e. non-drinking)
drivers for partygoers. Broadcasters had argued that
advertisers would shun any thing that smacked of a message
but when sponsors were told, Mr. Beck says, "they wanted in."
Two top-rated shows that included the designated-driver idea
in scripts are "Cheers" and "L.A. Law."
   Mr. Beck has involved MADD in a more prickly problem --
persuading beer and wine advertisers not to use shows with
heavy percentages of viewers under 21. Beer is the top drink
for teen-agers and most of it is consumed in automobiles,
according to studies by the National Parents Resource
Institute. MADD wants TV producers to find other sponsors for
youth-directed shows.
   Mr. Beck is now stepping out of his full-time MADD job. He
has the controls he wanted. The 50 people in the Dallas
headquarters include full-time paid managers -- an executive
director, a financial officer and a professional fund-raiser.
So he is returning to his first career, the law, as executive
director of Hughes &amp; Luce. "I can still practice law," he
says, "but I spend 99% of my time managing." A new chairman,
a Baton Rouge physician (who lost a brother-in-law in a
drunk-driving crash) will be taking over. Mr. Beck will stay
for a while as a director. And he can certainly leave with
the conviction that he did make a difference.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   HEALTH COSTS
   ----
   By Pamela J. Podger
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Sleuth Systems Uncover
   Fraud-Ridden Claims
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   INSURERS are trying to beat high-technology cheaters at
their own game by scrutinizing doctors' computer billing more
closely and by cranking up security on their own databases.
   Fraud bamboozled government and private insurers of about
$60 billion last year, or about 10% of the $600 billion spent
on health care, says the National Health Care Anti-Fraud
Association in Washington, D.C.
   A variety of cheaters bilk insurers by culling information
from office computers, such as details about patients and
their insurance coverage, and then by padding bills with
false visits, lab tests or X-rays. The potential for such
crimes is growing, too, as more insurers adopt "paperless"
claims, using completely electronic systems.
   To ward off fraud, systems such as the one dubbed Robocop
at Aetna Life Insurance verify claims and police databases.
For example, the computer crosschecks claimant data to flag
such frauds as a single procedure leading to several claims
in different relatives' names.
   About 40% of insurers have launched anti-fraud programs in
the past three years, says a survey by the Health Insurance
Association, a Washington trade group. Members investigated
about 19,600 cases in 1989, up 56% since 1987, saving $48
million.
   Culprits include doctors, patients, employees and outside
hackers. Everyone, says Richard Ekfelt, director of the
anti-fraud group, "from welfare clinics to Beverly Hills
psychiatrists."
   About 3% of the nation's doctors "routinely" commit fraud,
claim the insurers. The American Medical Association says it
has become more "militant," throwing out 39 physicians last
year, the first such expulsions. "There will be more to
come," promises President C. John Tupper.

   Government Isn't Paying
   Its Tab, Firms Complain
                                                                                                       

   AS health-care costs continue to soar, companies and
hospitals complain that Uncle Sam isn't paying his fair
share. But whether they'll push the government to act is
another story.
   Of every dollar paid by businesses for health care, 11
cents results from Medicare and Medicaid shortfalls, charges
the American Hospital Association in Chicago. The group says
private payers shouldered about $2 billion in Medicare and $3
billion in Medicaid shortfalls last year.
   The business community is beginning to do "low-key"
lobbying, says a U.S. Chamber of Commerce spokesman. But
there is "institutional gridlock," he warns, among groups
with different interests, and businesses worry about pushing
the U.S. too hard, for fear taxes will go up.
   Still, there's plenty of incentive for action. Employers
saw per-employee health-care costs climb 67% between 1986 and
1989, says Foster Higgins, a consulting firm. More than 43%
of hospitals had operating losses in 1988, and that trend
continues, says the Healthcare Financial Management
Association, Westchester, Ill.
   The government, meanwhile, begs to differ. The Health Care
Financing Administration, the agency that establishes
reimbursement rates, says payments are adequate. "We have no
data to indicate" anyone else is picking up the tab, says a
spokesman.
                                                                                                       

   Sometimes Less Is More
   In Hospital Storerooms
                                                                                                       

   MEDICAL CENTERS are reaping surprising savings from
"stockless inventories" in the latest twist on the Japanese
concept of just-in-time delivery.
   In stockless systems, vendors bring ready-to-use supplies
right to closets, nurses' stations and operating rooms.
Hospitals keep just a 24-hour reserve, instead of enormous
warehouses, and orders are sent electronically to one or two
vendors, who deliver 95% of supplies in 12 to 18 hours.
   By contrast, the typical 500-bed facility may spend about
$850,000 a year on supplies, but hoard as much as six times
that amount of inventory throughout the hospital. And they
often have hundreds of vendors making deliveries.
   Hospitals find that treating inventory problems yields a
whole range of savings. "It's like the level of water in a
lake," says Ned L. Gerber, health-care consultant at Coopers
&amp; Lybrand in Chicago. "As the inventory level comes down, all
of the junk and problems that had sunk to the bottom are
exposed."
   With an investment of about $250,000 in computer support,
Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tenn.,
slashed inventory by about $2.8 million and operating costs
by about $270,000 annually, including cutting 27 supply jobs.
An 18,000-square-foot warehouse formerly used for central
supplies is now earmarked for neurology and pulmonary
diagnostic centers.
   Still, just 30 to 60 hospitals in the U.S. now use some
form of stockless inventory. Analysts say only one-third of
the nation's 6,000 hospitals can make the switch. Other
hospitals find their options limited if they are too far from
major distribution centers, don't have sophisticated
computers or can't find the right vendors.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   THE INSURANCE industry wants to put more medical alert
bracelets and necklaces on corporate employees. The Million
Dollar Roundtable, a trade group of agents, gave a $30,000
grant to Medic Alert, a nonprofit group that supplies warning
accessories. They clue emergency staff to allergies, rare
blood types, heart disease and other conditions that affect
one in four employees. . . . A survey showed that 73% of top
executives think drug abuse, acquired immune deficiency
syndrome and aging will push up health-care costs at least
20% each year until 1993, says Noble Lowndes, an East Orange,
N.J., benefits firm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Nixdorf Prepares for Siemens Merger
   ---
   Computer Firm Braces to
   Enter the Big Leagues
   ----
   By Richard L. Hudson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   G.SIE G.NIX DEC HWP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PADERBORN, West Germany -- With a thud, the chief
executive of Nixdorf Computer AG lays a bulging white
notebook on his desk.
   It contains blueprints for one of the world computer
industry's biggest mergers: the scheduled Oct. 1 union of
West Germany's two largest computer makers, Nixdorf and the
Data and Information Systems division of electronics giant
Siemens AG.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The executive, Horst Nasko, flips through the pages, each
one a complex diagram of who will report to whom in the
merged organization's 27 geographical regions and 10 product
and service divisions. Planning the merger, first announced
Jan. 10, has occupied more than 100 planning committees.
"There's a lot of overtime in that book," Mr. Nasko says. But
he thinks it well worth the cost and effort: "It is better
that we be prepared."
   There is good reason for the slow, careful preparation.
The combination, to be voted on today by Nixdorf shareholders
here, is slated to begin in perilous times with a mission to
become the first European computer company to play in the big
leagues of the world market against the industry's
technological and financial leaders from the U.S. and Japan.
   "Of all the European companies, the only one that could
feasibly become a strong competitor with European technology
would be Siemens-Nixdorf," says Martin Hingley, a European
industry analyst at International Data Corp., a Framingham,
Mass., market-research firm.
   Other Europeans have aspired to be world-wide competitors.
But each has stumbled on some combination of weak finance,
insufficient economies of scale, bad strategy or uneven
technology. On the Continent, major European manufacturers
never managed more than a 25% market share during the 1980s
-- and they are losing even that now. France's Groupe Bull,
the closest European rival to Siemens and Nixdorf, and N.V.
Philips of the Netherlands appear likely to spend months
bailing red ink. Italy's Ing. C. Olivetti &amp; Co. is
desperately trying to halt a three-year sales slump. And last
month, Britain's International Computers Ltd. threw in the
towel and agreed to merge with Japan's Fujitsu Ltd.
   But Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG, or SNI as the
merged business is to be called, has plenty going for it. It
will be big: Had it been merged last year, the combined
businesses would have ranked second in the European computer
market after International Business Machines Corp. of the
U.S., and eighth in the world market. It will have an
impregnable home base in Germany, where it leads IBM in
several market segments. It will have deep pockets, as a
78%-owned affiliate of cash-rich Siemens. And its planned
product strategy seems on target: to sell specialized
software and services -- "solutions" in computer-marketing
jargon -- that use standardized computer hardware as much as
possible.
   Yet the pitfalls are many. The company risks ending up as
a strong player in the European market but an also-ran in the
rest of the world. It will be dependent on other
manufacturers for some of its technology; for instance,
Japan's Fujitsu supplies its top-of-the-line mainframe
computers. It may also be meditating too much on its own
navel: So preoccupied do Siemens-Nixdorf officials appear
with the technicalities of their own merger, that they don't
appear interested in hunting other mergers to grow, says
industry analyst Peter Knox of Salomon Brothers Inc. "I would
expect the {Siemens-Nixdorf} merger process to take some
time, and it's going to stretch their management
capabilities," he says.
   And the merged company will have to spend a lot of time
simply repairing Nixdorf's tattered business. The Siemens
data business is profitable, with net income for the year
ended Sept. 30 of about 250 million marks ($159.9 million) on
revenue of 5.4 billion marks, but Nixdorf's losses in
calendar 1989 swelled to 1.07 billion marks on revenue of
5.26 billion marks.
   This year has been better for both companies: Siemens'
data division expects revenue growth of at least 20%, while
Mr. Nasko says Nixdorf's losses are diminishing, and its
orders at the end of July were only 2% behind year-earlier
levels.
   But the biggest challenge of all will be combining the
widely disparate cultures of entrepreneurial Nixdorf and
bureaucratic Siemens. "In the first couple of months there
will be frictions -- this is normal," concedes Albrecht
Doehler, an executive director of the Siemens data division.
   Since its 1958 founding in this north German town of
80,000, Nixdorf traded on a carefully crafted image as
leaner, faster and smarter than its two main competitors in
Germany, IBM and Siemens. Heinz Nixdorf, who died in 1987,
delighted in ridiculing the big boys: He was once quoted as
calling IBM a cow that ought to have been slaughtered long
ago. He focused on marketing, and with trendy sales
strategies Nixdorf posted nearly 20 consecutive years of
growth.
   Siemens' computer division, by contrast, prided itself on
its technology and reliability as part of Europe's biggest
and richest electronics group. Everything it does is big. In
contrast to Nixdorf's emphasis on minicomputers, Siemens has
spent more than one billion marks to develop its own
mainframe range to compete with IBM's core business in
Germany.
   But Nixdorf's rapid decline following its founder's death
forced the merger. Nixdorf misjudged market trends. And its
former, free-wheeling management style let costs balloon.
Salesmen, for instance, had too much freedom to negotiate
steep discounts with customers, says Nixdorf's Mr. Nasko. As
losses mounted, the list of potential buyers for Nixdorf
included Digital Equipment Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Inc. of
the U.S. But Siemens won, Mr. Nasko says, partly because it
promised a complete merger of both businesses, rather than a
takeover putting Siemens managers at the top.
   But feelings among Nixdorf employees remain mixed.
"Siemens is good, it's stable," says one of Nixdorf's
longest-serving employees, a bodyguard and driver to the late
Mr. Nixdorf. But how does he feel about the company losing
its independence? With one finger, he traces a teartrack down
his right cheek.
   ---
          The Top Computer Companies in Europe in 1989
                                                                                                       

   Share of European information technology revenues
                                                                                                       

 IBM (U.S.)                                 20.1%
 Siemens/Nixdorf (West Germany)              7.7%
 Digital Equipment (U.S.)                    4.5%
 Olivetti (Italy)                            3.9%
 Bull (France)                               3.3%
 Hewlett-Packard (U.S.)                      3.3%
 Unisys (U.S.)                               2.6%
 Philips (Netherlands)                       2.4%
 International Computers Ltd. (Britain)      1.8%
 NCR (U.S.)                                  1.7%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Dataquest
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   CBS News
   Shake-Up
   Is Expected
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CBS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A management shake-up at CBS News appears
imminent and may ultimately result in the ouster of news
division President David W. Burke after two tumultuous years
of clashes with top management and a deepening ratings slide
for CBS's nightly newscast.
   Two individuals at CBS Inc. said that the shake-up could
be announced as early as today, and that at the very least,
it could undercut the autonomy of the fiercely independent
news executive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The individuals, who declined to be named, said top
management is discussing naming Eric Ober, the popular
president of the CBS-owned stations division and a former CBS
News vice president, to a position at the news division that
doesn't now exist, making him second in command behind Mr.
Burke.
   Mr. Burke and Mr. Ober didn't return telephone calls
seeking comment, and a CBS spokeswoman declined to comment.
But several people inside CBS said Mr. Burke lately has
become embroiled in sometimes bitter disputes with CBS
President Laurence A. Tisch and his top lieutenant, Jay
Kriegel, the Tisch aide who personally recruited Mr. Burke
from ABC News two years ago.
   While it isn't clear whether Mr. Burke's departure is
imminent, one person at CBS replied that the news president
was indeed "on the ropes" when he was asked late yesterday
whether Mr. Burke's tenure was in doubt.
   The confrontations between Mr. Burke and his superiors
apparently stem in part from his fierce independence as
president of the news division. Some observers said he
rejected the involvement even of his predecessor and direct
boss, CBS Broadcast Group President Howard Stringer.
   Mr. Burke arrived at CBS News in August 1988 as an
outsider, having spent 11 years at ABC News, a unit of
Capital Cities/ABC Inc., where he was the No. 2 executive to
ABC News President Roone Arledge. The seventh CBS News
president since 1980, he has been controversial almost since
the beginning of his tenure.
   Soon after taking over the troubled division, which had
been wracked by budget cuts and headline-making internal
squabbling, Mr. Burke clamped down on contacts with the press
and virtually silenced leaks from malcontents. Early on, he
also fired two close associates of CBS anchorman Dan Rather,
David Buksbaum and Joan Richman. And he quickly made it
clear, insiders said, that his popular predecessor, Mr.
Stringer, was no longer welcome at the CBS Broadcast Center,
the former dairy barn that's the headquarters of CBS News on
West 57th Street here.
   The most public setback for Mr. Burke occurred in February
when he suspended Andy Rooney, the "60 Minutes" humorist,
after remarks appeared in a magazine attributed to Mr. Rooney
that were derogatory toward blacks and homosexuals. After
strong and relentless protests from people within CBS News,
including Don Hewitt, executive producer of "60 Minutes," and
correspondent Mike Wallace, and a slide in the program's
ratings, Mr. Burke reluctantly reinstated Mr. Rooney after
only one month of the three-month suspension.
   Despite that highly publicized incident, Mr. Burke is
credited at CBS News with rejuvenating the network's
coverage. For instance, CBS News was considered the most
aggressive in covering last year's student uprising in China.
In addition, Mr. Rather has gotten out of the studio more
frequently to report from the scene of major stories.
   However, the "CBS Evening News," which once dominated the
A.C. Nielsen Co. ratings, has slipped into second place
behind "ABC World News Tonight with Peter Jennings" and is
barely ahead of "NBC Nightly News with Tom Brokaw." ABC News
has been No. 1 for the past 33 weeks.
   Not only has the network's showcase newscast lost ratings
during Mr. Burke's tenure, but two of the three prime-time
series produced by CBS News have had setbacks as well. "48
Hours," a moderate ratings success, is going to be moved from
Thursday at 8 p.m. EDT to Saturday at 10 p.m. next month, the
prime-time period with the smallest potential audience. Also,
"Saturday Night with Connie Chung" was embroiled in
controversy because it reenacted actual news events, a
practice that was ultimately abandoned.
   That show was scheduled to be replaced by "Face to Face
with Connie Chung," which was going to use a heavy diet of
celebrity interviews and run on Mondays at 10 p.m., one of
the best spots on the otherwise lackluster CBS schedule.
However, the program was rescheduled to become a series of
specials, instead of a regular prime-time series after Ms.
Chung said she wanted a lighter work load in order to try to
have a baby. The unexpected move was a severe financial
setback for CBS News, which could have made millions of
dollars in advertising revenue from the show.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AMR's Eagle Unit Places
   Order for ATR Airplanes
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR I.AER F.ASP
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- AMR Eagle, the regional carrier
division of AMR Corp., said it agreed to buy 25 ATR turboprop
aircraft and take options for an additional 75, in a deal
that could be valued at as much as $800 million.
   AMR, parent of American Airlines, said the order also
included the leasing of an additional 16 planes made by ATR,
a joint venture of Aeritalia S.p.A. of Italy and Aerospatiale
S.A. of France.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AMR Eagle consists of six carriers that fly to smaller
cities in the U.S. and feed passenger traffic into the larger
system of American Airlines. AMR Eagle has 211 planes, and
with the ATR order, expects its fleet to increase by 70
planes next year.
   The ATR transaction, which had been expected, consists of
orders for 16 ATR-42s and options on an additional 25, and
orders for nine Super ATRs and options on 50 more of the
planes. The ATR-42 is a 46-passenger aircraft, and the Super
ATR is a stretch version that seats 64. The first of the
planes on order are to be delivered in March, in a schedule
that will stretch into 1996.
   In Rome, Aeritalia valued the AMR order at $1 billion, and
said this is the biggest order it has received for its
planes. An AMR Eagle spokesman declined to comment on the
value of the contract. But industry analysts said the $1
billion figure is on the high side. As the largest U.S.
carrier, AMR typically negotiates hefty discounts for itself,
particularly on large aircraft orders such as this one.
   This marks AMR Eagle's second large order for planes this
month. Earlier, it ordered 35 Jetstream Super 31s made by
British Aerospace PLC and optioned 15 more. It also took 50
options on Jetstream 41s.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Scott &amp; Stringfellow's Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SCOT
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   RICHMOND, Va. -- Scott &amp; Stringfellow Financial Inc.
received authorization from its board to repurchase an
additional 100,000 common shares, increasing the company's
stock buy-back program to 400,000 shares.
   The shares will be bought in the open market from time to
time. Currently, the brokerage firm has 1,955,792 common
shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUSH CALLED UP reservists to bolster the military buildup
in the Persian Gulf.
   The president wouldn't say how many reservists will be
activated, but a call-up of 40,000 is likely. He also said
the U.S. may wait a few days before ordering ships to stop
more vessels carrying Iraqi goods, and implied the Soviets
want the U.N. to be given more time to approve military
action for enforcing trade sanctions. In Moscow, officials
said Soviet military consultants are still training Iraqi
soldiers. Meanwhile, Baghdad claimed that planes flying in
from Saudi Arabia penetrated Iraqi airspace, but it was
unclear if the alleged incursion was into Iraq or Kuwait. A
Japanese Foreign Ministry official said Tokyo will consider
aid requests from Persian Gulf countries hurt by the
international blockade of Iraq.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. Army paratroopers are scheduled to hold today what is
believed to be the largest exercise for ground troops since
American forces arrived in Saudi Arabia at the beginning of
the month.
   ---
   EAST GERMANY'S PARLIAMENT SET Oct. 3 as the date for
unification.
   After a tense late-night emergency session, the lawmakers
found the requisite two-thirds majority in the 400-seat
Volkskammer to fix the date for unity with West Germany. The
294-62 vote ended weeks of bickering that has split the
country's coalition government. "This is a truly historical
event," Parliament President Bergmann-Pohl said.
   The date for German unification is entirely up to East
Germany and the Volkskammer's decision requires no
ratification from Bonn.
   ---
   The death toll rose to over 500 in 10 days of street
clashes in South African black townships near Johannesburg,
police said, as the violence spread to Vosloorus and Kagiso
townships. The fighting pits Zulus loyal to the conservative
Inkatha movement against Xhosas, most of them supporters of
the African National Congress.
   ---
   A U.S. district court judge was convicted of two
corruption charges, disclosing a wiretap to an ex-mobster and
lying to the FBI in order to obstruct a grand jury probe. The
judge, Robert Aguilar of San Jose, Calif., faces probable
impeachment and removal from office by Congress if either
count is upheld on appeal.
   ---
   Soviet troops expelled hundreds of Armenian guerrilla
fighters from a border region of the neighboring republic of
Azerbaijan, where they had been attacking villages and
battling soldiers sent by Moscow to intervene in a two-year
conflict over the territory of Nagorno-Karabakh.
   ---
   An ex-Thornburgh aide pleaded innocent to drug-related
charges resulting from a probe of alleged drug use by
officials. Henry Barr, who was a special assistant to the
U.S. attorney general, is apparently the highest-ranking
present or former federal official to face drug charges,
according to the prosecutor handling the Pennsylvania case.
   ---
   The Philippine army brought an extra battalion into Manila
to bolster government forces as a series of bombings
increased fears of a coup attempt against Aquino. Three bombs
rocked the capital Tuesday night and early yesterday.
   ---
   NASA engineers lost touch with the Venus-orbiting Magellan
spacecraft for the second time in five days, but later
restored steady radio contact. The latest problem in the $744
million mission to map Venus came less than eight hours after
officials released Magellan's first pictures of the planet.
   ---
   Colombian police said they arrested the Medellin cocaine
cartel's head of assassins. The suspect, Humberto de Jesus
Parra Salinas, is alleged to command up to 100 gangs of hired
gunmen who are paid to kill enemies of the drug traffickers.
   ---
   Britain called for frequent, short-notice inspections of
nuclear installations worldwide. The proposal was made at a
Geneva meeting of delegates from over 100 nations who are
reviewing the 20-year-old Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
   ---
   A U.S. policy shift has drawn China into Cambodian peace
efforts, Vietnam's vice minister of foreign affairs, Tran
Quang Co, said. The American decision to drop support for
guerrillas fighting the Phnom Penh regime has isolated China,
which backs the Khmer Rouge rebels, he said, prompting
discussions between Beijing and Hanoi.
   ---
   Sri Lankan troops landed on rebel-held Jaffna Peninsula by
ship and began advancing on a government fort under siege by
the insurgents for the past 10 weeks, officials said. Jaffna
is the headquarters of the main Tamil rebel group fighting
for independence from the ethnic Sinhalese-dominated
government in the Indian Ocean island.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Norsk Data Breaks Even
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   NORKZ
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Norsk Data AS said it broke even in this
year's first half, a surprisingly early recovery from huge
losses the previous two years.
   The Oslo-based computer concern reported pretax profit of
one million Norwegian kroner ($165,000) for this year's first
six months, compared with a loss of 194 million kroner a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales climbed 10% to 1.22 billion kroner from 1.1 billion
kroner.
   Orders were flat in the first six months, but an 8%
decline in operating costs helped produce a swing in
operating profit to 10 million kroner, compared with a
year-earlier operating loss of 214 million kroner.
   Norsk Data didn't give a forecast for the full year. But
Chief Executive Officer Erik Engebretsen said sales gains for
various new products in several key markets showed the
company was gradually regaining confidence of customers. "It
shows that the painful cost-cutting measures taken last year
are working," Mr. Engebretsen said.
   By laying off 700 employees, or 21% of its work force
during the past 12 months, Norsk Data lowered its break-even
level to a level corresponding to annual sales of 2.5 billion
kroner this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Crisis in Mideast Unlikely to Break Americans
   Of Their Deep-Rooted Addiction to Imported Oil
   ----
   By Barbara Rosewicz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- For U.S. energy watchdogs, Saddam Hussein is
the best thing to happen in more than a decade.
   Once again, the nation's addiction to foreign oil is at
center stage. The battered nuclear power industry hopes for a
revival. Environmental groups call for more conservation,
more mass transit, and new provisions forcing auto companies
to boost gasoline mileage. Sen. David Boren of Oklahoma wants
tax incentives for oil producers; Sens. Frank Murkowski and
Ted Stevens of Alaska want to drill in the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge. The Florida Solar Energy Industries
Association has even nominated Saddam Hussein for its "Solar
Man of the Year Award."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But what will come of this new burst of oil-saving
activism? Unfortunately, not much.
   The latest effort to wean the U.S. from imported oil is
almost certain to fail, due to powerful political currents
running against it. An environmental movement that's stronger
than ever, a worsening budget deficit, a White House
dominated by a free-market ideology, and intense regional
disputes in Congress will all conspire to block any
broad-based effort to reduce the nation's need for foreign
oil. And in the end, Americans will demonstrate once again
their chronic unwillingness to suffer short-term pain for
long-term gain.
   "One has to be skeptical on the basis of past history"
that America will now fix its energy problems, says James
Schlesinger, President Carter's energy secretary. "This is a
society that has powerful antibodies against a consistent and
persistent energy policy."
   Barring a catastrophic new loss of oil reserves from the
Mideast, the risk is that U.S. dependence on foreign oil will
climb from 50% today to 75% by the end of the decade.
   A new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll illustrates the
American public's ambivalence. Despite the crisis in the
Middle East, 57% of the public still oppose efforts to
construct more nuclear power plants. And 62% oppose taxing
gasoline to encourage conservation. On the question of
loosening restrictions on offshore oil drilling, public
opinion is more divided, with 48% in favor and 42% opposed.
   For now, the greatest obstacle to most efforts to cut
energy dependence is the environmental movement.
Environmentalists have already shown they can close down such
substitutes for foreign oil as the Shoreham nuclear power
plant in Long Island, N.Y., and offshore oil drilling in
California and Florida. In a bow to their political clout,
President Bush has tied his own hands by putting several
large offshore lease areas off-limits for 10 years.
   Meanwhile, the White House is resisting proposals to
mandate energy savings. Such measures are popular in the
abstract -- The Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll shows that
80% of voters favor "tougher conservation measures." But when
it comes down to particulars, such as forcing car makers to
turn out more fuel-efficient cars, the politics get more
difficult. When the department finally got approval for its
modest list of energy-saving ideas recently, President Bush
kept his distance, leaving the department to unveil the plan
on its own.
   Asked at his news conference yesterday in Kennebunkport,
Maine, why he hadn't called on the American people to
conserve energy, Mr. Bush quickly responded: "I call upon
Americans to conserve." But the president added that,
although it was "a good time to conserve," he didn't want to
panic people and didn't believe the circumstances required
people to cancel vacation plans or take other drastic steps.
Indeed, Mr. Bush stated that he didn't intend to curtail use
of his speedboat during his holiday in Maine.
   With a Texan at the helm, the White House is more willing
to contemplate new tax breaks to spur the domestic oil
industry. But such measures run smack into another obstacle:
a burgeoning budget deficit. With higher oil prices,
increased defense spending and slower growth pushing that
deficit ever higher, any proposal that increases spending or
drains revenue is likely to be a loser.
   And if that's not enough to kill energy-saving ideas,
Congress remains hamstrung by intense regional and
special-interest disputes that pit oil-consuming states
against oil-producing ones. With an election approaching, the
odds for that rivalry producing a sensible energy policy are
slim.
   "This is where Washington is at its worst," says Thomas
Griscom, formerly a Reagan White House aide and longtime aide
to former Sen. Howard Baker (R., Tenn.). "There's not a lot
of people willing to set a goal that you won't achieve for
four to five years because, politically, it's hard to get any
credit back home when you're running for re-election."
   Congress will certainly make a stab at enacting oil-saving
measures when it returns in September. In the wake of the
Iraqi crisis, members will see an opportunity for action. "I
would misread Congress completely if I didn't expect them to
come back and to make this a major focal point," says deputy
energy secretary and former Louisiana congressman Henson
Moore. "We'll hear a lot of speeches. There will be a lot of
hearings. There will be a lot of advice given to the
administration."
   Moreover, there will be several key opportunities that
will test policy makers' determination to go beyond speeches
and take action. But in each case, the obstacles facing these
measures illustrate how difficult it will be for Washington
to produce a coherent oil-saving policy.
   The Energy Department, for instance, plans to spend this
fall on a previously arranged effort to devise a
comprehensive National Energy Strategy. The exercise might
seem an opportunity to devise a sweeping battle plan for
energy security. But already the effort has run into internal
ideological conflicts that suggest it will have only modest
results.
   Earlier this year, when the department was drawing up a
report on a series of public hearings to help prepare an
energy strategy, the White House sent a pre-emptive warning
that the final strategy would stress free-market ideas rather
than government activism. Budget Director Richard Darman and
White House Economist Michael Boskin maneuvered in internal
meetings to force the Energy Department to declare pointedly,
in the preface to its report on the public hearings, that the
Bush administration's policies will focus above all on the
use of market forces to regulate energy supply and demand.
   Such ideological pressures, coupled with the meek
energy-conservation plan the administration offered after
Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, already has critics expecting a
modest rather than a grandiose energy strategy from President
Bush. Mike Matz, Washington director of the Sierra Club's
public lands program, predicts the strategy is likely to
endorse some steps toward greater energy efficiency but "for
the most part it will endorse business as usual."
   In Congress this fall, lawmakers will be considering a
measure that would force auto makers to produce fleets that
average 40 miles to a gallon of gasoline by the year 2001, a
sharp increase in fuel efficiency from today's average of
27.5 miles per gallon for new cars. The bill, offered by Sen.
Richard Bryan (D., Nev.), was first offered as an
environmental measure designed to cut auto emissions thought
to heat the atmosphere, but now it is attracting interest as
an energy-conservation measure that could save 2.8 million
barrels of oil a day by 2005 -- more than the U.S. has been
importing from the Persian Gulf.
   But the Bush administration already has spoken out against
the bill. And auto companies fiercely oppose it, arguing that
they wouldn't be able to build the bigger cars that Americans
want for their safety features.
   An even tougher bill has been introduced in the House, but
it hasn't gone anywhere because it has been headed off by
Rep. John Dingell, a Michigan Democrat who is a close ally of
auto companies and who heads the Energy and Commerce
Committee, which would have to pass such a measure.
   Oil companies are hoping that the Persian Gulf crisis has
given them a lever to persuade Congress to open Alaska's
national wildlife refuge for drilling. That could be a
promising area for oil-exploration. But oil from the Exxon
Valdez spill is still on Alaska's rocky beaches, and
environmental groups in and out of Alaska will continue to
pose a formidable obstacle. Does the threat from Saddam
Hussein make environmentalists more open to oil drilling
there? "The answer to that clearly is no," says former Sen.
Gaylord Nelson, counselor to the Wilderness Society.
"Obviously those who want to drill in the arctic and every
other place in the country will use any excuse they can think
of to open up every place they can find for drilling
regardless of environmental consequences."
   The Bush administration, with Congress's blessing, has
already given a 30% boost to research into renewable energy
sources. But the effort pales when compared with those of
other countries, such as Japan.
   Renewable-energy advocates are calling for a much more
concerted government effort. But the budget deficit will
undermine those arguments, as even the advocates acknowledge.
"We've got a massive deficit, it's costing them millions of
dollars a day to keep troops out there," says solar-industry
lobbyist Scott Sklar. "To say I ought to have a few hundred
million dollars more . . . to bring in conservation and
alternative fuels and that sort of stuff, I think {President
Bush} is going to be reticent to do it."
   With such formidable obstacles, energy consumers will have
to suffer a bigger shock before the U.S. public policy
apparatus takes meaningful action. For now, voters seem more
incensed over alleged price-gouging by oil companies than
upset at America's energy-security dilemma. Says Robert
Teeter, a Republican pollster and longtime adviser to
President Bush, "I just don't think we're far enough into
this yet to know how public opinion will be affected."
   ---
    What should America do to avoid an energy shortage?
                                                                                                       

                                                    NOT
                                 FAVOR    OPPOSE   SURE
                                                                                                       

   Encourage the construction     37%       57%      6%
   of more nuclear power plants
                                                                                                       

   Loosen restrictions on         48        42      10
   offshore oil drilling
                                                                                                       

   Develop tougher conservation   80        15       5
   measures that would mean less
   gas consumption
                                                                                                       

   Provide tax advantages for     55        37       8
   oil producers to make new
   exploration more advantageous

   Put a tax on oil to send up    32        62       6
   the price of gasoline and
   encourage conservation
                                                                                                       

   THE WALL STREET JOURNAL/NBC NEWS POLL
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Overseas Shipholding Group Inc.:
   One Million Shares, 2.9%
   Of Total, Are Bought Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   OSG
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Overseas Shipholding Group Inc., a New York-based operator
of shipping fleets, said it bought one million of its common
shares outstanding, or an indicated 2.9% of the total. Terms
and sellers weren't disclosed and the company said it
couldn't comment on whether the privately negotiated purchase
was made in a single block or several smaller transactions.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Overseas shares closed at $15.875, down 37.5 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company had 34.9 million shares outstanding before it
said on Monday that it would buy back the one million shares
in the open market. It completed the private purchase
Tuesday. Though Overseas was intent on purchasing the shares
in the open market, "other opportunities came up," which
necessitated the privately negotiated approach, a spokesman
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   RJR Refinancing
   Is Challenged
   In Court Filing
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Securities lawyers have begun a court challenge to RJR
Nabisco Inc.'s current $6.9 billion refinancing, arguing that
it "deprives" the company's bondholders of certain rights.
   The new court filing, in Delaware's Court of Chancery,
continues a long series of suits and legal complaints
involving just about every financial transaction RJR has
undertaken in the past three years. So far, none of the court
cases has produced any awards for damages.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Whatever the outcome, the latest legal filing is likely to
be watched closely by holders of RJR's high-yield junk bonds.
These bellwether bonds have undergone wild trading swings
this year, creating more than $1 billion of paper losses and
paper gains for investors at different stages. In large part,
RJR's $6.9 billion refinancing seeks to end the financial
havoc caused by its junk bonds.
   The new court filing is a proposed amended complaint to a
large class-action suit brought in late 1988 on behalf of
RJR's then-shareholders. That original suit tried and failed
to block the February 1989 acquisition of the New York
tobacco and food company by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co.
   The proposed amended complaint would expand the 1988
shareholder suit to cover RJR's current refinancing, alleging
that it hurts bondholders. The proposed amended complaint
hasn't yet been accepted by the Delaware court, and RJR's
attorneys could challenge it. Usually, though, plaintiffs are
allowed to amend their complaints to include fresh
developments.
   RJR declined to comment on the latest filing, as did
attorneys at Abbey &amp; Ellis, New York, who helped draft the
proposed amended complaint.
   RJR on July 16 raised the interest rate on its 14.07%
bonds of 2007 to 17%, and boosted the rate on its 14.07%
convertible bonds of 2009 to 17.375%. Both those changes were
made to meet an obligation that the bonds trade at par, or
face value, on a "fully distributed basis." RJR also
announced plans to buy back $2.05 billion of junk bonds and
retire an additional $2.4 billion through an exchange offer.
   Shortly after RJR's announcement, the bonds of 2007 traded
as high as 95 1/2 cents on the dollar, while the bonds of
2009 traded as high as 97 cents on the dollar. It was their
best showing in nearly a year.
   More recently, though, both bond issues have slumped.
Yesterday, the bonds of 2007 were quoted at 84 1/2 cents on
the dollar, while the bonds of 2009 finished at about 89
cents.
   RJR has "failed to cause the securities to trade at par,
as warranted and covenanted," the proposed amended complaint
asserts. The complaint also objects to RJR's plans to retire
most of its convertible bonds of 2009, asserting that to do
so "diminishes the former shareholders' interest in the
equity value of RJR."
   The proposed amended complaint seeks the repeal of RJR's
refinancing moves so far, and unspecified monetary damages.
   Curiously, RJR's big bondholders generally haven't been
upset with their treatment in the refinancing. "I'm almost
satisfied," said Jack Utter, portfolio manager of the IDS
Extra Income mutual fund. Added Howard Marks, a managing
director at Trust Co. of the West: "I'm satisfied. I believe
the company made a good-faith effort to get the bonds to
par."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Northern States Power
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   NSP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NORTHERN STATES POWER (Minneapolis) -- Arland D. Brusven,
formerly secretary and financial counsel at this utility, was
named vice president and treasurer, effective Sept. 1,
succeeding James O. Cox, who is to retire.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- DAF N.V.:
   Truck Maker Reports Loss
   Of $18 Million for 1st Half
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   B.DAF NAV
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   DAF N.V., hurt by its heavy dependence on the weak British
truck market, reported a loss of 32.1 million guilders ($18
million) for the first half.
   The loss, which was expected, compares with net income of
74.5 million guilders a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the full year, the Eindhoven-based truck maker said it
expects to record a "small" net income "provided that
negative general economic developments do not prevail."
Nonetheless, some London stockbrokers said they were sticking
with forecasts that DAF will have a loss for the year. John
Longhurst of James Capel &amp; Co. forecast a loss of 60 million
guilders, while Stephen Reitman of UBS Phillips &amp; Drew
projected a 50 million guilder deficit.
   The company's troubles have prompted some analysts to
question whether it will be able to remain independent. DAF
said it is continuing to study possible joint ventures or
other cooperation projects with various possible partners in
Europe and the U.S., including Navistar International Corp. A
spokesman noted that DAF already cooperates with other
manufacturers in some areas; for instance, the company is
developing delivery vans jointly with Renault.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Pioneer Electronic Corp.:
   Firm Postpones Its Selling
   DAT Recorders in Japan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   PIO
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pioneer Electronic Corp. of Japan will postpone the
domestic sale of its digital audiotape, or DAT, recorders,
initially scheduled to start in Japan this autumn, a
spokesman said, citing the company's concerns about copyright
protection problems involved with DAT recording.
   He declined to specify the company's plans or to say when
the technology will be made available on the domestic market,
but said Pioneer will continue to study possible marketing of
the DAT recorder. Unlike analog tape recordings, digital
recordings deteriorate very little; thus, record makers fear
that DAT machines could result in a virtually endless stream
of high-quality copies that could cut into their sales. The
spokesman also said introduction of DAT decks domestically
could threaten favorable sales of Pioneer's compact disk
players.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japanese companies started selling DAT recorders after the
government adopted a new standard last May that limits a
user's ability to make copies of CD and other digital
recordings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CAL
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   CALFED Inc. (Los Angeles) -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said
it lowered its rating on $125 million of CalFed Inc.
subordinated debt to double-B-plus from triple-B-minus,
mainly because of concerns over the thrift's exposure to
softening real estate markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- American President Companies:
   Concern Plans Cost Cutting,
   Reorganization With Layoffs
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   APS
</CO>
<LP>
   American President Companies Ltd., Oakland, Calif., said
it plans a cost-cutting and reorganization effort that will
lead to layoffs and write-downs before the end of 1990.
   The transportation and shipping concern said it didn't yet
know how many layoffs there would be or how the write-downs
might affect its financial results, which already are down
this year because of broad problems in the shipping business.
American President had 4,994 employees at year end.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said the process will take place in two
phases, with the first focusing on eliminating "non-essential
positions" and streamlining corporate organization. The
second phase of the program, which will last through 1991,
will focus on increasing efficiency through investments in
new equipment, better training programs and other methods.
   A spokesman said the moves were in response to the
company's "poor" earnings performance in 1989 and so far this
year. The company has been hurt by a slowdown in the general
economy and by higher fuel prices, a problem that will only
worsen with the current turmoil in the Middle East.
   For the six months, American President had a loss of $1
million, or 22 cents a share, on revenue of $1.1 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Goal Systems to Post Net Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   GOAL
</CO>
<LP>
   COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Goal Systems International Inc., a
software products concern, said that for its second quarter
ended July 31, it expects to post increases of "at least 30%"
in net income and revenue. The company had restated
year-earlier profit of $2 million, or 11 cents a share, on
revenue of $15.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stocks, Bonds Tumble as Oil Soars
   ---
   Wednesday's Markets:
   Dow Slumps 43.81
   As Broad Indexes Fall
   To 52-Week Lows
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A sharp jump in oil prices pounded stock
prices so hard that broad market indexes tumbled to their
lowest levels in more than a year.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 43.81 points in
active trading to 2560.15, its low for the day but still
above the 1990 low set in January. But both Standard &amp; Poor's
500-stock index and the New York Stock Exchange composite
index fell to their lowest levels since May 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bond prices also fell sharply, pushing the yield on the
long-term U.S. Treasury bond to 9.05%, its highest level this
year. The dollar skidded against most major foreign
currencies amid a continuing flight to currencies of
countries with relatively high interest rates. The Swiss
franc continued to gain stature as the perceived safe-harbor
currency if war breaks out in the Mideast.
   Underlying the rise in oil prices to above $30 a barrel
and the drop in stocks was the increasing conviction among
investors that Iraq's invasion of Kuwait will result in open
warfare.
   "The market believes there will be a shooting war,"
asserts Jack Solomon, market technician at Bear Stearns. "A
lot of people are saying stock prices will head straight
up" if war breaks out, but he isn't so sure. "War is such a
traumatic event, the market has to react no matter what," he
said.
   Buyers were notable by their absence yesterday, traders
said; even bargain-hunters stayed away. Kenneth Spence,
technical analyst at Salomon Brothers, noted that even
oil-service stocks such as Halliburton and Schlumberger got
hit in the sell-off.
   "Traders are taking profits where they have them," Mr.
Spence said, adding that the rise in the long-term bond yield
increased the selling pressure in stocks. As the yield rises
in bonds, stocks lose appeal for investors.
   Because of the impact of rising oil prices on the already
weak U.S. economy, Mr. Spence noted, "analysts are beginning
to downgrade their profit estimates for the third and fourth
quarters and for 1991."
   The dollar's weakness came largely on the strength of the
Swiss franc, which jumped to 1.2780 from 1.2917 against the
dollar.
   Bob Morrissey, senior currency trader at the Bank of
Boston, said the sinking stock market helped push the dollar
lower. "We're definitely on the brink of recession," he said,
"and we should see higher inflation. Because of that, we're
not seeing any kind of investment flows into the U.S."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell on volume of 175.6 million shares on the
Big Board, where declining issues far outnumbered advancers,
1,202 to 353.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar fell. In late New York trading, the currency
was quoted at 1.5590 marks and 146.30 yen, compared with
1.5645 marks and 146.65 yen Tuesday.
   (See related story: "Credit Markets: Long-Term Treasury
Yield Exceeds 9%; But Buyers Are Few" -- WSJ Aug. 23, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Candid Camera Wins Some Court Fights
   For Insurers but Stirs Fairness Debate
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   Video cameras are changing the way things look in the
courtroom.
   Private investigators, equipped with compact video gear,
are being hired more often to spy on people who have filed
personal-injury lawsuits or workers' compensation claims.
Defense lawyers for insurance companies and their
policyholders are looking for taped evidence that can
discredit claims of injury, pain and suffering. Though judges
and juries sometimes frown on the technique, the impact,
plaintiffs' lawyers say, can be devastating.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's almost impossible to take away the sting of a
videotape," says T.J. Hallinan, a Lincoln, Neb., lawyer who
has felt the impact of videotapes in a courtroom. In
February, the Nebraska Supreme Court upheld a lower court
decision awarding only partial disability payments to one of
Mr. Hallinan's clients, a truck driver who claimed he could
no longer drive his tractor-trailer because of a back injury.
   The lower court disregarded the testimony of doctors
supporting the claim when it saw a videotape of Mr.
Hallinan's client test-starting lawn mowers at a yard sale,
loading furniture into a truck and engaging in horseplay with
his children.
   Plaintiffs' lawyers have long used videotape to document
their clients' injuries. On the other side, surveillance to
expose fraudulent or exaggerated personal-injury claims isn't
new; insurance companies and their lawyers have long employed
private investigators to check on plaintiffs and testify at
trial. But the advent of small, inexpensive camcorders and an
increase in fraudulent claims and damage awards have made
attorneys for insurance companies much more willing to
consider video surveillance.
   "Five or 10 years ago, there wasn't so much {taping}," Mr.
Hallinan says. "But now, if the situation justifies it, if
the cost justifies it, you can just about bet there's a
videotape out there."
   The increase in surveillance has spurred a flurry of state
court opinions governing just how the tapes can be used at
trial, the extent to which judges and juries should rely on
them and at what point taping constitutes an invasion of
privacy.
   Judges have been hesitant to give surveillance videotapes
more weight than medical testimony. Generally, they allow the
use of tapes in trials only to impeach or refute specific
testimony about an injury. Plaintiffs' lawyers complain that
tapes can be selectively filmed and edited. Even insurance
industry specialists recognize the potential for abuse.
   "One of the problems you have with this is how do you
address a humongous problem -- that is, insurance fraud --
and how to preserve people's rights," says Richard D. Rogers,
deputy director of the Illinois Department of Insurance and a
member of the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners. "That is a line that we will have to walk."
   The tapes can be particularly useful in
difficult-to-diagnose cases where medical specialists
disagree on a disability, such as with a back injury. They
are considered to be especially handy in workers'
compensation hearings, which are held to determine the extent
of a worker's job-related disability and the amount his
company or its insurer should pay in benefits.
   Unlike personal-injury suits, where liability is a factor,
workers' compensation hearings usually turn on two issues:
whether the injury occurred, and how disabling it is. When
medical evidence is conflicting or inconclusive, the central
issue becomes the credibility of the claimant. That's where
surveillance tapes come in.
   "In workers' compensation, it's the only thing between
winning and losing a case," says Denis Paul Juge, an
insurance defense lawyer at Sutherland, Juge, Horack &amp; Dwyer
in New Orleans and an adjunct law professor at Loyola
University.
   In one case, a New Orleans restaurant worker broke down
and wept while testifying two years ago at his worker's
compensation hearing that he could no longer tend his garden
because of a disabling back injury. The judge stopped the
trial and handed him a tissue, recalls Mr. Juge, who
represented the Louisiana Restaurant Association, which
insured the worker's employer. But the judge's sympathy
dissolved after he watched a two-hour tape of the plaintiff
shoveling fertilizer from his truck. The case was quickly
settled out of court; terms weren't disclosed.
   Many plaintiffs' lawyers, however, question the fairness
of video surveillance. They argue that the technique can be
deceiving. "The problem with the tapes is that they give no
indication of what happened after the filming," says Mr.
Hallinan, the Nebraska lawyer whose client was taped starting
lawn mowers. Injured plaintiffs have good days and bad days
and may look healthy because of medication they are taking,
he argues. Mr. Hallinan's client, he says, was taking muscle
relaxants when he was videotaped.
   In such cases, plaintiffs' lawyers say, the use of video
can backfire if a jury senses that only selected films are
being shown. In the case of Dan Ryan, a Chicago construction
worker who sued his employer after injuring his back when a
wall collapsed around him at a job site, investigators for
the company's insurer filmed him for several days. The jury
saw a three-hour tape that showed Mr. Ryan climbing
scaffolding at another job site. But what the jury didn't
see, says Mr. Ryan's lawyer, Chicago plaintiffs' attorney
Joseph Curcio, was Mr. Ryan being carried back down. When it
came out at the trial that Mr. Ryan had been selectively
filmed, says Mr. Curcio, the jury awarded him $1.3 million in
damages.
   Judges also tend to be suspicious of surveillance, says
Mr. Juge, the New Orleans insurance defense lawyer. Any
inconsistency between medical testimony during a trial and
video-taped evidence is usually decided in favor of the
testimony, Mr. Juge says. Even if medical testimony is
unreliable, judges have been reluctant to rely solely on
tapes.
   Much of the controversy over surveillance concerns
improper investigative techniques and how the tapes can be
used at trial. Courts in many states are just beginning to
deal with the issue of whether plaintiffs should be allowed
to view the tapes before trial to examine their authenticity
and potentially prejudicial effect. In the past year, courts
in Louisiana, Hawaii and New York have ruled that all secret
surveillance must be included in the routine pretrial
exchange of evidence.
   But how to deal with fraudulent investigative techniques
isn't an easy issue. There are no insurance industry
guidelines regulating how far private investigators can go
when gathering incriminating evidence, and company standards
vary.
   Guidance from judges has been ambiguous. Many judges agree
that society's interest in exposing fraudulent insurance
claims outweighs individual expectations of privacy.
Plaintiffs in injury cases can expect "reasonable inquiry and
investigation of their claims," says Mr. Juge. This standard
gives investigators wide latitude.
   A Qick Mart convenience store in Chicago was sued after an
elderly customer, a scrap metal collector, slipped and broke
his hip. Maryland Casualty Co., the store's insurer, hired
the private investigation firm Wallrab, Capenigro &amp;
Associates Inc.
   In May, an investigator posing as a scrap dealer knocked
on the door of the man's second-floor apartment and offered
him a pile of metal outside if he would pick it up. A van
parked nearby was ready with a camera, but the plaintiff, his
hands shaking and able to walk only with a cane, turned down
the offer.
   "The conversation ended shortly thereafter without
plaintiff taking the bait," investigator William Wallrab
wrote in a report to Maryland Casualty. The case hasn't gone
to trial yet. The company and investigators won't comment,
but other investigators and defense lawyers say such tactics
can easily alienate a jury.
   David Cooney, a Fort Lauderdale, Fla., defense lawyer,
says he only allows investigators to film in public places
and prohibits all contact with plaintiffs. Mr. Cooney,
representing North River Insurance Co., discredited a
personal-injury claimant in 1987 by having him secretly
filmed during a weekend recess in his trial. In the
courtroom, the claimant had used an orthopedic pillow and
cane and groaned audibly. But when he was taped walking out
of his house to pick up a newspaper and leaving a restaurant,
the cane was nowhere in sight. The camera also caught the
claimant getting into his car to drive to the courthouse. The
cane and pillow were already in the car.
   In general, though, surveillance faces greater scrutiny
these days. "It used to be condoned behavior to let air out
of tires and trash lawns to get {plaintiffs} to do physical
work," says James Kithas, a private investigator in Fort
Worth, Texas. But now plaintiffs sue for bad faith over such
conduct, defense and plaintiffs lawyers say, and juries tend
to look askance at the use of secret video surveillance.
   Even tapes that are legitimately produced "can come back
to haunt you," says Robert Frye, a defense lawyer at Shannon
Gracey, in Fort Worth. "They can argue that not only did you
deny the claim, but you're spying on them as well. It can
really make you out like the bad guy."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Forstmann, Little &amp; Co.:
   General Instrument Buy-Out
   Completed for $1.5 Billion
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   GRL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Forstmann, Little &amp; Co. said it completed its acquisition
of General Instrument Corp., a cable-TV equipment company,
for $1.5 billion.
   Some 95.5% of General Instrument, or 29.9 million common
shares, was tendered under the New York buy-out firm's
$44.50-a-share offer, which expired Tuesday at 5 p.m., a
Forstmann spokeswoman said. The remaining shares will be
redeemed at the same price.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Including options that were converted as part of the
purchase, General Instrument had about 34.6 million shares
outstanding, she added.
   In connection with the deal, General Instrument said it
will redeem all its remaining subordinated convertible
debentures on Sept. 12 for a total price of $1,068.27,
including interest, for each $1,000 face amount.
Alternatively, before the redemption, holders may convert the
debentures, which pay 7.25% and are due in 2012, into
$1,097.01 in cash for each $1,000 outstanding.
   The Forstmann spokeswoman said virtually all debentures
had been converted prior to the buy-out, and she expected any
remaining holders to take the cash offer.
   In its fiscal year ended Feb. 28, General Instrument
earned $98.7 million, or $3.27 a share, on revenue of $1.38
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   For Risk-Minded, Oil-Option Strategies to Limit Losses
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   With the Persian Gulf crisis unfolding hour by hour, the
highly explosive oil market may be the last place for most
individual investors just now.
   But for people who can afford to take some calculated
risks, some experienced energy traders say it is possible to
bet on oil prices without losing more than your shirt.
Speculative investment strategies using options contracts,
they note, limit the potential loss to the amount put up --
the "premium" paid to buy the option.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Commodity markets are normally some of the riskiest
around, but recent events have made them even worse," says
James Colburn, energy-options strategist at E.D.&amp; F. Man Inc.
in New York. Even so, he says, there are some possible
options plays for people who "are able to put money aside for
high-risk situations."
   Options give holders the right -- but not the obligation
-- to sell (a put option) or to buy (a call option) something
at a fixed price for a specified period of time. In the case
of oil, that something is a futures contract for delivery of
oil several weeks or months from now.
   Speculators don't have to exercise the options to profit,
however. If they guess right about oil prices, they simply
sell the options. Put options gain in price when the
underlying futures contract declines in value, while call
options increase in price when the underlying futures
contract appreciates.
   If speculators guess wrong, the options expire worthless.
But the most they can lose is the premium. Option holders
also can't be forced out of the market for lack of funds by
rapidly falling or rising prices. That can happen to those
who try to play the market with futures contracts, because
futures holders are sometimes asked to post additional
good-faith money to maintain their market positions.
   For people who think oil prices will continue to rise, the
simplest option strategy might be to buy a "Dec. 29 call" --
a call option on the December crude-oil futures contract that
has an exercise, or "strike," price of $29. Speculators could
buy a Dec. 29 call on Tuesday for a premium of $1,650 ($1.65
per barrel, multiplied by 1,000 barrels per contract).
   How much people who buy the option could make depends on
how high oil prices go by Nov. 9, when the option expires.
The break-even point is the $29 strike price plus the $1.65
premium, or $30.65. If, for instance, the December crude
contract is selling for $32 a barrel, speculators could make
$1,350 ($1.35 times 1,000), not counting commissions. On the
other hand, if the December crude contract is selling for
anything less than $29, speculators would lose the entire
$1,650 they put up.
   They could reduce the potential loss by using what is
called a "bull call spread." In this strategy, they decrease
the cost of the call option they purchase by selling another
call option with a higher strike price but the same
expiration date.
   For example, as the table accompanying this article shows,
a speculator could buy a $27 call that costs $2,460, while
selling a $29 call for $1,650; the net cost would be $810.
That is the maximum that can be lost, regardless of what
happens to the price of crude oil. But this strategy also
limits the maximum potential profit, in this case to $1,190.
The option market rarely reduces risk without extracting a
price.
   People who believe the oil market has overreacted to
events in the Middle East should consider bearish strategies.
The simplest of those would be to purchase a December put
with a $25 strike price. On Tuesday, the price of a Dec. 25
put was $1,070 ($1.07 per barrel). When the option expires on
Nov. 9, this strategy would produce a profit if the December
crude-oil contract is below $23.93 (the $25 strike price
minus the $1.07 per barrel premium). The maximum potential
loss would be $1,070.
   Speculative bears could reduce the potential loss by using
a spread strategy that reduces the cost of the put option
they purchase by selling another put option with a lower
strike price. As with a bull spread, the trade-off is that a
"bear put spread" also limits the maximum potential profit.
   People who are uncertain about the future price of crude
or who believe it will remain in a trading range might
consider a neutral strategy known as a "butterfly spread."
Such spreads may be done with either puts, calls or both.
Typically, they involve the selling of two options that have
a strike price near the current price of the underlying
commodity. Simultaneously, options with strike prices both
higher and lower than the options sold are purchased.
   The accompanying table shows an example in which a
speculator sells a December call option and a December put
option, each with a strike price of $28. At the same time a
$31 call and $25 put would be purchased. This trade would
have a maximum profit of $2,270, which is the amount that the
speculator would make if December crude settles at $28 when
the options expire.
   The maximum potential loss would be $730, which would be
the minimum amount a speculator would be required to put up
to establish this butterfly spread. But that full loss would
be realized if the price of crude oil is just a little above
or below the strike price of the options sold. In the case of
the example shown in the table, any price below $26 a barrel
or above $30 a barrel would result in the maximum loss.
   Mr. Colburn of E.D.&amp; F. Man cautions that the option
market is now experiencing extremely wide bid-ask spreads
because of the volatility of futures prices. The wide spreads
-- plus commissions that typically run about $30 per option
at a discount broker -- mean that strategies that look good
on paper lose some of their luster in reality, he says.
   Still, he says, "Energy options are good for speculators
who are comfortable with the risks they entail and also have
a strong view on where they think oil prices are going to be
in the future."
   ---
             How Some Oil-Market Plays Could Fare
                                                                                                       

   Profit or loss from five limited-risk option strategies,
based on option prices as of Aug. 21.
                                                                                                       

                               PROFIT OR LOSS AT VARIOUS
                               CLOSING PRICES FOR DECEMBER
                       Margin  CRUDE-OIL FUTURES CONTRACT**
                     Required   $20     $24     $28    $32
                     --------------------------------------
                                                                                                       

 Bullish Strategies
                                                                                                       

 Buy Dec. 29 call @
 $1.65                 $1,650 -$1,650 -$1,650 -$1,650 $1,350
                                                                                                       

 Buy call spread
 -- Buy Dec. 27 call @
 $2,46
 -- Sell Dec. 29 call
 @$1.65                   810 -   810 -   810     190  1,190
                                                                                                       

 Bearish Strategies
                                                                                                       

 Buy Dec. 25 put @
 $1.07                  1,070   3,930 -    70 - 1,070 -1,070
                                                                                                       

 Bear put spread
 -- Buy Dec. 26 put
 @ $1.46
 -- Sell Dec. 24 put
 @ $0.77                  690   1,310   1,310 -   690 -  690
                                                                                                       

 Neutral Strategy
                                                                                                       

 -- Buy Dec. 25 put
 @ $1.07
 -- Sell Dec. 28 call
 @ $2.00
 -- Sell Dec. 28 put
 @ $2.44
 -- Buy Dec. 31 call
 @ $1.10                  730  -  730 -   730   2,270 -  730

 *Minimum amount most brokers would ask; some might require
 more.
 **All December crude options expire on Nov. 9, and the
profit or loss calculations are as of that date,
 excluding commissions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Chips &amp; Technologies Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CHPS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CHIPS &amp; TECHNOLOGIES Inc. (San Jose, Calif.) -- William L.
Marocco resigned as a director of this chip maker. An
independent real estate developer, Mr. Marocco said he
stepped down to devote his full energies to his own business.
A successor wasn't immediately named.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Judge Places Restrictions
   On Keating's Transactions
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- A federal judge ordered Charles Keating,
the chairman of Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan's parent company, to
provide regulators with up-to-date financial statements, to
refrain from transferring any assets overseas and to give
regulators 48 hours notice before making any transaction
involving assets of more than $5,000.
   The order had been requested by the Office of Thrift
Supervision, which is trying to force Mr. Keating to return
$40.9 million to the failed S&amp;L as restitution. Mr. Keating
has maintained, however, that he is broke and hasn't
committed any wrongdoing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   OTS officials said Mr. Keating is now required to provide
an accounting of his finances within five days. "From our
standpoint, we would characterize this as an absolute victory
for the American taxpayer," said Timothy Ryan, OTS director.
   Brad Boland, a spokesman for Mr. Keating, countered that
the chairman of American Continental Corp., of Phoenix,
Ariz., already had volunteered not to move assets out of the
country. He also asserted that federal regulators already
know what Mr. Keating's financial condition is. "They're out
chasing shadows," Mr. Boland said. "This is nothing more than
a waste of taxpayer dollars."
   Lincoln, of Irvine, Calif., was seized by the government
in April 1989, one day after parent American Continental
filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
   U.S. District Judge Stephen V. Wilson's ruling will remain
in force for 10 days, and he will rule next week if the order
should be continued in the form of a preliminary injunction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Slump to Post-Crash Intraday Low;
   U.K. Shares End Mixed as Early Surge Is Halted
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST CANDA JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stock prices fell sharply Wednesday, sending the
Nikkei Index below 25000 points in the midafternoon and
marking a post-crash intraday low.
   The index bounced back after futures indexes recovered
moderately during the last hour, however.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   London shares, meanwhile, finished a choppy session mixed,
after an early surge evaporated in the wake of a soggy
performance on Wall Street.
   Tokyo's Nikkei index of 225 issues was down 1086.93 points
at 25210.91 on Wednesday. Volume on the first section was
estimated at 360 million shares, up from 284 million shares
Tuesday.
   In Tokyo Thursday, the Nikkei index plunged another
1003.96 points to close the morning session at 24206.95.
   In trading Wednesday, losers outnumbered gainers 986 to
34, while 38 issues were unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section dropped 69.52 points, or 3.46%, to 1939.83.
   The second section index fell 148.05 points, or 3.71%, to
3838.32. Volume in the section was estimated at nine million
shares, down from 13.4 million shares Tuesday.
   The Nikkei Index bounced up 370 points toward the end of
the day from its intraday low of 24844 points, helped by
arbitrage buying and some bargain-hunting buying for steel
and blue-chip electrical shares, traders said.
   However, "the sentiment was extremely bearish," said
Shigenori Koto, general manager at equity division at
Sumitomo Life Insurance.
   As the Middle East remains vulnerable to a break-out of
war at the slightest provocation, major players on the market
"can't do anything other than wait and see," the official
said.
   The market saw few buy orders all day as overnight plunges
on European and U.S. stock markets fueled investors'
uncertainty about the direction of the Tokyo market, traders
said.
   Reflecting such uncertainty, futures indexes were pushed
down by active short hedging by institutions and a heavy
sell-off by one of the Big Four brokerage houses, triggering
arbitrage selling of stocks. As a result, cash indexes
plunged at a fast pace, traders said.
   Expectations for a possible increase of the official
discount rate grew on reports that the Japanese long-term
prime rate is likely to be raised 0.4 percentage point to
8.3% in September in response to rising market interest
rates, traders said.
   But observers said the market has discounted a possible
impact of a discount rate increase.
   Nevertheless, Naoya Ozawa, director in the research
department at James Capel Pacific, expressed his concern
that, because a discount rate rise is unlikely to fill out a
gap with interest rates on the money market, the increase may
not provide the perception that the move is final.
   Noticeable Wednesday was dumping by individual investors,
participants said.
   Because of recent stock market plunges, individuals are
required to place additional deposits by brokerage houses for
stocks they had bought on margin. Rather than investing
additional money in stocks, individual investors prefer to
reduce their holdings as the prospect for a sharp recovery of
the market remains poor, traders said.
   Meanwhile, institutions are feeling it's too risky to
trade in the cash market and mostly are seeking profits by
trading stock futures, some fund managers said.
   But as the market could be swayed in any direction by
rumors or news from the Middle East, institutions feel
insecure about keeping their accounts committed to either
sell positions or buy positions, said Koji Kamemura, general
manager of the fund managing department at Yasuda Mutual Life
Insurance.
   "We finish each day of trading by making sell positions
and buy positions even," he said.
   Petroleum and mining shares, which had been bought amid
rising oil prices, fell sharply Wednesday. Mitsubishi Oil
fell 105 yen to 975 yen (72 cents to $6.64). Nippon Oil was
down 180 yen at 1120 yen. Nippon Light Metal dropped 80 yen
to 1150 yen.
   Blue-chip electricals weathered well, with Hitachi ending
flat at 1250 yen and Toshiba flat at 925 yen.
   London stocks were bid higher throughout the morning in a
technical adjustment to recent sharp drops, dealers said. But
once shortages were filled, demand for shares effectively
dried up, they added.
   And Wall Street's early surge and then about-face took
London shares below Tuesday's closing level in the last
half-hour of trading, commentators said.
   "It was a nothing kind of day," said one London trader.
"Once short positions were covered up, there was really no
news to activate the market."
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index fell
3.3 points to 2104.8. The Financial Times 30 Share Index
gained 6.8 points to 1622.5. Volume was 338 million shares,
down from 412.4 million shares Tuesday.
   U.K. trade figures were largely ignored, dealers said, in
favor of waiting for developments from the Middle East.
"Investors are watching the war zone and not economic data,"
said one commentator.
   Of the FT-SE 100 stocks, nearly 20 finished unchanged,
reflecting investors' reluctance to enter or remain in the
market, commentators said.
   Reuters closed at 789 pence, up 30 pence ($15.08, up 57
cents). The stock has lately been battered on a wave of heavy
U.S. selling amid one downgrading from a New York brokerage
firm. A total of 2.1 million shares changed hands.
   BICC rose 10 pence to 348 pence. The cables and
construction group reported a 7.5% rise in first-half pretax
profit, as strong growth in the core cable business offset
sluggishness at the home building unit.
   Composite insurance stocks were generally better, dealers
said, as dividend yields are beginning to look attractive to
investors at current price levels. Royal Insurance rose 5
pence to 414 pence, Sun Alliance gained 7 pence to 288 pence,
General Accident added 4 pence to 484 pence, while Guardian
Royal rose 3 pence to 198 pence.
   Commercial Union Assurance ended unchanged at 458 pence.
   Elsewhere, shares closed higher in Paris, Frankfurt, and
Milan, lower in Brussels, Stockholm and Madrid, and mixed in
Amsterdam and Zurich. South African gold stocks closed lower.
   Also, stocks ended lower in Sydney, Hong Kong, Singapore,
Seoul, Taipei, Manila and Wellington.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                   % This
                                Aug 21    Aug 20     Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. ........................  297.2     303.2     -  8.6
 Britain .....................  626.3     640.8     - 13.1
 Canada ......................  382.9     385.4     - 11.5
 Japan ....................... 1110.1    1120.9     - 32.9
 France ......................  438.6     453.3     - 22.6
 Germany .....................  254.5     264.5     - 10.8
 Hong Kong ................... 2210.8    2236.0     +  5.4
 Switzerland .................  184.3     191.0     - 16.5
 Australia ...................  316.9     313.9     -  4.3
 World index .................  469.9     478.1     - 17.2
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   As Park Rides Fail,
   Universal Florida
   Sues Design Firm
   ---
   Ride &amp; Show Rebuts Charges
   Of Negligence, Claims
   `Long History of Success'
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   RANKY MCA
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Universal Studios Florida is blaming the designer of its
"Jaws" and "Earthquake" attractions for myriad problems that
have shut down the two popular rides for much of the time
since the $630 million theme park opened June 7.
   The problems have caused "significant damage to our
business," said a Universal spokesman in Orlando. In
addition, Universal said it is racking up expenses to
"correct deficiencies" in the designer's work.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Underwater technology experts and other consultants have
been retained to overhaul "Jaws." This is "a major situation
for us and we're angry," the spokesman said. "Earthquake" has
"design flaws" and is "unreliable."
   The high-thrills attractions were designed and built by
Ride &amp; Show Engineering Inc., a San Dimas, Calif., firm made
up largely of Walt Disney Co. alumni. In a lawsuit filed in
state court in Orlando last week, Universal Florida charged
the design firm with negligence and breach of contract,
including failure to have the rides operating satisfactorily
on time.
   "We strongly deny the allegations. We have been good
partners and acted in good faith," said Mark Messersmith,
Ride &amp; Show director of marketing.
   Mr. Messersmith said that the firm has a "long history of
success" with Universal, especially in California. Ride &amp;
Show built the "Miami Vice," "Earthquake" and "King Kong"
attractions on the Universal Studios backlot adjacent to the
corporate offices of MCA Inc.
   Universal Studios Florida is a joint venture of MCA and
London-based Rank Organisation PLC.
   However, MCA's Florida attraction is much more ambitious
than its 25-year-old Universal City studio tour. There,
visitors view "Jaws" from the safety of their tram tour
seats; in Orlando, the great white shark attacks and nearly
sinks a boat that guests are riding in.
   Such "motion-based technology" used at the Orlando
attractions is more complicated than anything at Universal
City, Mr. Messersmith said. One of Ride &amp; Show's gripes is
that many elements of the Orlando rides have been handled by
other vendors and are thus out of Ride &amp; Show's control.
   "We usually try to be the general contractor and then we
have ultimate responsibility. In this case we are under the
direction of Universal. Disney and Universal are different
that way," Mr. Messersmith said. Ride &amp; Show was founded six
years ago by two ex-Disney Imagineering employees. A large
number of Ride &amp; Show's employees also worked at Disney,
Universal's main rival in the theme-park business.
   Universal Studios has been issuing a free ticket with each
paid admission to mollify visitors who are disappointed about
the closed rides. Tickets cost $29 for adults and $23 for
kids aged three to 11.
   Jaws had been running off-and-on until it was shut down
recently to be redesigned and rebuilt, the Universal
spokesman said. "It will reopen next year." Earthquake is now
in "technical rehearsal" meaning it is open to the public
when it is working.
   Another major attraction, Kongfrontation, also is having
problems. Universal said there aren't any plans to bring
legal action against the attraction's designer, which
Universal declined to identify.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hecla Mining Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HL
</CO>
<LP>
   HECLA MINING Co. (Couer D'Alene, Idaho) -- Joseph Coors
Jr., president and cheif executive officer of the Coors
Ceramics Co. unit of Adolph Coors Co., was named a director
of this mining concern, succeeding Norman Visnes, who
resigned for health reasons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News Brief -- Comprehensive Care Corp.:
   Dissident Holders Succeed
   In Bid to Oust Directors
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CMP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   Comprehensive Care Corp., St. Louis, said dissident
shareholders succeeded in their effort to oust the directors
of the provider of chemical dependency programs.
   A spokesman for the dissident group said that the new
directors intend to meet on Monday and remove the company's
chief executive officer, W. James Nicol, and that the new
chief executive will be James P. Carmany, a 51-year-old
former Comprehensive Care executive vice president who left
the company last year in a dispute with management.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said six nominees of the shareholders
committee were elected directors: Norman L. Perry, Harvey G.
Felsen, Howard S. Groth, Robert I. Miller, Charles Moore and
Michael K. O'Toole. Mr. Nicol, the ousted board's nominee,
also was elected a director.
   The dissident group, which holds about 9.1% of
Comprehensive Care's stock, launched its proxy fight after
management's attempt to sell the company failed last year and
the stock price collapsed. The group, called the Shareholders
Committee to Rejuvenate CompCare, has said it might seek a
restructuring of the company's assets and liabilities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   How Wedtech Cleaned Up
   ----
   By Walter Olson
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   In 1983 the U.S. Navy, fearing trouble in the Gulf,
decided it needed a way to move troops and gear quickly from
ships onto harborless desert coasts. It placed an order for
pontoon causeways, which are simple, low-tech affairs --
essentially boxlike metal cans strung together to float
between ship and shore.
   Then came trouble. Although the pontoon contractor had
charged plenty, it fell far behind schedule. Worse, the end
product flunked specs. The square corners of the cans kept
diverging from a true 90-degree angle, and the bolt holes did
not line up; only months later was it found that the factory
floor had not been level. Workers had tried to bang the
objects into shape with a sledgehammer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Switch suppliers? No chance: The manufacturer was "wired"
politically. So the Navy went right on buying from Wedtech
Corp. in New York's depressed lower Bronx.
   As reporter Marilyn Thompson tells it in "Feeding the
Beast: How Wedtech Became the Most Corrupt Little Company in
America" (Scribners, 325 pages, $22.50), John Mariotta and
Fred Neuberger had been running a little tool-and-die shop
when Mr. Neuberger stumbled across the 8(a) program of racial
preference in federal contracting. What a boon]
   "Do you mind being a minority?" he asked his partner.
"What do you mean, minority?" Mr. Mariotta shot back. "Puerto
Rican." "I am Puerto Rican. What are you talking about?"
   He learned quickly enough. The setaside program, a cross
between affirmative action and industrial policy, enabled the
once-obscure company to grab contract after contract from an
often reluctant Pentagon, swelling from revenue of $1.5
million a year in 1978 to $117 million in 1985. As the
"model" client of the federal Small Business Administration,
it also got heaps of grants and loan guarantees, along with
help from local governments.
   Wedtech played its hard-luck Bronx location for maximum
symbolic value, giving off the odor of sanctity the way some
magazines give off perfume from scent strips. Mr. Mariotta
kept asserting, quite implausibly, that he had saved its
entire (largely immigrant) work force from the welfare rolls,
and thus was doing society a favor by taking set-aside work.
   Almost at once the company embarked on an audacious career
of forgeries, perjuries and briberies. From a phony billing
scheme, based on applying Wite-Out to genuine invoices, it
graduated to cooking of books and stock manipulation.
   Members of Congress made themselves helpful. At one point
New York Democratic Congressman Mario Biaggi demanded an
astounding 5% of any contract revenue he helped steer the
firm, on top of stock. Wedtech forked over $50,000 to a
family law firm to have the chairman of the House Small
Business Committee quash an investigation, and later paid
another $50,000 for a promise to have him start a probe of a
rival firm. Ethics charges were a favorite weapon against
those who stood in Wedtech's way.
   The firm was likewise adept at deploying those other
uncontrolled forms of modern armament, lawsuits and bias
charges. It sued Ms. Thompson and her newspaper, the New York
Daily News, and menaced Barron's over a critical editorial.
Wedtech lobbyist E. Robert Wallach charged that by breaking
the corruption story the press had jeopardized hundreds of
minority jobs and had thus shown itself to be racist.
   Mr. Wallach, fatefully, also sought to amplify the firm's
"general ally structure" by exploiting an old and close
friendship with Attorney General Edwin Meese, his political
antipode but apparently an indulgent listener. And the firm
hired a lobbyist with Reagan White House connections, which
may have been its undoing.
   "SBA officials were accustomed to being strong-armed" by
Congress and local officials, but "White House interest was
virtually unheard of," writes James Traub in another
treatment of this shabby saga, "Too Good to Be True: The
Outlandish Story of Wedtech" (Doubleday, 370 pages, $21.95).
   Throughout, Wedtech was suffused with a sense of
grievance, "a sense of injured merit," as Mr. Traub puts it.
Merit? If not superior competence, what kind of merit?
Incredibly, Wedtech insiders felt a moral superiority, as
victims deserving redress from an unfair society. They
squandered fortunes gambling and ordering Mercedeses by the
six-pack, yet went on swearing they were "socially
disadvantaged."
   Full of lurid situations and ripe frauds, the Wedtech
affair is not entirely well served by either of the two
books. Ms. Thompson's great virtue is that (after a shaky,
clumsy opening) she hews closely to the plot line. Events
unfold at a smart clip and the reader grasps the overall
shape of the story.
   While Ms. Thompson holds back from guessing at the wider
meaning of it all, Mr. Traub keeps halting the action to
deliver op-ed pieties about the Reagan years as an era of
greed. Yet he does a fine job describing how the slush fund
worked and how the prosecutors built their case.
   Oddly, Mr. Traub seems to blame this disaster of
uncompetitive procurement on laissez-faire politics, a thesis
that itself cannot be made to float except by pounding the
material with a mallet. In point of fact, free-market
Reaganites tried to abolish the Wedtech-promoting SBA and
Economic Development Administration, and some of the bolder
ones questioned the setaside program. Soldiers who entrust
their lives to the quality of American military equipment may
question it too.
   ---
   Mr. Olson is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute
for Policy Research.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Merrill Lynch Names
   Sowanick to Replace
   Kochan as Strategist
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MER
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. said it named Thomas
Sowanick as chief bond strategist, replacing James Kochan who
departed after 10 years at the securities firm.
   Mr. Kochan left Merrill to oversee the fixed income
money-management area of Baird Asset Management, a division
of regional investment banking firm Robert W. Baird &amp; Co., in
Milwaukee.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At Merrill, Mr. Kochan had played an important part in
mapping the firm's bond advice.
   In the spring of last year, Merrill ran a huge newspaper
advertising campaign, strongly recommending "high quality"
bonds. That turned out to be a good call, as interest rates
fell and bond prices rose. But earlier this year, Mr. Kochan
said: "We are constructive" on bonds, "which is less than
bullish but not bearish." Bond prices fell sharply for
several months after that.
   A native of the Manitowoc, Wis., area, Mr. Kochan said he
had wanted to return to his home state, which the Baird
position allowed him to do. Mr. Kochan also said he had
"always planned on some day getting involved in the asset
management function."
   Mr. Sowanick had been a bond strategist under Mr. Kochan,
and often filled in for him.
   A Merrill spokesman said, "We are obviously disappointed
at Jim's decision, and at the same time we wish him well in
his new challenge. Jim has been an outstanding research
professional at Merrill Lynch. His service to our sales force
and clients has been exemplary. We are very fortunate to have
Thomas Sowanick to orchestrate the strategy area. His role,
comparable to Jim Kochan's, gives us an experienced person to
continue to run the fixed income strategy effort."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Integrated Waste Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   IWSI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BUFFALO, N.Y. -- Integrated Waste Services Inc. said it
acquired Beco Consolidated Services Inc., a Niagara Falls,
N.Y., industrial cleaning outfit. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The non-hazardous waste management company announced
earlier this week its acquisition of Wizard Method Inc. and
Southwestern Environmental Inc. Integrated expects revenue of
$6 million for its first full year, ending Dec. 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   CRUDE OIL PRICES passed the $30-a-barrel mark, their
highest level since the early 1980s. The Mideast turmoil also
pushed up prices of refined petroleum in frantic trading.
Gasoline futures rose nearly three cents a gallon. Oil
industry officials reported tightening supplies of some
products in certain countries.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stocks and bonds fell sharply on the surge in oil prices.
The Treasury's 30-year bond fell more than a point, pushing
its yield above 9%. The Dow Jones industrials fell 43.81
points. Broad stock indexes hit their lowest points in more
than a year. The dollar closed mostly lower.
   ---
   Gold prices climbed further on the Mideast crisis. The
December futures contract gained $3.30 an ounce.
   ---
   Tokyo stock prices plunged amid anxiety about the Mideast.
The Nikkei marked a post-1987 low before closing down 1086.93
points. The index fell 1,003.96 points Thursday morning.
                                                                                                       

   Long-term Japanese market sentiment has turned bearish due
to a liquidity squeeze, say analysts.
   ---
   Electrolux plans to lay off 10% of its 150,000 workers
world-wide in a cost-cutting move. The Swedish appliance
concern said the biggest cuts would come in the U.S. The
firm's second-period pretax profit fell 56%.
   ---
   Banks are concerned about an obscure federal law that lets
members of the U.S. armed forces reduce the rates they pay on
consumer loans.
   ---
   Donald Trump took his shuttle airline off the market hours
after he signed the final papers on his $65 million bank
bailout. The developer said the airline is now profitable.
   ---
   The NASD's effort to expand its trading system into London
has hit a regulatory snag over reporting requirements. The
project could be delayed or even scuttled.
   ---
   Money market fund assets rose $6.5 billion in the latest
week to a record $400.4 billion as both individuals and
institutions sought safety.
   ---
   National Intergroup agreed to put up for sale its only
operating business, wholesale drug distributor FoxMeyer,
caving in to the demands of dissident holder Centaur
Partners.
   ---
   A CBS News shake-up appears imminent, and may result in
the ouster of the unit's president, David Burke.
   ---
   CrossLand Savings' plan to meet new capital requirements
was rejected by federal regulators.
   ---
   Washington Post Co. agreed to finance an experimental
wireless-communications system that would use lightweight
portable phones. The venture could compete with existing
cellular and traditional phone services.
   ---
   RJR's $6.9 billion refinancing is being challenged in
court on grounds that it is unfair to bondholders.
   ---
   Stocks: Volume 175,550,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2560.15, off 43.81; transportation 894.34, off 14.24;
utilities 196.81, off 1.69.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3305.18, off
31.69.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 134.33, up 0.30; spot
index 133.06, up 0.02.
   Dollar: 146.30 yen, off 0.35; 1.5590 marks, off 0.0055.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Intergroup Inc. Puts Itself,
   Unit on Block After Holder Pressure
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   NII WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- National Intergroup Inc., caving into a
dissident shareholder group, agreed to put its itself and its
sole operating unit on the block.
   The company, which a month ago lost several key board
seats to Centaur Partners Group, said its board would
evaluate proposals to sell itself and its FoxMeyer Corp.
unit, a $2.3 billion wholesale drug distributor. The company
said it has received "indications of interest" regarding
FoxMeyer within the past six weeks but declined to elaborate.
Following the announcement, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. put about
$257 million of the company's debt on its Credit-Watch list,
indicating a possible raising or lowering of its credit
rating.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The decision to consider selling FoxMeyer marks a victory
for the company's largest shareholder, Centaur, which has a
16.5% stake. Centaur, which began acquiring National
Intergroup stock last November, criticized management for
seven consecutive years of operating losses and advocated a
complete liquidation to enhance shareholder value. Although
Centaur won only three of 10 board seats at last month's
annual meeting, more than two-thirds of shareholders favored
its slate, giving the group what it termed "a clear mandate"
for its program. Yesterday's announcement was also a defeat
for Howard M. Love, who National Intergroup said was
succeeded as chairman by director Buck Mickel. Mr. Love, who
lost his board seat in the proxy fight, will serve as chief
executive officer of the company until his planned retirement
on March 31, 1991.
   Mr. Love long maintained that shareholders wouldn't
realize FoxMeyer's potential value by selling it now.
Although lagging the performance of other drug distributors,
FoxMeyer has been improving and reported a 40% surge in
operating earnings and a 23% sales rise in the first quarter
ended June 30.
   Centaur has estimated that FoxMeyer, with its 11
distribution centers, could fetch between $475 million and
$525 million, or at least $21 a share. In composite trading
on the New York Stock Exchange, National Intergroup closed at
$16.125, up $1.50.
   Gregory Drahuschak, an analyst with Butcher &amp; Singer,
Pittsburgh, believes FoxMeyer is valued at at least $25 a
share. He noted that the drug distribution business is
growing at double digit rates and that FoxMeyer recently
landed a major account to supply pharmaceuticals to the fast
growing Phar-Mor drug chain.
   Still, finding a buyer may prove difficult, he said. The
large drug distribution businesses, such as McKesson Corp.
and Bergen Brunswig Corp., might be precluded from acquiring
FoxMeyer -- the nation's fourth largest drug wholesaler --
because of antitrust considerations.
   The board apparently agreed to explore a sale, after
realizing Centaur wouldn't relent and that a lengthy fight
could jeopardize the FoxMeyer operations.
   "We believe that growing FoxMeyer is the best way to
maximize the value for shareholders but some people believe
there's greater value in a sale," a company spokeswoman said.
"The board decided to find out."
   Centaur said it "is gratified that the board has moved in
a manner consistent with the clear shareholder mandate."
   National Intergroup has also agreed to pay Centaur $4.2
million, representing a portion of Centaur's proxy expenses.
In addition, the company and Centaur agreed to dismiss
proxy-related lawsuits.
   Separately National Intergroup increased the size of its
board to 12, adding FoxMeyer President Robert L. King and
Centaur partner Abbey J. Butler.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace:
   Call-Up Leaves Reservists, Bosses Asking How It Works
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   The heat of the Persian Gulf crisis is about to singe the
American workplace.
   Though matters of parting and danger may be uppermost in
Americans' minds, questions about the jobs they leave behind
are also coming up in the wake of President Bush's plans for
a reservist call-up. Initially, a call-up of 40,000 military
reservists is likely, though Mr. Bush could call as many as
200,000 of the nation's 1.7 million reservists for the Gulf
crisis without consulting Capitol Hill.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The call-up could have serious effects for such companies
as AMR Corp.'s American Airlines. About 1,200 American
pilots, or 15% of the carrier's total, are reserve members.
   Army Reserve officials say they're being flooded this week
with calls from reservists and their employers, who are
anxious to know their responsibilities to each other.
Reservists traditionally leave their jobs for an initial four
to six months of training, followed by one weekend of duty
each month and two weeks of "summer camp" annually. But no
one is sure how long the Persian Gulf call-up may last.
   Here is how a number of Army Reserve and National Guard
legal authorities answer questions about the call-up:
                                                                                                       

   Q: As an employer, do I have to pay my reservist while he
or she is on active military duty?
   A: No, the military pays according to rank. But some
employers make up the difference between the usually-lower
military pay and the civilian salary when a reservist goes
off to summer camp.
                                                                                                       

   Q: As an employer, do I have to give the returning
reservist his same job?
   A: No. But federal law requires you to offer him a job
with the same pay, rank and seniority that he could have
expected if his work hadn't been interrupted by emergency
military duty.
                                                                                                       

   Q: But if an employee was promoted right before the
call-up, or promised a raise, does he still get the new job
and additional money when he returns?
   A: He should receive a job in line with the promised
promotion and raise.
                                                                                                       

   Q: Does that apply if the reservist volunteered for
emergency duty, instead of being ordered to report?
   A: Yes. Volunteers' jobs are protected in the same manner
as those called up.
                                                                                                       

   Q: How long do I have to hold open a job for reservists?
   A: At least four years, and that can be extended by
federal request if the emergency lasts.
                                                                                                       

   Q: Do I still have insurance responsibility for my
reservists?
   A: No, government insurance kicks in when soldiers go on
active duty. Medical insurance for their dependents is also
covered by Uncle Sam. Dependents' dental insurance isn't
covered by the government, but continuing any such civilian
program is the employer's decision.
                                                                                                       

   Q: If a reservist returns so badly disabled that he can't
hold down his previous job, do I still have to hire him?
   A: Yes, and offer him a job he can perform that's as close
in pay, rank and seniority to the one he left.
                                                                                                       

   Q: If a reservist is called up merely to serve in the
motor pool across town, and doesn't go to the Middle East, do
I still have to offer him a job later?
   A: Yes.
                                                                                                       

   Q: If the crisis that spawned the call-up ends, and the
reservist takes a liking to active duty, do I still have to
keep a job open?
   A: Yes, for as much as four years after emergency duty
called.
                                                                                                       

   Q: How much notice do my reservists have to give me that
they're leaving?
   A: None. For strategic and security reasons, if they
receive military orders, they may be required to leave
without telling you.
                                                                                                       

   Q: When my reservists are released from duty after the
crisis, can I require them to get right back to work?
   A: No. They may take as much as 90 days of unpaid leave
time, as they wish.
                                                                                                       

   Q: May I -- for budgetary reasons -- wait 90 days before
putting them back on the payroll?
   A: No. If they want to return the day they're off military
duty, you're required to take them.
                                                                                                       

   Q: What if a reservist gets into some kind of legal
trouble in the military -- the kind of thing that might have
influenced me against hiring him in the first place?
   A: If the reservist has an honorable-discharge paper, he's
qualified to come back. Otherwise, the employer might be able
to refuse him.
                                                                                                       

   Q: What if I sell my company to someone else while the
reservists are gone?
   A: The new owner inherits the company's previous
obligations to reservists.
                                                                                                       

   Q: What if my business goes into bankruptcy court while
the reservist is gone, or I go into another business he
doesn't know much about?
   A: You're still obligated to hire him if you have payroll.
                                                                                                       

   Q: What if I disagree with any of this and refuse to
comply?
   A: Reservists' complaints against civilian employers will
be investigated by the local U.S. attorney.
                                                                                                       

   Q: As a reservist being called up, and taking a big pay
reduction, do I have to keep making my current credit-card
payments?
   A: Yes, but interest rates on credit cards, car payments
and certain other loans to reservists may be reduced to 6%
under the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940.
Some companies -- American Express Co., for example -- say
debt extensions may be negotiable in some cases. However,
military law holds armed forces personnel responsible for
their debts, and wages can be garnisheed to pay them.
                                                                                                       

   Q: What about mortgage payments and child support?
   A: The Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940
allows called-up reservists to apply to their lenders for
reductions of interest rates to a cap of 6%. Foreclosures and
repossessions involving debt incurred before the call-up will
require a court order. As for child support, an Army legal
spokeswoman says, reservists are still responsible, and any
reductions would have to be negotiated on a case-by-case
basis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   PWA Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   BA T.PWA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   PWA Corp.'s Canadian Airlines International unit said it
obtained a US$300 million credit facility to help finance the
purchase of Boeing Co. 747-400 and 767-300ER aircraft that
are to be delivered in 1991 and 1992. The Calgary, Alberta,
company said the credit facility was provided by a syndicate
of domestic and international banks led by Citibank Canada
and Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank (London).
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   SL Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   SL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SL INDUSTRIES Inc. (Mount Laurel, N.J.) -- Dwane
Baumgardner, chairman of Donnelly Corp., was named a director
of this maker of electrical and engineered products,
expanding board membership to eight.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Film: Glimpse Into Kurosawa's Subconscious
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Though Akira Kurosawa has been making films for half a
century, he probably was anonymous to most Americans until
this spring, when he won a special Academy Award. The prize
was payback from his students, film makers such as Steven
Spielberg and George Lucas and Martin Scorsese, who have
learned much of what they know from the Japanese master. (Mr.
Lucas, for example, quite openly borrowed from Mr. Kurosawa's
"Hidden Fortress" for his "Star Wars" trilogy.)
   This broadest show of acceptance must have been gratifying
to a man who, 20 years ago, was so depressed by his life and
his film career that he tried to kill himself. So in a way it
is a shame that the first Kurosawa film to be released after
this belated introduction to the movie-going public is "Akira
Kurosawa's Dreams."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Not that this cinematic anthology of an old man's visions
isn't extraordinarily vivid and evocative as well as quite
moving; it is. But these painterly set pieces don't have --
couldn't have because of the form -- the sustained narrative
pulse that give the best Kurosawa pictures their emotional
energy. (Nor are they as immediately accessible as his
sometimes bloody action pictures, such as "The Seven Samurai"
or "Yojimbo.")
   Mr. Kurosawa's "Dreams" is both a logical extension of the
director's lifelong search for a harmonious take on the world
and a relief after the bleakness of his last film, "Ran."
That powerfully constructed work was a resolutely hopeless
interpretation of "King Lear" that suggested Mr. Kurosawa had
looked back on his already long life and decided he should
have worked harder at his failed suicide.
   Now, as Mr. Kurosawa has rummaged through his subconscious
and reconstructed what he found there in film form, he has
found a more heartening range of emotion for a man of his age
and accomplishment. As thinking people have always been, he's
worried about the future of the world and upset by human
destructiveness. But he also sees beauty and responds to it
in two ways: as an ambitious artist who will never have time
to do all he wants to do, and as a perpetual seeker who hopes
someday to simply appreciate the beauty he's found.
   He has taken this mixture of memory, fear, loss, anxiety
and hope and divided the ingredients into eight vignettes,
each with a particular point to make (pro-nature, anti-nuke,
pro-artist, anti-war).
   He has shaped his dreams into folklorish tales that could
also serve as an advanced guide to the film-maker's craft.
For this collection he has created an assortment of striking
worlds that can be light and lyrical or dark and barren. Mr.
Kurosawa not only knows every trick in the book, he invented
many of them. He has used these vignettes as a showcase for
the mix of harshness and beauty, simplicity and extravaganza,
that makes his visual poetry, always accompanied by the most
striking sounds.
   The first two tales unfold from the point of view of small
boys learning the oldest lesson in the book, that humans pay
a price when their desire or greed interrupts nature's
course. "Sunshine Through the Rain" is drawn from a Japanese
legend that says foxes get married when the sun shines on
rainy days and it is bad luck for humans to watch. "The Peach
Orchard" tells the story of a little boy still mourning the
loss of the family peach trees his parents had chopped down,
and whose imagination briefly brings them back to life.
   Mr. Kurosawa has choreographed these stories as a blend of
dance and painting. A troupe of Kabuki-like dancers
represents the foxes in the first; a troupe of human dolls
wearing brightly colored costumes re-creates the peach
orchard for the little boy in the second. The composition and
movement of these pieces is so striking that the non-Japanese
speaker may feel tempted to ignore the subtitles because the
narrative is so much more prosaic than the imagery.
   Mr. Kurosawa appointed as guide through the rest of his
dreams the appealingly inquisitive-looking actor, Akira
Terao. Though he is in young middle-age, Mr. Terao's
character, called "I," seems to represent in some ways the
spectator that Mr. Kurosawa feels himself to be. Whether
wandering through a world devastated by nuclear war, or
stepping into a van Gogh painting to meet the artist, "I"
looks like a professional tourist. He'd like to be a part of
the horrible and wonderful things going on around him but
he's too busy asking questions to get caught up in anything,
even the end of the world.
   The most playful piece is "Crows," Mr. Kurosawa's homage
to van Gogh. The film maker found a wheat field in Japan that
has a van Gogh glow and put director Martin Scorsese in the
middle of it. The amusingly frantic Kurosawa disciple stands
holding his paint easel, his hair and beard dyed red and a
straw hat on his head, and a bandage (and a helpful reference
to a missing ear). "I" watches Mr. Scorsese's hyperkinetic
Vincent race through the stunning set Mr. Kurosawa built for
this piece, a world designed to look like a three-dimensional
van Gogh painting.
   After presenting his vision of a nightmarish nuclear war,
Mr. Kurosawa ends on a note of reconciliation and redemption,
with "Village of the Windmills." But this isn't the last word
from Mr. Kurosawa: He's just begun production on his
adaptation of "Rhapsody in August," Kiyoko Murata's novel
about a Japanese family's reconciliation with its American
relatives.
   ---
   "Pump Up the Volume" is 42-year-old director Allan Moyle's
vision of contemporary teen life, told from the point of view
of a kid who becomes a celebrated talk-radio host working off
a short-wave radio in his bedroom. In life he's just another
alienated suburban teenager who gets good grades and doesn't
talk to anybody at school. At night he's a star, talking
dirty (in a disguised voice) and talking directly about the
problems of being a teenager today: "All the great themes
have been used up and turned into theme parks."
   Christian Slater, the Jack Palance lookalike who played
nasty so nicely in "Heathers," plays this Lenny Bruce wannabe
as a nice kid who wants to be bad, and he does it well. The
movie has an engaging low-budget congeniality, though Mr.
Moyle never quite gets a handle on whether he's making a
cartoon or playing it straight.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: A friend of mine who has seen almost every
movie ever made on any continent says Mr. Kurosawa's "Ikiru"
(Japanese for "to live") changed his life. This, too, is a
movie about dreams, the dream of a man dying of cancer who
finally finds meaning in his last years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Contel Wins Navy Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   CTC AN CR ROK
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Contel Corp. was given a $30 million Navy
contract for telecommunications services.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Defense Logistics Agency awarded jet-fuel contracts to
Amoco Oil Co. for $20.4 million; B.F. Oil Co. for $17.3
million; and Laketon Refining Corp. for $16.4 million.
                                                                                                       

   Crane Defense Systems, a subsidiary of Crane Co., was
awarded a $17.2 million Navy contract for ship winch
assemblies.
                                                                                                       

   Rockwell International Corp. got a $10 million Air Force
contract for B-1B aircraft computers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- The Gallery:
   Dreams and Decay: Bay Area of the Past and Future
   ----
   By David Littlejohn
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   San Francisco -- The Museum of Modern Art recently
established a separate Department of Architecture and Design.
This summer, curator Paolo Polledri opened the department's
most ambitious project so far -- a dubious, slightly
incoherent assemblage called "Visionary San Francisco," on
view through Sunday. For this, he collected scores of images
of the city's supposedly heroic/romantic past and its
contentious, unheroic present, then added a few disconcerting
visions of its future.
   The visitor begins in a series of cramped spaces, on the
walls of which are hung drawings, plans and photographs of
historical "visions" for the Bay Area, a few of which
actually got built. These include two university campuses,
two world's fairs, two bridges, a grandiose 1904 master plan
for the city (which was never realized) and some freeway and
redevelopment schemes of the 1950s (many of which,
unfortunately, were).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This zigzagging trail ends up in two rooms full of
confusing drawings and models for "Yerba Buena Center," a
monument to the chaos of contemporary urban politics and real
estate finance. Twenty-three years after buildings were
demolished and residents evacuated for this dream project
just south of Market Street, the site is still mostly empty,
still a dream, still a project. The latest in a long chain of
developers (Olympia &amp; York) and designers now promises to
fill up the remaining hole by 1999. I doubt that the result,
if I live to see it, will have the Tivoli Garden charm seen
in some of the architect Lawrence Halprin's ubiquitous
doodles.
   The visitor then backtracks through a roomful of publicity
for the 195-acre dream plan of another current developer
(Santa Fe Realty) and into the museum's neoclassical rotunda.
Here are displayed works newly commissioned from four artists
(or pairs of artists), each supposedly related to four
written texts also commissioned for the occasion by Mr.
Polledri. The texts, and the corresponding artworks, were
intended to have something to do with "future visions" of San
Francisco, but only one set of them really does.
   Writer William Gibson created a "Blade Runner"-like
dystopia in which poor people of the future live in
ramshackle shelters growing like barnacles over a ruined Bay
Bridge; Oakland apparently was somehow destroyed. His grisly
little tale of San Francisco-to-come is effectively
illustrated by Piranesian sketches of the decaying, inhabited
bridge, and two electronic, diagrammatic models in long,
glass-covered metal boxes by Ming Fung and Craig Hodgetts of
Santa Monica.
   The artists have elaborated on Mr. Gibson's text, by
imagining that Japanese corporations and other ruling powers
have walled off separate precincts of the city (including
Golden Gate Park, a Shopper's Haven, and a Presidio theme
park) for the embattled middle class.
   The other three texts -- a neo-Ruskinian screed against
the post-medieval world and in favor of Beauty; an
overwrought essay/memoir on the local gay scene and
sensibility; and a stock detective story set in Hispanic San
Francisco -- all are second-rate stuff. (Even so, you have to
buy the $30 catalog to read them.) The paired works of art
are, respectively, unrelated to the text, hard to decipher,
and just plain awful. All of them look embarrassingly out of
place in a proud space accustomed to housing more serious
art.
   The catalog does contain useful historical essays on the
planning of San Francisco, and reproductions of many of the
best things in the show. The most memorable things in it for
me were those two big sci-fi pinball machines in the rotunda;
some shamefully romantic renderings of the 1915 fair by Jules
Guerin; Don Potts's large-scale wooden models of the City
Hall dome (sliced in half) and one Golden Gate Bridge tower;
and a telling set of 1940 "Before" and "After" sketches by
architect Vernon DeMars. After 50 years, he is still fighting
City Hall -- showing how "modern architecture" is going to
improve urban life. To postmodern eyes, his messy, unruly
"Before" drawings may well look more appealing than his
tidied-up, rationalized "Afters."
   A healthy contrast to the SFMMA show was the installation
of 25 works by Detroit-born, Europe-based artist James Lee
Byars earlier this season, to which were devoted all 9,000
square feet of the open lower galleries of the University Art
Museum in Berkeley. This museum is a sort of smaller,
cubistic, New Brutalist Guggenheim, formed of cast-concrete
galleries that ascend around in a jagged series of open
terraces, the ends of which overlook the spacious and
light-flooded lower levels.
   At the Byars exhibition called "The Perfect Thought," one
could not actually come near to his dreamlike "room" of
hieratic gold and marble objects. Impeccably arranged atop a
42-foot-diameter gold-leafed circle on the floor, they had to
be viewed from the parapets of the galleries above, which
heightened the sense of their unworldly "perfection" -- a
favorite word, and perverse goal of this mysterious, witty
and unclassifiable artist.
   After a world-wandering life spent doing giant folded
paper sculptures and staging cryptic performances in public
places (all described in the elegant catalog), Mr. Byars,
born in 1932, semi-settled in Venice 10 years ago and began
making, and occasionally finding, compellingly symbolic
spheres, rings, columns and other pure shapes of wood, stone,
marble or bronze (often gilded), ranging from a one-inch gold
sphere (kept under a glass bell-case) to a column of basalt
blocks 23 feet high.
   Arranged atop the gold-leaf disc (a smaller gold disc was
hammered onto the floor of an adjacent empty gallery), along
with three pieces of antique furniture and an alienating set
of black psychiatrist couches, they form a kind of exquisite
room once inhabited by or designed for creatures like us, but
somehow better. A colossal gilded 19th-century amphora, about
10-feet high, lies tipped on its side; a precise row of six
glass cases contains each a pure geometrical shape, carved in
white marble.
   The whole arrangement looked so eerily near to perfection
that one felt as if the museum had grown up around it, like a
bumptious modern church designed to house a holy relic. (Mr.
Byars always orchestrates his own installations, often
dictating to galleries and museums his own outrageous terms
("Close off the doors and windows] Paint all the walls
red]"). One could stare at each object from a great many
angles, admiring the artist's finesse, dazzled by his Louise
Nevelson palette (gold, black and white) and his semi-sacred
shapes.
   But it was the suite of objects as a whole that led me to
imagine a lost civilization discovered by some Borgesian
archaeologist, a race that once understood the meaning of
circles, spheres and cubes; or the throne room of some
not-quite-human king in one of Italo Calvino's "Invisible
Cities."
   I can't think when I've seen a museum display so
beautiful, so compelling, so dense with provocative
possibilities and unanswered questions. Major credit goes to
his curator and Boswell, James Elliott, for whom this clearly
was a long labor of love; and to Nina Hubbs, the museum's
installation designer, who could teach Mr. Polledri a thing
or two.
   Mr. Byars's 25 precious objects now are being shipped to
Houston, to be reinstalled by him (differently) in the
Contemporary Arts Museum there. If you're anywhere near
Houston in September or October, go see this perfect show.
   ---
   Mr. Littlejohn is a novelist, critic and professor of
journalism at the University of California, Berkeley.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CSS Industries Inc. Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CSS
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- CSS Industries Inc. said its board has
authorized the company to repurchase up to 100,000 common
shares. The purchases will be made from time to time on the
open market, or through private transactions. CSS has
5,210,787 common shares and common-share equivalent
outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Falls Across the Board as Investors
   Flock to Currencies With High Yields
   ----
   By Thomas L. Waite
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA JAPAN EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- High-yield currencies benefited from a dearth
of dollar-moving news yesterday, depressing the U.S. unit
across the board.
   Backed by high domestic interest rates, the British pound
briefly surpassed $1.93 and remained at its highest level
against the dollar in nine years. Sterling rose to $1.9240
late yesterday from $1.9115 late Tuesday. It peaked at
$1.9305 just before noon in New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The dollar was quoted late in New York at 1.5590 marks,
down from 1.5645 marks a day earlier. The U.S. currency was
also changing hands at 146.30 yen, down from 146.65 yen in
New York late Tuesday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Thursday, the dollar was quoted
at 146 yen, down from 146.92 yen at the close there
Wednesday. Meanwhile, the dollar was trading at about 1.5595
marks, down from Wednesday's Tokyo close of 1.5630 marks.
   In trading Wednesday, the Canadian dollar was lifted above
88 U.S. cents for the first time in 12 years. The Australian
and New Zealand dollars were also well bid throughout
trading.
   Leading foreign exchange dealings, however, was the Swiss
franc. The dollar fell to within a Swiss centime of its low
of 1.2675 francs set more than 2 1/2 years ago. The dollar
ended New York dealings at 1.2780 Swiss francs, down from
1.2917 francs late Tuesday.
   Though interest rates supporting the Swiss franc are the
lowest among highyield currencies, the economy of Switzerland
is more robust than that of Britain or Canada and more
predictable than that of Australia or New Zealand, commented
Gilbert Benz, a Swiss Bank economist in New York.
   And inflation, which eats away at real investment returns,
is more amenable to central bank control in Switzerland than
in those other four countries, Mr. Benz said. Swiss inflation
has stayed under the Organization of Economic Cooperation and
Development average for the past five years.
   Stacked against the dollar, Mr. Benz said, all five
high-yield currencies come out ahead. U.S. interest rates are
based under 8%, compared with 15% in the U.K., 14% in
Australia and New Zealand, 13% in Canada and 10% in
Switzerland. With the U.S. seemingly near a recession,
financial markets expect easier money there, despite
continued price pressures.
   "There's nothing hidden in the agenda of investors," Mr.
Benz said. "People have already gotten burned thinking the
{U.S. Federal Reserve Board} wouldn't ease in the face of
inflation." Last month, the U.S. central bank allowed
interbank interest rates to decline a quarter of a percentage
point.
   Dollar-centered dealings were indecisive. The market could
neither buy the dollar on Persian Gulf violence nor sell it
on new indications of U.S. economic weakness. In the void,
the currency drifted lower on the market's bearish opinion of
it, until traders chose to square up, buying back dollars.
During the recent weeks of military tension, most dealers
have refused to go home with oversold dollar positions.
   "Everyone is short, short, short. The long-term players
don't care. They'll sell and go home, but the day traders
square up before going home, so the first guy that decides to
bail out beats everyone to the punch. Then there is a mad
scramble," said Robert Ryan, Bank of New York's foreign
exchange manager, describing what has become a typical end to
recent currency trading sessions.
   Yesterday, the dollar's general rebound occurred when it
struck technical support at its intraday low of 1.2710 Swiss
francs, Mr. Ryan said.
   The Canadian dollar rose to 88.08 U.S. cents from 87.73
cents previously, marking the first time it was above 88 U.S.
cents since Aug. 11, 1978.
   "The Canadian dollar is basically negating any type of
economic fundamentals," said Diego Giurleo, corporate foreign
exchange manager in New York for Royal Bank of Canada. While
the Canadian economy is seemingly following that of its
neighbor to the south, he said, the Canadian unit is a
"darling" because of the returns of Canadian securities.
   He noted that even the recent half-percentage point
reduction in the spread between yields of Canadian government
paper and similar U.S. bills has failed to dent interest in
the Canadian dollar. The spread is currently about five
percentage points, compared with 5 1/2 points last week.
   The Australian dollar ended in New York at 82.03 U.S.
cents, above 81.45 cents Tuesday, after reaching a high of
82.24 cents in North American trading.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $411 an ounce, up $3.60. Estimated volume
was a moderate four million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Thursday, gold was quoted at
$413.75 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- ACEC-Union Miniere S.A.:
   Firm, in Joint Venture, Bids
   For Mexican Copper Mine
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   B.ACC LATAM B.SGL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED MINING (MNG)
</IN>
<LP>
   ACEC-Union Miniere S.A. said it and Mexicana de Cobre S.A.
had offered to buy the Cananea copper mine from the Mexican
government for $475 million.
   The Belgian non-ferrous metals and mining concern said it
had formed a joint venture with Mexicana de Cobre to bid for
the mine, which is being auctioned as part of the Mexican
government's privatization program.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ACEC-UM said it would hold a 21% stake in the joint
venture, to be called Mexicana de Cananea S.A. de CV.
   The company said it wouldn't comment on the details of its
offer until the Mexican government had issued its response,
which is required within 10 days. The Belgian company said
its offer, made Monday, was the highest bid.
   Spokesman Philippe de Vynck said ACEC-UM is seeking to
diversify its sources of copper supply by investing in the
Mexican mine.
   ACEC-UM's Metallurgie Hoboken-Overpelt unit is the largest
refiner of copper in Europe. ACEC-UM is 82% owned by holding
company Societe Generale de Belgique S.A.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   China Fires Up Propaganda Machine
   To Halt Inroads of Western Influence
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   XIAMEN, China -- "In the past, the Western imperialists
used military force against the Chinese people," an angry
Huang Zijian tells a U.S. visitor. "Now they are trying to
penetrate our thinking through peaceful means," the young man
says, tapping his head with his forefinger for emphasis.
   Heavy stuff -- particularly for a sixth grader. But in
today's China, schoolkids like Zijian are spitting out such
bellicose statements, aping an official campaign to study the
Opium War, a 19th century symbol of China's humiliation at
the hands of the West. The propaganda assault harks back to a
distant era but offers a blunt message for today: The West
still is China's enemy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Renewed anti-Western hostility is the latest chapter in
China's enduring struggle to come to grips with the rest of
the world. Beijing's leaders concede that, to modernize,
China must embrace Western technology and innovation. But
Beijing is equally determined to keep out "bourgeois liberal"
notions such as personal liberty and democracy, which so many
student protesters last year found appealing. It's a delicate
balance that experts believe isn't sustainable. Eventually,
they argue, the door to the world must either swing fully
open, or else be slammed shut.
   "China still can't figure out if it's the Middle Kingdom
or just a part of the world," says Peter Geithner, who
recently served as China representative of the Ford
Foundation.
   In the aftermath of last year's Tiananmen demonstrations,
the balance has tilted back toward hostility, as China's
hardliners try to prevent the global retreat of communism
from infecting China. The state-controlled press slams the
U.S. for alleged subversion. Officials sympathetic to the
West have been sacked or arrested. Intellectuals are barred
from meeting with foreigners. And Chinese who work for
foreign companies have been accused of being traitors.
   China's retreat toward isolation has been reinforced by
Western economic sanctions imposed after the Tiananmen
massacre. The result, diplomats say, is that China is now a
less reliable and relevant partner in resolving international
issues.
   "As long as China's leaders insist on playing up the
anti-Western rhetoric of the Cold War-era, the country simply
can't participate in meaningful international dialogue," says
a U.S. official.
   Suo Yudong, director of the local foreign affairs office,
is the chief "barbarian handler" in Hengshui, a drab city in
north China normally closed to foreigners who lack special
permission to visit. Indeed, only a few hundred Chinese
cities are freely accessible.
   A rare visit to Hengshui by a U.S. journalist reveals the
suspicion of foreigners that persists in China's heartland.
In a hotel room, Mr. Suo nervously fingers his American
visitor's short-wave radio. His unease recalls a slogan of
the 1960s, when most foreigners were barred from China: "Only
spies and traitors have radios."
   Satisfied, eventually, that the shortwave poses no threat
to China's security, Mr. Suo nonetheless refuses the
visitor's repeated requests over three days to venture
outside the hotel. A guard is posted in the hotel suite. To
keep the American from nosing around Hengshui's streets, all
interviewees are brought to the hotel room.
   "We cannot allow you to make any nonarranged contact with
the Chinese people," Mr. Suo explains.
   In Beijing, too, officials try to restrict contact between
Chinese and foreigners. Many Chinese organizations in the
capital have instructed their employees not to meet
foreigners without approval, which is rarely granted.
   Chinese officials deny that the state discourages
Sino-foreign contact. But Yuan Mu, spokesman for the State
Council, China's cabinet, told foreign journalists that at
least some officials want to do just that. "I would advise
you not to contact any Chinese," Mr. Yuan told the reporters.
"You see, Chinese people don't wear headbands designating
themselves as `good' or `bad' people. So you're better off
avoiding all contact whatsoever."
   Interestingly, while officials publicly slam the West and
its "bourgeois liberalism," many of China's senior leaders
have sent children to the U.S. to study. Senior leader Deng
Xiaoping's son attended the University of Rochester, for
example, while Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin's son is at
Drexel University.
   George Soros, a wealthy, Hungarian-born U.S.
philanthropist, clashed with China's xenophobia when he came
to Beijing in 1986 to set up a foundation to assist artists
and intellectuals. Arriving during China's reform era, he won
approval from several liberal officials associated with
then-Premier Zhao Ziyang. Mr. Soros agreed to donate $1
million a year to the project.
   But when last year's pro-democracy movement was crushed
and Mr. Zhao was sacked, Mr. Soros' laboratory of
biculturalism became a prime target of China's hard-line
leadership. The public security minister, Wang Fang, even
accused the foundation of being an arm of the U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency. The case linking the foundation to the
CIA fell apart, but the institute closed. Its Chinese
director, Liang Congjie, lost his job and came under
investigation.
   China's ideologues also are mounting campaigns to show the
masses that Western culture and democracy represent a quick
path to ruin.
   An Economic Daily article equates capitalism with AIDS. A
People's Daily editorial dismisses the Western political
tradition as "sham democracy." A speech by Li Ruihuan, a
Politburo member, asserted that the surge in China of
gambling, pornography and drugs is part of a plot by "hostile
overseas forces."
   In such a climate, it isn't surprising that Chinese
working for foreign-invested companies have been harassed.
The Chinese manager of a Shanghai-based venture came under
police investigation for trying to help his company apply for
a preferential tax rate. Investigators accused the employee
of treason for trying to "cheat the motherland" of its
rightful income.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- CMS Energy Corp.:
   Transmission Line Will Link
   Michigan, Indiana Utilities
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   CMS PIN
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   CMS Energy Corp. said it agreed to jointly build a $105
million transmission line connecting its Consumers Power Co.
subsidiary with a utility subsidiary of PSI Resources Inc.
   CMS said it plans to use the transmission line to sell
electric power from its 49%-owned Midland Cogeneration
Venture, a 1,370 megawatt, gas-fired plant. CMS of Jackson,
Mich., said it will spend about $55 million for the project.
Plainfield, Ind.-based PSI Resources will contribute about
$50 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The companies will link their systems with a 345-kilovolt
transmission line between Battle Creek, Mich., and Akron,
Ind.
   The transmission facilities are expected to be in
operation by December 1992. The project is contingent upon
regulatory approval.
   The Midland Cogeneration Venture was designed as a nuclear
power plant but abandoned before completion in 1984. The
plant reopened on March 16 as a gas-fired plant. CMS said its
Consumers Power subsidiary purchases more than 800 megawatts
from Midland Cogeneration Venture.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Arabian Oil Co.:
   Tokyo Firm's Pretax Profit
   Slipped 1.4% in First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Arabian Oil Co., Japan's biggest oil producer, reported
that its unconsolidated pretax profit in the first half of
fiscal 1990 slipped 1.4% to 27.87 billion yen ($190.1
million) from 28.25 billion yen the year earlier.
   Although sales rose 1% in the half ended June 30,
operating profit at the Tokyo company was down 1.5% to 28.07
billion yen from 28.5 billion yen. As a result, net income
fell to 1.12 billion, down 2.6% from 1.15 billion yen the
year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Per-share earnings inched down to 21.59 yen from 22.72
yen. Sales volume fell 12% to 6.7 million kiloliters. But the
value of sales rose to 94.78 billion yen from 93.87 billion
yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN MZ AXP IBM T
</CO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHECKS AND BALANCES: Accounting firms cut back services
and clients.
   More lawsuits and the S&amp;L crisis cause firms to take steps
against exposure. The American Institute of CPAs tightens its
membership rules: peer review for those auditing public
companies is mandatory this year. "Firms are much more
careful who they have as clients," says Walter Primoff, of
the New York State Society of CPAs. Laventhol &amp; Horwath
searches national databases to check prospective clients for
lawsuit activity. The use of engagement letters, spelling out
the services offered, rises.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A national survey by consultant Johnson &amp; Higgins finds
eight of 10 midsize accounting firms restrict services and
56% won't take clients considered "high-risk." Chicago's
Blackman Kallick Bartelstein won't accept banks or S&amp;Ls;
smaller firms move out of public-company auditing, says
attorney Dan Goldwasser. The cost of more thorough review
creates fee pressures, says Ned Futter of Wiss &amp; Co., and
firms offer quality-control incentives to employees, says Jay
Nisberg, a Ridgefield, Conn., consultant.
   The risk of getting turned away is higher for start-up
concerns "who really need" the services, says Mr. Primoff.
                                                                                                       

   THE MUSICAL RUSSIANS are coming. But is it more than we
can bear?
   Glasnost raises the number of Soviet performing artists
appearing in the U.S. The Institute for Soviet-American
Relations says 313 U.S. groups organize such events, nearly
triple the number in 1983. Cultural exchanges, which used to
show that "the other side didn't have horns and tails," now
are a full-blown exhibition of cultural pride, says the
institute's Eliza Klose.
   But sponsorship is one-sided. U.S. firms still carry much
of the cost. The result: A flood of Soviet artists and
musicians coming here. "They're sending everybody and
anybody," says William Lockwood, of Lincoln Center, of the
rise in Soviet requests to showcase performers. Promoters
worry that saturation could hurt ticket sales. But some don't
mind the influx. "The audience will get more discriminating,"
says the Los Angeles Philharmonic's Ara Guzelimian.
                                                                                                       

   BOWING TO THE JAPANESE finds favor among U.S. firms
   "The Japanese are terrific shoppers," says an R.H. Macy &amp;
Co. spokeswoman. Among the department store's recent efforts
to attract Japanese customers by using their language:
shopping invitations placed in New York hotels; store signs;
a consultant with tips on shopping, entertainment and food,
and fashion shows. The San Francisco Macy's works with
convention planners to arrange shopping sprees. American
Express has a 24-hour hotline with Japanese-speaking
operators and travel counselors in several cities.
   Hotels join the effort. A special room-service menu at the
Hyatt Regency in Dearborn, Mich., offers sushi and miso soup,
and Japanese cooking classes. Some staffers at the Belleview
Biltmore Resort Hotel in Clearwater, Fla., study the language
and gear up for All Nippon Airways' plan to fly direct to
nearby Orlando. The Japan Travel Bureau launches a restaurant
coupon program with a fixed menu at each of 20 New York
eateries, including Tavern on the Green, to avoid confusion
in ordering.
   Despite the efforts, U.S. firms need to do more promotion
in Japan, says Kazuo Hirai of the Japan Travel Bureau.
                                                                                                       

   AIRING THEIR DIRTY LAUNDRY is what New Jersey employees of
International Business Machines Corp. and American Telephone
&amp; Telegraph Co. are doing. Dry cleaner Cristopher Evans sets
up shop at these and other suburban corporate sites, and
plans to expand.
                                                                                                       

   AT LEAST he was insured. A premium-payment letter Gen.
Custer mailed to Equitable Life Assurance weeks before he
died at the Battle of the Little Bighorn is offered for
$35,000 by manuscript dealer Joe Rubinfine. Custer's parents
collected $5,000.
                                                                                                       

   WALK ON: The U.S. Mallwalk Association offers product
coupons, samples to the fitness-conscious over-50 set with
money and calories to burn. Malls look for mileage from
mallwalkers who join the group.
                                                                                                       

   LIEN FILINGS BUILD as property slump starts to affect
smaller firms.
   Subcontractors and suppliers respond to more late payments
by general contractors and developers by filing more liens on
homes and commercial properties. Richard Wakefield, a Lutz,
Fla., lien server, says recent state activity is up 25%. The
American Subcontractors Association recommends filing as soon
as payments are missed; a subcontractor simply "can't rip up
the concrete he just poured," says the group's Colette
Nelson. Liens don't ensure payment, but prevent a property's
sale.
   Lien laws differ widely by state. Some property owners
face liens by subcontractors who haven't been paid by general
contractors, even though the owner paid the general
contractor in full. Florida senior citizens complain of more
such liens. Among protections: joint or direct payment of
general and subcontractors, or lien waivers, such as those
Donald Trump got from subcontractors on the Taj Mahal Casino.
   Michigan has a pool funded by construction contractors to
pay subcontractors if a general contractor defaults.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Blind golfers tee off at a tournament today in
Orlando, Fla., for the RP Foundation Fighting Blindness. . .
. Mechanical and pig heart-valve patients toast 30 years of
implants Sunday with surgeon Albert Starr at a Portland,
Ore., barbecue. Pork won't be served.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Focus:
   Allianz's U.S. Purchase Tests Global Plan
   ---
   Fireman's Fund Is a Big
   Part of Firm's Expansion
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   G.ALL X.FRE FFC F.CNM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   MUNICH, West Germany -- Wolfgang Schieren's team had
strict orders to refer to the target only by the code name
"Red."
   That is how the chief executive of West German insurance
giant Allianz Versicherungs AG hoped to keep his competitors
from discovering that he was about to gobble up Fireman's
Fund Insurance Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But now, after finally announcing that he is buying the
U.S. insurer for $3.3 billion, Mr. Schieren is under pressure
to show that his acquisition was worth all the mystery.
   The acquisition has stirred comment among critics who
contend that Allianz may be paying too much for Fireman's.
Moreover, the move comes at a time when Europe's largest
insurance group is already stretched thin from a variety of
new undertakings, including a majority stake in East
Germany's former insurance monopoly and a joint venture in
Hungary.
   While no one questions the Munich-based group's ability to
bankroll its activities, the integration of Fireman's Fund is
shaping up as the ultimate test of Allianz's aspiration to
become a global insurance giant.
   Allianz's strength begins at home. After World War II,
Allianz quickly grew to four times the size of its closest
domestic competitor, capturing 14% of the German market for
life insurance and 16% of that for non-life insurance. The
group also boasts a central position within the German
economy, owing partly to its 25% cross-holding with
Muenchener Rueckversicherungs AG, one of the world's largest
reinsurers, and a tight web of boardroom and equity ties to
German companies and banks.
   Allianz has 223 subsidiaries world-wide and posted
consolidated group net profits in 1989 of 1.16 billion marks
($740.8 million).
   This may help to explain the calm confidence of Mr.
Schieren, who joined Allianz as a salesman in 1956 and has a
reputation as a hard-driving competitor. Speaking in his
office overlooking the leafy expanses of Munich's English
Garden, the 63-year-old executive insists that the group will
have no trouble absorbing the new ventures, including
Fireman's Fund. He concedes, however, that Allianz is
entering a "consolidation phase," rather than a period of
continued rapid expansion.
   Mr. Schieren's global strategy is simple. He envisions a
world insurance market with three big prizes -- the U.S.,
Europe and Asia -- and he has set his sights on gaining
leading positions in all three. With Allianz's deep pockets
and the long-term outlook necessary to ride out most
financial storms, its prospects for achieving its goals are
good.
   But with so much coming together at once, some observers
wonder whether Allianz may have taken on more than it can
handle. The 270 million mark acquisition of a majority stake
in East Germany's former state-run insurance monopoly is
expected to cost Allianz dearly -- perhaps two billion marks
over the first three to five years. Allianz is also planning
to expand its stake in the French group Via/Rhin &amp; Moselle,
the insurance subsidiary of Cie. de Navigation Mixte, to 65%
from 50%.
   The group's efforts to enter the largest Asian market,
Japan, are all but stalled. Allianz is indirectly active in
Japan through its control of Britain's Cornhill Insurance
PLC, but is experiencing Japanese bureaucratic delays in
receiving permission to establish a full subsidiary.
   Europe is Allianz's big success story -- and the one
market that is helping to define strategies for the group's
expansion elsewhere. Mr. Schieren, who took over the top job
at Allianz in 1971, led the group's foreign-buying campaign.
Allianz is the second-largest insurer in Italy and Austria,
and a fast-rising power in France and Spain.
   Having conquered Europe, it was only a matter of time
before Mr. Schieren found a U.S. company that suited his
needs.
   The U.S. market carries plenty of risk for Allianz. Even
before the latest signs of weakening in the U.S. economy, the
insurance sector was caught in a prolonged slump, with the
outlook for the property-casualty business especially bleak.
And profits in the U.S. insurance market have been squeezed
by the sort of bare-knuckle competition that few Europeans
experience on their home turf.
   Until now, Allianz was represented in the U.S. by six
smaller subsidiaries, covering only 20 states. With Fireman's
Fund, Allianz will be represented in all 50 states. It will
also gain a business that is 80% commercial -- a crucial
element, since commercial insurance is the area Mr. Schieren
is developing as a global specialty.
   Fireman's Fund, based in Novato, Calif., is ranked 15th in
the world in terms of premiums, which last year totaled $3.4
billion.
   Mr. Schieren is convinced that the U.S. market remains a
good investment, regardless of the current problems, which he
sees as part of a normal business cycle.
   Friedrich Schiefer, the Allianz board member in charge of
finance, says that by concentrating on commercial lines and
taking advantage of Allianz's know-how, Fireman's Fund should
start expanding its volume of business in the next five to 10
years and should realize average pretax earnings of $250
million a year over the next half decade.
   But nagging questions about Fireman's Fund remain. In
recent years the company has heavily retrenched, selling off
its operations in Asia and pumping money into reserves for
future claims on health-liability and general-liability
business written on its books at the beginning of the 1980s.
The company has seen its premiums and market share shrink for
the last three years in a row, and it performed below
industry averages for the last five.
   Mr. Schieren maintains that the restructuring has left
Fireman's Fund leaner and healthier -- and a more attractive
acquisition.
   Allianz also sees benefits for itself in the structure of
the acquisition. Under the terms of the agreement, Allianz
will hand over $3.3 billion in cash for 100% of the insurance
stock held by Fireman's parent, Fund American Cos. Fund
American will then buy back $2.2 billion of non-insurance
equities now linked to Fireman's Fund, including oil and gas
holdings. The $2.2 billion in cash will go back into
Fireman's Fund to build up its reserves. "In one move, we're
free," says Mr. Schieren. "We have money in our hands, and we
can use it to buy what we want to buy."
   Mr. Schieren makes no secret that he is glad to be rid of
the non-insurance equities. In the future, he says, the
asset-management policy of Fireman's Fund will more closely
reflect the conservative approach of its West German owners.
The present management of Fireman's Fund, however, will stay
in place.
   Allianz officials insist that, by all standard measures,
they are paying the right amount for Fireman's Fund. One rule
of thumb, for example, is that one dollar of premium should
roughly equal one dollar of sale price. In these terms, the
$3.3 billion price tag-compared with the company's $3.4
billion of premium incomeseems on target.
   However, critics of the deal argue that two factors -- the
sluggish U.S. market and the mixed performance of Fireman's
Fund -- still make the price relatively hefty. "It looks as
though Allianz is paying full price for a company just
because they wanted to be big in the U.S.," says one industry
analyst.
   This isn't the first time Allianz has been accused of
paying too much for a foreign acquisition. In 1979, some
observers contended that the company had "overpaid and
overstretched itself" when it bought North American Life &amp;
Casualty Co. and Fidelity Union Life Insurance Co. for more
than $500 million. Both companies now make solid profits.
   The same has happened with many of Allianz's European
acquisitions, helping to reinforce the notion that Allianz
has a magic touch when it comes to picking out and grooming
long-term winners.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Schieren, who plans to retire in 1992,
remains confident that he can wield his magic touch in all
his new ventures. The acquisition of Fireman's Fund must
still get approval from regulators, but this isn't expected
to pose any problem, and the deal could be concluded as early
as next January.
   Although an investigation by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission into possible insider-trading activity in
connection with the Fireman's Fund acquisition is continuing,
it is unlikely to have any impact on the sale. The SEC is
looking into unusually heavy trading in Fund American stock
and options in the days before Allianz announced the
acquisition of Fireman's Fund.
   "The leak certainly couldn't have come from here," says
Mr. Schieren, adding that "not even my trusted secretary"
knew the name of the company involved in the negotiations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CrossLand's Plan
   To Boost Capital
   Is Rejected by U.S.
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CRL
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Federal regulators turned down a plan by
CrossLand Savings for meeting new capital requirements but
gave the thrift until the end of 1991 to devise a new plan.
   Under its proposal, CrossLand, the biggest thrift outside
California, would have converted $380 million in preferred
stock, which can't be counted as core capital, into common
shares, which do count toward the new capital standards. With
a 1.6% ratio of capital to assets, CrossLand falls at least
$335.6 million short of satisfying the 3% level required by
law. The conversion of the preferred into common shares would
have satisfied the 3% requirement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, CrossLand, which has $12.8 billion in assets,
said that the Office of Thrift Supervision has indicated that
it wants an even higher level of capital for CrossLand
because of its relatively large exposure to commercial real
estate loans. Nonperforming assets, largely commercial real
estate loans, stood at $563 million as of June 30.
   The OTS gave CrossLand until Dec. 31, 1991, to come up
with a new plan to meet the capital requirements.
   Maurice Reissman, chairman, president and chief executive
officer, said that it was his understanding that the OTS
didn't object to the conversion of the preferred shares into
common but rather wanted CrossLand to raise more capital.
   Mr. Reissman called the new deadline "an appropriate
amount of time." He added, "The game plan, candidly is to
wait until the OTS tells us the capital requirement that they
want us to meet. It is still my intent to go back to the
preferred shareholders and ask them to convert into common
equity."
   CrossLand could meet the higher capital standards through
asset sales as well as raising new equity.
   An earlier plan to have Chicago's Pritzker family and New
York investor Alvin Dworman invest $150 million in CrossLand
in return for 85% of its common stock was scuttled in March
because of shareholders' objections.
   If the OTS calls for a significantly higher capital level
for CrossLand than the rest of the industry, analysts said
that the Brooklyn-based thrift faces an uphill fight, despite
its attractive consumer franchise with 82 branches in New
York, Florida, New Jersey and elsewhere. Henry Peltz, a
securities analyst with Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc., said,
"They'll have a hard time. CrossLand is more or less being
kept alive by sufferance."
   In addition, the federal Office of Thrift Supervision
imposed new restrictions on CrossLand, including directives
not to make any new loans other than residential mortgage and
consumer loans without federal permission.
   The OTS loan restrictions won't pose a serious problem for
CrossLand, Mr. Peltz said. In the last six months, CrossLand
has shed $1.4 billion in assets and in in the past 18 months
has pared its junk bond portfolio down to $19.5 million from
$193 million.
   In the second quarter, CrossLand posted a loss of $40
million, or $3.64 a share, after taking a $50 million special
charge for problem real estate loans.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, CrossLand closed unchanged at 87.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stocks, Bonds Tumble as Oil Soars
   ---
   Credit Markets:
   Long-Term Treasury
   Yield Exceeds 9%;
   But Buyers Are Few
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   ABC CMDA CAW X.AST FRE FNM EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on long-term Treasury bonds exceeded
the psychologically important 9% mark as oil prices surged to
their highest level since 1985.
   But the benchmark bond's high yield, which attracted herds
of investors on previous occasions, sparked little excitement
among investors yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It appears that 9% is not the magic level," said Michael
Moran, manager of government securities trading at Donaldson,
Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp. "People are too spooked by
the prospects of what could happen in the Mideast to try to
decide" if now is the right time to buy bonds. He said
trading activity was extremely light yesterday, with few
people willing to take on new investment positions.
   For days, some bond market analysts had predicted a bond
market rally as soon as yields on long-term securities hit
9%. But these analysts may have underestimated the depth of
bearishness pervading the bond market. That bearishness,
fueled by inflation fears, continues to drive investors away
from bonds while putting upward pressure on yields. Inflation
cuts the value of fixed-income investments by reducing the
inflation-adjusted return.
   In trading yesterday, the yield on the Treasury's
benchmark 30-year bond ended at about 9.05%, the highest
closing yield on a benchmark bond this year. The bond's price
fell 1 1/8 points, a loss of about $11.25 for a bond with a
$1,000 face amount.
   "Bond yields are very attractive, but this is not the
right time to jump into the market," said Sung Won Sohn,
senior vice president and chief economist at Norwest Corp.,
Minneapolis. "As soon as investors see the market stabilize,
then I think we will see a whole lot of people jumping into
the market to take advantage of the yields. But we are not
there yet."
   The bond market started to lose ground in early trading
when investors concluded that the Federal Reserve wasn't in
the process of lowering short-term interest rates. On
Tuesday, the possibility that the Fed was on the verge of
easing emerged when the federal funds rate slipped to 7 3/4%
from its target level of 8% shortly after the Fed executed $2
billion in customer repurchase agreements. Although many
economists said the Fed action was merely technical in nature
and designed to offset reserve shortages in the banking
system, a few investors thought the Fed was in the process of
cutting rates.
   But when the Fed failed to enter the market yesterday,
that sent a clear signal that the nation's central bank isn't
yet ready to change monetary policy.
   Bond prices began to deteriorate rapidly later in the day
as crude oil prices soared in heavy trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. The crude oil futures contract for
October delivery ended at $31.22 a barrel, up $2.51 on the
day.
   The declines in long-term government securities prices
"were all a result of the spike in crude oil prices," said
Kevin Flanagan, money market economist at Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc. "Whatever happened in oil, the credit market
showed a mirror reflection."
   At the heart of the energy price spike is the perception
among oil investors and consumers that the flow of oil from
the Persian Gulf will dwindle as the Iraq-Kuwait conflict
intensifies.
   Comments by an Israeli official that war between the U.S.
and Iraq was "inevitable" added fuel to the fire, while
President Bush's comment that Americans should try to
conserve energy did nothing to assuage investors' fear that
an oil shortage is imminent.
   In addition to fears of inflation and rising oil prices,
dealers said investors are worried about the market's ability
to absorb a large amount of new Treasury notes to be sold
next week.
   The Treasury announced yesterday that it will auction
$11.5 billion of two-year notes next Tuesday and $8.5 billion
of five-year two-month notes on Wednesday.
   Today, the Treasury will sell $10.5 billion of 52-week
bills.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury bonds were sharply lower due to fears of
inflation, rising oil prices and the realization that the
Federal Reserve is not yet ready to reduce short-term
interest rates.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of
96 26/32, down from 97 30/32 on Tuesday. The issue's yield,
which moves in the opposite direction from its price, jumped
to 9.05% from 8.94%.
   Shorter-term Treasury securities showed smaller declines.
Prices of two-year notes, for example, fell to 99 17/32 from
99 21/32 on Tuesday, while the yield rose to 8.24% from
8.17%.
   Treasury bills were mixed. Three-month bills showed little
change as the discount rate on the 90-day bills finished at
7.59% to yield 7.83%, compared with 7.58% to yield 7.82% on
Tuesday. The discount rate on six-month bills rose, however,
to 7.52% to yield 7.90%. That compares with 7.48% to yield
7.86% on Tuesday.
                                                                                                       

   Junk/Corporate Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Junk bonds followed stock prices lower yesterday, with
most issues posting declines of between 1/4 and 3/8 point.
   "The whole market is in disarray," said James Spirrison, a
senior vice president in the high-yield department at
Chicago-based Rodman &amp; Renshaw. "Nobody wants to do anything
at all."
   So far this week, the junk bond market has fallen 1.74%,
according to First Boston Corp.'s high-yield index. For the
month, the junk bond market has generated a negative return
of 3.74%.
   Sam DeRosa-Farag, a First Boston analyst, said the
hardest-hit sectors are food, housing, retail, air
transportation and financial sectors. Mr. DeRosa-Farag said
that deferred pay bonds have declined more than the
cash-paying bonds and junior securities have been hurt more
than senior and senior secured bonds.
   Among the junk bonds that took a beating yesterday:
   -- AmBase Corp.'s 14.875% senior subordinated notes fell 9
1/8 points to 62 on the New York Stock Exchange after
plummeting more than eight points Tuesday. Traders cited
concerns about the company's sale of its Home Insurance Co.
unit.
   -- Charter Medical Corp.'s 14.25% senior subordinated
debentures fell two points to end at 20. The health-care
company said late Tuesday that the Securities and Exchange
Commission plans to review its 1988 management-led leveraged
buy-out.
   -- Caesars World Inc. bonds slipped after the casino
operator reported quarterly earnings of $7.4 million, down
from $16.4 million in the year-ago period. Its 13.50%
subordinated notes slid 3/8 point to 100 1/8.
   Meanwhile, recently depressed junk bonds of American
Standard Inc. rebounded slightly. The company's 12.875%
senior subordinated debentures added 3/4 point to end at 89.
A spokeswoman couldn't explain the recent activity.
   In the investment-grade corporate bond market, high-grade
issues showed losses across the board. Long-term corporate
issues declined the most, falling 5/8 point on average.
Intermediate corporate bonds, by comparison, shed 3/8 to 1/2
point.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Issues

   Municipal bonds were broadly lower, with some issues down
as much as 1 1/2 points.
   "The market is getting crushed," said one trader. "They're
not leaving anything behind."
   In the secondary market, New Jersey Turnpike Authority's
7.20% bonds maturing in 2018 were 1 1/8 point lower at 96 1/2
to yield 7.46%.
   The turmoil in the secondary markets carried over to
new-issue dealings, where new offerings were being priced
lower than comparable secondary issues, traders said.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   In the mortgage-securities market, the 9 1/2% coupons for
September delivery from Government National Mortgage
Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. and Federal
National Mortgage Association were all down 11/32, as were
the 9% coupons from the three agencies.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Investors went on a modest buying spree in many European
bond markets, pushing prices higher for the first time in
several days.
   Traders said investor interest was stimulated by yields
that have reached what investors consider attractive levels.
   West German bonds posted gains for the first time in five
sessions as yields exceeded or approached 9%.
   Bonn's 8 3/4% bond due 2000 rose 0.20 point to 98.80 to
yield 8.93%. The latest 10-year issue, the 8 1/2% bond due
2000, rose 0.10 point to 96.80 to yield 9%.
   French government bonds ended higher for the first time in
four trading days. Among benchmark issues, the 8.5% issue due
2019 rose 0.11 from late Tuesday in Paris to 81.57 to yield
10.53%.
   British government bonds were modestly higher. The 11 3/4%
benchmark bond due 2003/2007 was quoted late at 98 3/32, up
9/32 from late Tuesday, to yield 12.00%.
   But in Tokyo, selling in the futures market, rising
short-term interest rates and a weak stock market weakened
the Japanese government bond market.
   At the Tokyo Stock Exchange close, the benchmark No. 119
10-year bond was quoted at a price of 83.03, down 0.17, to
yield 8.105%.
   (Foreign bond yields are quoted here in local terms and
therefore differ somewhat from yields calculated for these
markets by U.S. investment firms, which tend to use the
semiannual compound measure to compare yields across markets.
Using that method, the yield on Japan's No. 119 bond ended at
7.46%, according to Salomon Brothers Inc.)
   ---
   Robert Sherman and Anita Raghavan contributed to this
article.
   (See related story: "Wednesday's Markets: Dow Slumps 43.81
as Broad Indexes Fall to 52-Week Lows" -- WSJ Aug. 23, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Mission-Valley Bancorp:
   Merger Agreement Is Signed
   With Alameda, Calif., Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MVBC NCCB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mission-Valley Bancorp, Pleasanton, Calif., said it and
Northern California Community Bancorp. signed a letter of
intent to merge.
   Terms call for shareholders of each bank to swap their
holdings for new shares of the combined entity, which would
be called California Bancshares Inc. As of now,
Mission-Valley holders would receive one new share of
California Bancshares for each share held; Northern
California Community holders would receive 1.23 California
Bancshares shares for each share held.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Northern California Community is based in Alameda, Calif.
   The new bank would have about $775 million in assets. It
would be made up of nine community banks in mostly smaller
communities near San Francisco and San Jose.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   General Motors Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   GM WNEWS GMH
</CO>
<LP>
   GENERAL MOTORS Corp. (Detroit) -- Robert J. Dankanyin,
vice president for diversification with Hughes Aircraft Co.,
was elected a senior vice president of the El Segundo,
Calif., unit. He remains head of the company's
diversification program and continues as a member of the
Hughes policy board. He also was named to the executive
management committee. David R. Barclay, staff vice president
for human resources development with Hughes, was elected to
the new post of vice president for work force diversity. The
Hughes unit is an electronics firm specializing in
high-technology products for military, scientific and
commercial use.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Gold Gets a Further Boost From Mideast Tension;
   December Contract Gains $3.30, but Volume Eases
   ----
   By John Valentine
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mideast tensions continued to boost gold futures prices,
although trading volume was lower than in several recent
sessions.
   December delivery gold ended with a gain of $3.30 an ounce
at $419.30. The close was just $1 below the intraday high and
nearly $3 above the day's low of $416.50. Trading was
moderate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is an extremely political market, with traders
watching everything that is being said and done by both Iraq
and the U.S.," said Sharon Ziemian, a Citibank vice
president. "Market fundamentals aren't having much weight at
the moment."
   The armed standoff between the U.S. and Iraq in the
Persian Gulf region is underpinning the gold price, she said,
"because everyone is aware that it's the type of situation
that can blow up at any moment."
   Demand for bullion is mostly at the "high end" of the
market, she said, explaining that buying interest was mostly
from well-financed professional international investors
rather than from smaller ones.
   Ms. Ziemian also said a pattern has developed in recent
weeks in which the gold market is active and strong early in
the week, then tends to ease in price and volume as the
weekend approaches.
   "This is still August, after all, and people are going
away on weekends," she said, "so there's a tendency to
continue to follow the summer custom. But many traders are
adjusting their positions before going away so that they
won't be vulnerable in case of any unexpected developments."
   Gold trading was quieter than might have been expected in
view of the strength in oil prices, said Dinsa Mehta, chief
bullion trader for Chase Manhattan Bank. "Gold's $15 price
swing and lower close on Tuesday shell-shocked some traders,"
Mr. Mehta said. "Gold has lost some of its `fear premium.'"
   Mr. Mehta also pointed out that higher interest rates have
cut into investor interest in gold. "This has taken the edge
off the lower interest rates/higher oil price combination
that had been fueling the gold price rise lately," he said.
   "Right now, gold remains an event-driven market.
Technicals are out; fundamentals are out. Bullets flying in
the Middle East could drive the December price up to and
beyond the $425 level."
   Vahid Fathi, analyst for Prescott, Ball &amp; Turben,
Cleveland, said December gold is poised to test the $425
level for the fifth time in recent months.
   "Gold is drawing major support from a very weak dollar,
and if it penetrates above $425 it could go as high as $475,"
he said. But if it fails to do so this time, he said, it
could remain "locked in a range of between $400 and $425 in
the intermediate term."
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Futures prices rose, with the October contract
ending with a gain of 0.64 cent a pound at 73.12 cents. More
than a week of hot and dry conditions in the major
Mississippi River Delta cotton-growing area has renewed
concern over cotton supplies, one analyst said. Total U.S.
inventories of cotton at the end of the 1989-90 season on
July 31 are estimated to have been only 2.9 million bales,
the slimmest in 20 years, the analyst said. This could cause
concern if strong mill demand develops for October delivery
cotton, according to the analyst. However, another analyst
said the 1990-91 cotton crop has already begun to be
harvested in the Rio Grande Valley and that during the next
three months a glut could develop as an estimated 14.8
million bales hit the market. "Dealers aren't equipped to buy
and store that much cotton, especially in view of the tighter
bank financing which has developed," the analyst said.
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK AND MEATS: Cattle futures prices rose on tight
cattle supplies and strong cash prices for beef, while pork
belly and hog futures declined slightly. Analysts said the
pattern of strong prices for beef and weak prices for pork
could become a trend throughout the fall. Analysts had been
expecting a livestock report that was released after the
close of trading Tuesday to show movement of eight million to
nine million pork bellies out of cold storage outside
Chicago, but the report showed movement of only about 5.9
million bellies, which are used to make bacon. That, coupled
with a seasonally high number of freshly killed hogs, exerted
downward pressure on cash prices and futures prices, said
Thomas Morgan, president of Sterling Research Corp.,
Arlington Heights, Ill.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Futures prices rose slightly, as
traders offered up yet another possible explanation for the
huge position of Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.'s futures trading
arm in soybean oil futures contracts. The unit had been
thought to be holding a majority of all receipts for delivery
of soybean oil based on July and August futures contracts,
which show ownership of the oil stored in warehouses. Trading
in the July contract ended last month, and trading in the
August contract ended yesterday. The new rumor holds that one
reason ADM may be seeking to control such a large quantity of
soybean oil is to keep profit margins high for processing
soybeans into oil and meal. At the moment, profit on crushing
soybeans is about 50 cents a bushel, the difference between
the actual cost of crushing -- about 35 cents a bushel -- and
what the converted products are worth on the market.
Archer-Daniels is one of only five major companies that crush
soybeans into oil and meal, and limiting availability of oil
may help it keep profit for the processing high, according to
some traders. The Chicago Board of Trade was thought to be
worried that ADM's position signaled an intent to corner the
soybean oil market. ADM remained mum on the reasons for its
position.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   McCaw's '80s-Style Debt Is a Drag in '90s
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MCAWA LINB BTY COMM RTG USWNA USW
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Once-highflying McCaw Cellular Communications
now seems to be caught in a downdraft.
   McCaw's problem is that it is a 1980s-style company.
Nurtured by the now defunct junk-bond house Drexel Burnham
Lambert, it piled on debt to buy mobile-telephone territory
at high prices. But with the economy faltering, McCaw is
losing favor with skeptical investors who don't like debt and
aren't sure how to value media assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In recent weeks, McCaw shares have been knocked down to 17
3/4, off 1 yesterday, from 27 3/4 in mid-July, and some bears
predict the selling isn't over. McCaw, which is getting hit
harder than other cellular stocks, traded as high as 47 last
year. McCaw's junk bonds also have been coming under fire.
   "I'm not optimistic about McCaw" stock, says Gordon Fines,
a fund manager at IDS Financial Services. Earlier this year,
he dumped McCaw shares when they were trading in the 30s.
   McCaw, once the darling of media investors, is the
nation's biggest cellular phone player. It grew crazily in
recent years as its go-go chief, Craig McCaw, bet the ranch
to build a national cellular network, bidding up prices for
cellular systems that he wanted to buy.
   McCaw keeps posting losses, but revenue in the past five
years has grown seventeenfold, to a projected $500 million or
more this year. Starry-eyed cellular fans expect the company
to double in size in the next couple of years. They envision
a day when everyone will own a Dick Tracy-style wristwatch
with a mobile phone, making McCaw hugely profitable.
   But now McCaw, after buying half of LIN Broadcasting in
March, is saddled with total debt of more than $4 billion and
an annual interest bill of roughly $390 million.
   Moreover, the cellular phone business is facing its first
nationwide recession. Some analysts think that in hard times
many owners of mobile phones might stop using them -- typical
bills run at least $100 a month -- and they expect fewer
people to fork out a few hundred dollars to buy a cellular
phone.
   Even if McCaw continues to sign on new customers fast,
almost everybody thinks it will keep showing big losses for
several years. (In the second quarter, McCaw's loss was $60.7
million.) Nobody even expects McCaw's operations to produce
enough cash flow till 1992 or 1993 to pay interest on all its
debt. In the next four years, analyst Ben Bendre of Salomon
Brothers says McCaw's negative cash flow will total more than
$1 billion.
   Although McCaw has bank credit lines to cover the black
hole in its cash flow, analysts say the bankers could pull
back if McCaw starts missing performance targets defined in
its loan agreements.
   "If the economy worsens, there's pressure on McCaw," says
Bear Stearns analyst Kenneth Leon. In July, when McCaw shares
were around 26, he told clients to bail out. Meanwhile,
British Telecom, which in 1989 paid $1.5 billion for 20% of
McCaw, has seen the market value of its investment cut in
half.
   McCaw might need to raise more equity by issuing shares to
a big U.S. investor, Mr. Leon says -- a move that could bump
its stock down further. Alternatively, he says McCaw must
keep borrowing or selling assets -- in a climate where prices
for cellular systems are eroding.
   When McCaw won a bidding war for LIN, it paid $350 for
every person living in the markets where LIN operates, or
$350 "per pop," in Wall Street jargon. Soon after, McCaw sold
other cellular systems to Contel Cellular for only about $210
"per pop," though McCaw posted a big gain on the sale.
   Although LIN operates in prime markets, McCaw "paid a high
price" and might have trouble doing really well with the
acquisition, says Salomon's Mr. Bendre. Looking further out,
McCaw could face stiff rivalry from regional phone companies'
cellular units, as well as from new technologies.
   "I think there's still 50% air in McCaw stock," says
Michael Murphy, who publishes the Overpriced Stock Service in
San Francisco. "Cellular phones are a nice perk in good
times, but they're the most easily postponable expense in the
world."
   Rufus Lumry, McCaw's chief financial officer, says "I
would characterize us as a '90s company," not an '80s
company. McCaw has raised a lot of equity from British
Telecom and asset sales, he notes; shareholders equity now
exceeds $2 billion, though some of that will disappear as the
company keeps losing money. Mr. Lumry adds that in the
difficult '90s markets, McCaw's acquisition of LIN was among
the few deals to get bank financing.
   A McCaw spokesman says the company is doing better than
its bankers expected. Also, "we feel our financial structure
is prudent. We don't see the need for asset sales and I'm not
aware of any ongoing talks about issuing more equity." McCaw
has been through recessions in Texas and Oklahoma, he adds;
new subscribers kept signing up, though at a slower rate.
   Still, Bear Stearns's Mr. Leon says cellular fans might do
better with less-leveraged "plays" such as Cellular
Communications, Racal Telecom and U S West NewVector.
   Recently, some investors have been selling short McCaw
stock -- betting it will fall further -- and buying McCaw's
junk bonds. The company's 12.95% bonds due 1999, which last
year traded near 100 cents on the dollar, now are at 80 and
are yielding about 17.4%. That distressed level indicates
some bondholders think McCaw might have trouble paying its
debts. A short-seller sells borrowed shares, hoping to buy
them back later at a lower price.
   If McCaw exercises its option to buy the rest of LIN in
1995, it will need to raise an additional $5 billion -- or
put LIN up for sale. Since the McCaw-LIN merger, LIN stock,
at 54 1/8, down 2 7/8 yesterday, has fallen by about 25%.
   Of course, if leverage works for McCaw, it will be a titan
of the cellular business. With the purchase of fast-growing
LIN, McCaw is in six of the 10 top U.S. mobile-phone markets.
Last week, Goldman Sachs said it was still recommending
"aggressive purchase" of McCaw and majority-owned LIN.
   Goldman values McCaw's assets as high as $60 a share. But
in today's market, where investors look for cash flow and
earnings, it's hard to know where McCaw should trade.
   Even now, with the stock at 17 3/4, shareholders value all
of McCaw's equity at more than $3 billion, about equal to
long-term debt. In effect, stock players are judging McCaw to
be no riskier than, say, MCI Communications, says Robert
Long, who heads First Boston's junk-bond research. But MCI's
cash flow covers the company's interest expense and McCaw's
doesn't. Still, "I like McCaw's bonds for their 17% yields,"
Mr. Long says.
   Some McCaw bondholders say that if McCaw falters, it can
sell assets to pay them back. They figure that even if
cellular values fall to $90 per pop, McCaw's bonds will have
good value.
   But selling assets to pay debt was a 1980s game. If Donald
Trump can't sell prime Manhattan properties at awesome
prices, who knows what values McCaw's cellular systems will
fetch? "You need someone willing to buy, and able to finance
the purchase" of cellular assets, says one gloomy McCaw
bondholder.
   While McCaw has been well-run, Salomon's Mr. Bendre says,
"as recession sets in, you instinctively feel it will be a
damper" on McCaw's growth.
   McCaw's chief, nevertheless, is well fortified for the
future. Last year, he made $54 million, mostly by exercising
stock options that he got in the early 1980s.
   ---
   McCaw Cellular
   (OTC; Symbol: MCAWA)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Mobile telephone service
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Revenue: $504.1 million
   Net loss: $288.5 million*; or $1.95
   a share
                                                                                                       

   Second quarter, June 30, 1990:
   Net loss per-share: 34 cents vs. 65 cents

   Average daily trading volume:
   663,722 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 178.5 million
                                                                                                       

   *Includes $28.2 million gain from sale of assets
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Crusade to Reform Mexico's Ruling Party
   Gets Caught Up in the Political Machine
   ----
   By Matt Moffett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LEON, Mexico -- When delegates from Mexico's ruling
political party gather next week in the capital for a plenum
on democratic reform, don't look for Felipe Hidalgo. The
party bosses don't want him there.
   Mr. Hidalgo, a ruling-party dissident in Mexico's central
breadbasket, operates in a milieu of his own. "This is real
political dirty work," he says, hoping a bad joke will take
his mind off being shin-deep in the muck of a flooded,
unpaved barrio. Mr. Hidalgo is here organizing members of the
underclass to stand up to mail-fisted local bosses who
dominate the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But it isn't easy taking on the political machine that has
dominated Mexico for 61 years, the longest reign of any party
in the non-Communist world. Mr. Hidalgo's election as a local
delegate to the party congress was nullified arbitrarily by
hard-line higher-ups. Support for Mr. Hidalgo is being
siphoned off by a new PRI schism that claims to be seeking
democratic reform even though it is bankrolled by the party
executive committee.
   Worst of all, Mr. Hidalgo is being shadowed by a pair of
goons decked out like the Blues Brothers, in sunglasses,
slicked-back hair and designer jeans.
   "I have to begin to think seriously about what kind of
future I can hope for working with the PRI," says the
32-year-old Mr. Hidalgo, a smallish man with a barrel chest
and almost no neck.
   The U.S., which will soon begin negotiating a free-trade
agreement with Mexico, may begin mulling that question
itself. For as the U.S. and Mexican economies become
increasingly intertwined, Washington also becomes more
closely tied to one of the world's ever rarer authoritarian
political regimes.
   Efforts to reform the PRI are constrained by the same
rigid party structure that has long made Mexico a bulwark of
stability in an unstable region. For years, the Mexican
government ruled by cutting deals with leaders of the PRI's
three sectors: labor, peasants and a "popular" catchall. The
bosses, or "caciques", won economic privileges for themselves
and made sure that some material benefits trickled down to
their constituents.
   But today Mexico is more urbanized, economically diverse
and better-informed; the caciques are more resented by
society than representative of it. Moreover, as Mexico makes
the painful conversion to a market economy, less wealth
trickles down from the bosses to the masses. Increasingly,
the PRI must rely on intimidation and electoral fraud to
maintain control.
   Mexican political analysts believe the PRI must be
converted into a real political party with "authentic
leaders" who own public trust. "But every time you see an
authentic leader rise up in the PRI, he's beaten down by the
caciques," says Ricardo Pascoe, a leader of the leftist Party
of the Democratic Revolution.
   Mr. Hidalgo has been bumping up against corrupt officials
since he was a boy watching policemen shake down the cashier
in his grandfather's pool hall. Mr. Hidalgo didn't fight back
until he was in his early 20s. Tired of seeing his
neighborhood ignored by the public transport system, a
concession run by PRI caciques, he organized minivans to
shuttle residents in and out of the barrios. When the
caciques had him thrown in jail, hundreds of his neighbors
clamored for his release.
   "In that jail cell I changed," he says. Mr. Hidalgo found
his calling in politics and joined the PRI, hoping to change
it from within.
   Last year, Mr. Hidalgo joined a national movement to
reform the PRI called the Corriente Critica, or Critical
Current. Though they didn't intend to, old-line PRI bosses
became the dissident group's best promoters. Most of the
peasants in local communal farms came running to Mr. Hidalgo
after the PRI appointed an ex-convict to a key agricultural
post. Mr. Hidalgo won over one slum after residents took
offense at a finicky PRI leader who sponged his hands with
rubbing alcohol as he pressed the flesh.
   Quickly the Corriente Critica became a force. It helped
organize an embarrassing protest against the governor during
a visit by the president. Some communities have so taken to
speaking out that they hold regular town meetings to denounce
everything from price-gouging merchants to unfaithful
husbands. "People always called us the pillars of the party:
we never moved and were always silent," says Miguel Rubio, a
local leader. "But after Felipe got started, people began
paying attention to us."
   Some of the attention Mr. Hidalgo could do without.
Bounding out of the PRI offices one day, he catches a glimpse
of one of the men who has been tailing him. He still makes
his way to a nearby house, where he plans a protest over a
lagging street-repair program. But he seems anxious and
distracted throughout the discussion.
   The PRI establishment has more subtle ways of muffling
dissent. When Mr. Hidalgo called a news conference to
criticize the appointment of a PRI official, several
reporters showed up -- but not a single paragraph ran in the
local press. One local party official, nicknamed the King of
Tricks, not only blocked Mr. Hidalgo's nomination as a
delegate, but also saw to it that reformers were excluded
from top posts in the local party.
   Felipe Hidalgo is increasingly frustrated. One night he
drives to one of the worst barrios, San Felipe de Jesus,
where the only public works in evidence are the PRI slogans
painted on crumbling walls. Neighborhood leader Maria Zuniga
tells Mr. Hidalgo she has been lobbying for 50 taxi permits
for job-starved residents. She sat in the waiting room of the
local transportation chief's office for eight hours before
learning the permits had already been awarded to local union
bosses.
   "Felipe, what's happening to the Corriente Critica?" Mrs.
Zuniga asks. "It looks like we're being frozen out."
   "You have to be patient," Mr. Hidalgo says, trying to
sound cheerful. But as he pulls his pick-up truck out of the
mud, its clear Mr. Hidalgo is the one who needs bucking up.
"If there aren't any reforms in the PRI soon, I have to
consider getting a job where I feel some sense of
accomplishment," he says. Mr. Hidalgo sighs and glances
uneasily at the headlight winking in the rear-view mirror.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trump Takes
   Airline Shuttle
   Off the Market
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   X.TMP
</CO>
<IN>
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Donald Trump said he has taken the Trump Shuttle off the
market.
   Hours after signing the final closing documents on his $65
million bank bailout, Mr. Trump said in a telephone interview
that he pulled the shuttle from the market because it was now
a moneymaking operation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sale of the shuttle, which Mr. Trump purchased from
Eastern Airlines last year for $365 million, had been sought
by his bankers to ease the drain on his cash flow and help
restructure his troubled empire. Until recently, the shuttle
was showing losses even before debt payments were factored
in. In the past few months, Mr. Trump has said the shuttle
operations have improved and, under the bank deal, some of
the debts payments will be deferred. The improvement in
operations, however, could be stalled by recent increases in
oil prices.
   As part of Mr. Trump's agreement with his bankers,
interest payments on about $135 million of the debt service
on the shuttle will be deferred. Mr. Trump said that even
though the shuttle must continue making payments on its
remaining $245 million in debt, it is still making money.
"It's a great asset," he said.
   Mr. Trump's bankers have said in the past that the sale of
the shuttle would be an important component of getting Mr.
Trump back on his feet. Previously obtained documents show
Mr. Trump has already had losses of about $100 million since
purchasing the airline.
   In June, former Trump Shuttle President Bruce Nobles said
no bids had been received for the airline, though Mr. Trump
disputed that claim. Mr. Nobles was subsequently dismissed
from his position.
   Documents prepared by Mr. Trump's accounting firm, Kenneth
Leventhal &amp; Co., estimate that as a going market concern, the
shuttle has a value of $340 million. If sold as part of a
liquidation, the accounting firm estimated, the Shuttle would
only fetch between $150 and $300 million.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Trump announced that the "vast transaction"
with his bankers was completed, and suggested his recovery is
tied to a turnaround in the Northeast's economy. "Interest
rates must come down sharply, and credit, which is squeezing
every business, must be made available," he said.
   With the bank deal behind them, Mr. Trump's advisers said
they were now preparing a restructuring of his $1.3 billion
in casino debt. "This has been the most grueling assignment I
have ever been involved with," said Kenneth Leventhal
comanaging partner Stan Ross, who served as Mr. Trump's chief
liaison to the nearly 100 banks involved in the bailout.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- BICC PLC:
   First-Half Pretax Earnings
   Rose 7.5% to $191.2 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   U.BIC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BICC PLC of Britain reported a 7.5% rise in first-half
pretax profit to #100 million ($191.2 million) -- the top of
analysts' estimates -- from #93 million a year earlier, as
strong growth in the company's core cable business offset
sluggishness at its home building unit.
   Profit after taxes and minority interests, or profit
attributable to shareholders, increased 16% to #59 million
from #51 million. Per-share earnings rose 1.9% to 21.8 pence
from 21.4 pence. The year-earlier results included an
extraordinary loss of #1 million; the latest period didn't
have any special items.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales increased 9.7% to #1.94 billion from #1.77 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Squirreling Away Science
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (INR)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Both the Vatican Observatory and the Max Planck Institute
of Germany have now raised the possibility of abandoning a
$200 million telescope project with the University of Arizona
because of the many delays caused by environmentalist
litigation and bureaucratic bumbling -- all over the issue of
whether the project threatens the red squirrels on
10,000-foot Mount Graham. If in fact these delays over a
rodent kill the telescope project, it will be yet another
dark cloud over the climate for doing science in the U.S. Add
to this concern the recent articles expressing complaints
about the difficulty of conducting clinical-drug trials in
the U.S. and the assaults on medical-research laboratories
from animal-rights activists. The international science
community may soon conclude that it is increasingly difficult
to do serious work in the United States.
   In Arizona, the telescope project disappeared into the
bureaucrats' cave after the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
released an initial report in compliance with the Endangered
Species Act and the National Environmental Policy Act,
concluding that the Mount Graham red squirrel wouldn't be
terribly affected by the construction of the telescopes on
the Arizona mountain. Construction began. And then was
stalled by groups such as the Sierra Club. Then, dissenting
biologists from the Fish and Wildlife Service itself said the
red squirrels would be decimated.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And so the Sierra Club and others filed a lawsuit against
the government and the University of Arizona. The red
squirrel was also listed as a plaintiff, though it didn't
return our calls for comment. As it became clear that a
legal-bureaucratic web was being spun around the project to
kill it, the Arizona congressional delegation commissioned a
new report by the Fish and Wildlife Service, supposedly to
head off more litigation. While this report was being
assembled, the lawsuit was put on hold.
   That latest report concluded that while the original
biological opinion wasn't wrong, it wasn't sufficiently
thorough. It said, for instance, that the original study was
silent on the issue of "predation rates," noting that the
monitoring team saw a red squirrel killed by, of all things,
a spotted owl. Then there is the matter of "Global Climatic
Change," which is also "important for any long-term plan for
the Pinalenos. . . ." The report called for a re-examination
of the site.
   After the report's release, the university sought a
building permit from the U.S. Forest Service for construction
of Max Planck's telescope, which is ready to be installed.
The Forest Service believes it can issue the permit but is
reluctant to do so. The ball has now been booted to the
Justice Department, which is expected to provide an opinion
in the next few days untangling the dispute over the
construction permit.
   And oh yes, the environmentalists are threatening to sue
again. "I think the lawsuit will resurrect itself if they
start building again," says Robert Witzeman, spokesman for
the Maricopa Audubon Society, one of the plaintiffs in the
lawsuit. Mr. Witzeman feels that the university is "out to
lunch" and "irrational" for wanting to build the telescopes.
"No knowledge and no jobs will be lost" according to Mr.
Witzeman, if the telescopes are not built.
   Perhaps not, because the telescopes and the scientists who
go with them will likely be doing their work atop a mountain
in Switzerland, having long since concluded that serious
scientific minds aren't welcome in the United States, which
now belongs to the squirrels, owls and cuckoos.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   LVE WNEWS CRC
</CO>
<LP>
   WHO'S NEWS: Live Entertainment Inc. named Theodore E. Bean
executive vice president and chief financial officer. He is
currently executive vice president and chief financial
officer of K mart Corp.'s Pace Membership Warehouse Inc. He
will succeed Roger R. Smith, who becomes executive vice
president of Carolco Pictures Inc., which holds a 48% stake
in Live.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Veba AG:
   Group Net Income for Half
   Fell 1.5% to $250.2 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.VEB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Veba AG of West Germany, a diversified energy and trading
company, reported that first-half group net income slipped
1.5% to 391 million marks ($250.2 million) from 397 million
marks a year earlier.
   The company said the results were dragged down by the
petroleum and chemical sectors, where earnings declined from
"exceptionally good" year-earlier levels. But Veba said its
power generation, trading, transport and services businesses
had "stable profit levels" in the latest period. Pretax
earnings fell 5.2% to 981 million marks from 1.04 billion
marks. After taxes, profit eased 2.3% to 433 million marks
from 443 million marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   World-wide group sales rose 6.7% to 26.08 billion marks
from 24.43 billion marks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Worthen Banking Corp.:
   Plan Is Reached to Acquire
   TC Bankshares and a Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Worthen Banking Corp. said it signed a non-binding letter
of intent to acquire all preferred and common stock
outstanding of TC Bankshares Inc. and all preferred and about
98% of the common stock of Twin City Bank, a TC Bankshares
unit.
   The bank holding company said completion of the
transaction is subject to the parties reaching a definitive
agreement, approval by the Federal Reserve Board and Worthen
shareholders. Worthen also must obtain the necessary
financing. Worthen said it is considering a capital offering
in connection with the proposed transaction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If all necessary approvals are met, Worthen, based in
Little Rock, Ark., said it expects closing on or before Dec.
31. Worthen said the acquisition price would depend upon the
earnings of Twin City and TC Bankshares, both Arkansas-based
banking concerns, but will not exceed $75 million if closing
occurs by Dec. 31. If the closing occurs after that date, the
purchase price could exceed $75 million, depending on the two
firms' earnings, Worthen said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Troops Get
   Saudi Approval
   For Exercises
   ---
   Major Operations to Begin
   Today as Ridyadh Moves
   To Increase Cooperation
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEAR THE IRAQI BORDER, Saudi Arabia -- U.S. Army
paratroopers are scheduled to hold today what is believed to
be the largest exercise for ground troops since American
forces arrived here at the beginning of the month.
   The exercise, important to demonstrate that thousands of
U.S. troops can work together in the harsh desert
environment, got the go-ahead after Saudi leaders reversed
their initial opposition to such large-scale troop movements,
according to U.S. military officials. The cautious and
tradition-bound Saudis have been reluctant to allow
large-scale maneuvers by U.S. troops until now.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Approval for the exercise came this past week as the
Saudis also made more airfield and training areas available
to U.S. forces, especially those protecting vital oil,
shipping and other industrial facilities in the northeast
region.
   "There is still some reluctance by the Saudis about where
we can go and where we can train," said Maj. Baxter Ennis,
the spokesman for the Army's 82nd Airborne Division from Fort
Bragg, N.C. But, he said, the situation has "improved
dramatically" in recent days.
   When Defense Secretary Dick Cheney visited troops last
weekend, Col. Gene Cole, the division's aviation commander,
praised the Saudi government's cooperation. "We've had
excellent support" from the Saudi military, Col. Cole told
the secretary, adding that his troops were "totally confident
that we can do the mission."
   But a visit with an Army platoon handling anti-tank tow
weapons in the 115 degree desert heat, shows that some day
and night exercises still are being blocked by Saudi
opposition. "As they start giving us more freedom to
operate," said one soldier, "our troops will get better
acclimated to living in the desert."
   This past week, cargo planes received permission to use
additional landing strips throughout the country to speed up
the flow of men and war materials, according to U.S. military
officials.
   A group of reporters watched a giant long-range C-5 cargo
aircraft land at one of those isolated strips, which also had
dozens of the Army's anti-tank helicopters and combat
vehicles lined up on the tarmac guarded by U.S. troops.
   While the sprawling airfield has a six-story control tower
and huge storage buildings, it isn't near any major highway
and is difficult to spot among the rolling sand dunes.
   Military officials here declined to provide details, and
reporters are restricted from disclosing the specifics of
such bases and exercises.
   In many units, only about half of the soldiers have had
the opportunity to actually train in the Saudi desert,
according to officers and enlisted men. The troops are
conserving ammunition and missiles by not doing any actual
firing during exercises. Even the vehicles that the 82nd
Airborne brought into the area seem strangely out of place:
Their khaki-green color must be changed by slapping on mud or
some other type of camouflage to make them blend into the
desert.
   "We're oriented toward the jungle and city warfare, not
the desert," one soldier told reporters with a shrug.
   But by other measures, the U.S. deployment is proceeding
fairly smoothly. The American military presence has grown so
large that convoys of Army vehicles mingle freely with the
cars being driven on the coastal road that links some of the
country's major oil and chemical facilities.
   Marines and some of the Army's most potent tanks are
expected to replace paratroopers in some forward positions.
One 19-year-old private from Tulsa, Okla., summed it up this
way: "The Saudis built all the airfields, underground bunkers
and bases necessary to protect their country. Now, we're
putting in U.S. troops to get the most out of that
investment."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Obscure Law That Gives GIs a Break
   On Rates Stirs Concern Among Banks
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   A nearly forgotten law that allows servicemen to reduce
interest rates on consumer loans has become a hot topic in
the military in recent days and is causing concern in the
banking community.
   The law, part of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief
Act of 1940, allows individuals in the armed services to
limit the interest rates they pay on credit cards, car,
student and other personal loans to 6% as long as the debts
were incurred before they joined the military. The provision
gives reservists who are called to active duty the same
benefits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   No one knows why the obscure provision has suddenly come
to the attention of servicemen. But as the Persian Gulf
conflict escalates and thousands of reservists are called up,
banking lawyers are worrying about the scope of the law's
impact.
   The American Banker, which first reported the concern over
the law, said no one is sure how many loans might be
affected. But Laurence E. Platt, a Washington, D.C., attorney
who represents consumer banks, speculates that if tens of
thousands of reservists are called to active service as
President Bush has proposed, "it's going to be a major
problem" for banks. "My clients tell me their phones are
ringing off the hook," he said.
   Mr. Platt says these reservists are typically older than
most enlisted personnel and are thus more likely to have
taken out loans. They are probably paying interests rates
ranging from 10% for mortgages to 18% for credit-card loans,
Mr. Platt says.
   The potential problem for the banks is that the law
doesn't require the federal government to compensate them for
the money lost from the interest-rate reduction. Mr. Platt
says that banks now may attack the law as taking of property
without just compensation, which is barred by the Fifth
Amendment.
   But Mark Burneko, spokesman for the American Bankers
Association in Washington, which represents about 10,000
banks, says, "We tend to believe the overall effect will be
slight."
   Mr. Burneko says the association's lawyers believe
borrowers will have to show that they suffered a financial
hardship because they left their higher-paid, private-sector
jobs for the military. But Mr. Burneko says he thinks that
proving financial hardship will be difficult because the
reservists probably won't see lengthy action and because the
salary gap between the private sector and the military isn't
as wide as it used to be.
   Mr. Platt, however, says he believes the law places the
burden of disproving financial hardship on the lender, which
will have to take the borrower to court. All the borrowers
have to do is apply for the reduction, and Mr. Platt says
that began happening 10 days ago.
   The interest-rate provision of the law hasn't been
updated. When the law was passed 50 years ago, a 4% interest
rate was the norm. Congress, Mr. Platt says, intended only to
prevent banks from boosting rates above 6%.
   A spokesman for the House Committee on Veterans Affairs
says the panel is reviewing the law with an eye toward
updating it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- Working With Japan:
   Things Change When Japanese Buy Small U.S. Firms
   ---
   But Biggest Impact Often Is Financial
   Support Without Much Interference
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   {Last of a series}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Employees had never seen the likes of the bash at
Materials Research Corp. last November. The host was Sony USA
Inc., the new owner of the troubled company. While the 500
guests nibbled nervously on sushi, sashimi, hot dogs and
hamburgers, two top Sony executives assured them their jobs
were safe.
   As the party ended, the company gave each employee an
extra week's pay, a Sony Walkman and a copy of "Made in
Japan" by Akio Morita, chairman of Sony Corp., Sony USA's
parent.
   More to the point, Materials Research is now flourishing.
Flush with millions in Sony capital, the Orangeburg, N.Y.,
maker of semiconductor equipment has hired 200 workers and
started developing three projects. Revenue is on the rise
again.
   Materials Research isn't alone. Japanese companies bought
54 small U.S. firms in this year's first half, double that of
the first half of 1989, says KPMG Peat Marwick, a New
York-based accounting firm.
   "Until we find a way to finance small technology companies
that need large sums of money, more and more entrepreneurs
will turn to Japan," says venture capitalist Glenn Mueller of
the Mayfield Fund in Menlo Park, Calif. Japanese buyers often
provide long-term capital that small companies can't find
here, he adds. Increasingly, traditional U.S. venture-capital
firms shy away from early-stage startup investments and other
risky deals.
   Small U.S. concerns already work with Japanese investors
and suppliers. But the greatest potential impact begins when
the Japanese actually buy a U.S. concern.
   Among other things, the acquisitions heighten fears of
some Americans that the Japanese are buying key U.S.
technology concerns to gain the upper hand in business and
trade. American workers often complain that their new
Japanese bosses don't involve them in key decisions. Others
say the Japanese tend to hire and fire Americans without the
concern shown at home to loyal Japanese employees.
   But the managers at acquired companies say new Japanese
owners often take pains to minimize tensions and give
Americans a large degree of autonomy. "We're working on the
same development projects we began before the acquisition,"
says Sheldon Weinig, who founded Materials Research in 1958
and is still chairman and chief executive.
   Materials Research financed itself for years through
equity and debt. But along with many semiconductor companies,
it fell out of favor with investors and lenders in the
mid-1980s.
   In July 1989, after receiving a bid from a European
company, Mr. Weinig contacted Sony, with which it was
exploring joint ventures. In less than a week, Sony offered
to buy the firm for $58 million -- almost 50% above the
market price.
   Since then, Sony has financed a major expansion of the
company's research and development efforts, the hiring of new
scientists and engineers and the construction of a new
materials plant in Japan. It also is paying back Materials
Research's $16 million loan from a bank syndicate.
   And while Materials Research is working on a number of
Sony projects, there are few outward signs of Sony's
presence. The biggest one is a company store that sells the
entire Sony line at a discount.
   Yet Japanese ownership does change life in many ways.
Three years ago, for instance, Fujitsu Ltd., the Japanese
computer maker, acquired Intellistor Inc., a Longmont, Colo.,
disk-drive designer.
   Now Intellistor engineers regularly visit Fujitsu's U.S.
headquarters in San Jose, Calif., to discuss new designs and
projects. Many Intellistor employees also travel to Tokyo in
"an attempt to let them know how the Japanese company works
and get a sense of what our product needs are," a Fujitsu
official explains.
   Employees crowd into an Intellistor six-week course on
Japanese culture; many also are learning Japanese.
   Decision making also has taken on a Japanese flavor, says
Lewis Frauenfelder, Intellistor's founder and president.
"We're more consensus-oriented. More people who are involved
in a project get to decide on its direction."
   When Intellistor moved into its new research facility in
May, the opening of the building was bicultural -- a
Western-style ribbon-cutting followed by a Japanese-style
christening with rice wine.
   But American officials say outright interference has been
minimal. There are no Fujitsu supervisors at Intellistor.
Instead, two Japanese engineers act as liaisons between the
concerns. Though Fujitsu is its only customer, Intellistor
doesn't follow Japanese development standards; it generates
its own designs and blueprints.
   Venture capitalists sold Intellistor because "they felt
they couldn't continue financing the company and still make a
profit," says Mr. Frauenfelder. Since then, Fujitsu has given
financial support, including $11 million for the research
facility.
   Other U.S. concerns also say Japanese owners take pains to
minimize tensions. Before Toyota Motor Corp. completed its
$30 million acquisition of Bodine Aluminum Inc., a St. Louis
foundry, it spoke extensively to the state's governor and
other politicians to explain its long-term plans. Tokyo's
Clarion Co. Ltd. offered long-term contracts to managers at
McIntosh Laboratory Inc., Binghamton, N.Y., to persuade them
to stay. Clarion is buying the pricey sound-equipment maker
for $30 million.
   To minimize disruptions, the Japanese often try to appoint
only their U.S. officials to boards of companies they buy.
Nichirei Corp., a large Japanese seafood processor, even
appointed outsiders to the board of Sea Watch International,
a Maryland food company it acquired in 1988.
   Japanese purchasers "always ask what they can add to a
deal," says James Martens of Peers &amp; Co., a New York
investment bank specializing in Japanese acquisitions of U.S.
firms. "Most Japanese acquisitions have been followed by an
infusion of capital or technology or both."
   Indeed, many entrepreneurs say freedom from scouring the
U.S. markets for capital was among the biggest benefits they
gained by selling to the Japanese. Says Thomas Bologna,
president of Gen-Probe Inc., a San Diego biotechnology firm
purchased last year by Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. of Tokyo:
"We can now concentrate on the task of building companies and
selling products."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   David Sarnoff Center,
   Two Electronics Firms
   Win Defense Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW TXN
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   PRINCETON, N.J. -- The David Sarnoff Research Center said
it and two major electronics companies were awarded a $7.7
million contract from the Defense Department to develop a
high-resolution video workstation.
   The new workstation, which would combine capabilities for
handling text, video and graphics in a high-powered computer,
will be developed by the Sarnoff Center along with Sun
Microsystems Inc., Mountain View, Calif., and Texas
Instruments Inc., Dallas. The Sarnoff Center is a unit of SRI
International, a contract-based research and consulting firm
based in Menlo Park, Calif.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The military would likely use such a computer as a
building block for "combat information systems," a Sarnoff
spokesman said. He said the basic technology would also have
numerous commercial uses, including video teleconferencing
and medical imaging.
   Separately, the Sarnoff Center said it was awarded a $3
million contract for a supercomputer dedicated to processing
video information.
   Both awards, administered through the Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency, were originally announced last
October, but no dollar amounts were specified at that time.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Justin Industries Inc.
   Agrees to Takeover
   Of Tony Lama Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   JSTN TLAM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Justin Industries Inc. said it and Tony Lama
Co., both makers of Western footwear, signed a definitive
agreement for Justin to acquire Tony Lama for about $18
million, or $9 a share, plus the assumption of about $34
million of debt.
   But an investor group holding about 12% of Justin and
eager to acquire the rest sharply criticized the merger,
calling it "a completely defensive maneuver, a blatant
attempt to make {Justin} undesireable." The two leaders of
the investor group are Perry Sutherland, vice president of
Kansas City, Mo.-based Sutherland Lumber Southwest Co., and
Barry S. Rosenstein of New York, a former associate of
corporate buy-out specialist Asher Edelman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   John Justin, chairman and chief executive officer of
Justin, denied the assertion by the group, saying the
proposed acquisition had "no connection whatsoever" to the
investor group's attempts to acquire Justin. He said, "we've
talked with Tony Lama off and on for several years," long
before the investor group acquired its stake.
   Justin, which also makes building materials and industrial
equipment, posted 1989 footwear sales of $142 million. El
Paso-based Tony Lama, which makes Western boots and leather
accessories exclusively, had 1989 sales of $75.6 million.
   Yet Tony Lama isn't as financially-fit as its boots are
famous. For 1989 the company posted a loss of $1.8 million,
or 95 cents a share, and for the first half of this year it
had a loss of $901,000, or 47 cents a share. As for its
stock, after a planned $14-a-share acquisition by a Houston
leveraged-buy-out company collapsed in March, the price fell
to below $5 a share.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Tony Lama
stock surged $3.50 to $8. Justin stock fell 75 cents to
$14.25 in national over-the-counter trading.
   The investment group said it feared that Tony Lama's
losses, combined with its $34 million in debt, overshadowed
the synergy for Justin of acquiring another bootmaker. "On
the surface, it looks like Justin is offering a very high
price for a company that lost {millions} on a pretax basis
over the last 12 months," said Mr. Sutherland.
   Last March, Justin's board rejected an $18.50 a share, or
$140.5 million, offer from the investment group. Last month,
in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
investors said that they were still trying to acquire Justin.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consumer Savings Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>

   Super-NOW Accounts-a           4.98%
   Six-month Certificates-a       7.51%
   One-year Certificates-a        7.61%
   Thirty-month Accounts-a        7.68%
   Five-Year Certificates-a       7.79%
   U.S. Savings Bonds-b           7.01%
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   a-Average rate paid yesterday by 100 large banks and
thrifts in the 10 largest metropolitan areas as compiled by
Bank Rate Monitor.
   b-Current annual yield. Guaranteed minimum 6%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consolidated Natural Gas Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   CNG
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Consolidated Natural Gas Co. said its CNG
Transmission Corp. unit reached a consent agreement with the
state to locate and clean up contamination from its
Pennsylvania gas pipeline.
   A company spokesman estimated CNG Transmission would pay
$900,000 for the initial search for contamination.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The utility also agreed to pay the Pennsylvania Department
of Environmental Resources as much as $500,000 annually in
monitoring costs.
   "There's some suspicions there might be problems," he
said. "We've agreed to conduct a study of our facilities, and
if we find any problems, we'll clean it up."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Old Kent Financial
   Plans to Continue
   Acquisition Strategy
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   OKEN
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Old Kent Financial Corp. will "continue to
aggressively seek acquisitions," particularly to increase its
presence in the Chicago market, said chairman John C. Canepa.
   Canepa, speaking after addressing a group of Detroit
analysts, said the bank holding company has been considering
the acquisition of savings and loan associations because
"today's pressure on bank stocks and expectations of sellers
. . . has slowed acquisitions" of commercial banks. Savings
and loans -- either solvent or bought from federal regulators
-- offer "an avenue for low-cost expansion."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   B.P. Sherwood III, the Grand Rapids, Mich., company's vice
chairman and treasurer, said Old Kent will not seek to buy
thrifts to enter new markets. He said the company will
instead use its acquisitions to "enhance existing market
presence."
   Sherwood said Old Kent expects its loan activity to
moderate in the final two quarters of the year. He said the
company has seen its commercial and consumer lending taper
off recently, while residential lending has remained steady.
   The Old Kent officials said the company recently tightened
its real-estate lending policies and re-emphasized Old Kent's
policy of only lending in markets in which it has "a physical
presence."
   Canepa said Old Kent will seek to lower its expenses by
taking such steps as consolidating some of its subsidiary
banks and centralizing mortgage operations throughout the
company.
   Old Kent holds 21 banks with 195 offices in Michigan and
Illinois. In the second quarter ended June 30, the company
reported net income of $22.3 million, or 83 cents a primary
share, compared with $21.2 million, or 81 cents a primary
share, a year earlier. Old Kent had $8.1 billion in assets on
June 30 compared with $8.2 billion a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ATI Medical Expects
   To Post $250,000 Loss
   For Fiscal 4th Period
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ATI
</CO>
<LP>
   LAS VEGAS, Nev. -- ATI Medical Inc. said it expects to
report a fourth-quarter net loss of about $250,000, primarily
due to nonrecurring costs associated with the start-up of its
Americare subsidiary.
   For the fiscal year ended July 31, the company said it
will post net income of about $2.4 million, or 45 cents a
share, on record revenue of about $50 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The renter of medical equipment said the earnings, which
will be recorded officially in about six weeks, will be lower
than originally anticipated by the company. The expenses
connected to the Americare unit reduced earnings by about
$500,000, or six cents a share, it said.
   In the year-earlier fourth quarter, ATI posted earnings of
$663,673, or 13 cents a share, on revenue of $10.2 million.
For all of fiscal 1989, the company reported earnings of $2.2
million, or 41 cents a share, on revenue of $39.1 million.
   ATI said that while a lower hospital census in the last
three months of the fiscal year also affected operating
results, the company's total volume in July was at record
levels and ATI resumed profitability during that month. The
company said its cash position remains strong.
   "Given the way our stock has moved, we wanted to reassure
people that it was only one {troubled} quarter . . . that it
isn't a disaster," Paul E. Stevenson, ATI's president and
chief executive officer, said in an interview. In American
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, ATI closed at
$5.875 a share, up 50 cents.
   Despite the temporary disruption in earnings growth, Mr.
Stevenson added, ATI should continue to show profit
improvement in fiscal 1991, when revenue should reach at
least $60 million, a 20% jump from 1990.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Forest Oil Finds Natural Gas
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FOIL WOL
</CO>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Forest Oil Corp. said it discovered natural gas
offshore Louisiana on West Delta Block 20.
   The well flowed at a rate of 7.4 million cubic feet of gas
per day through a 17/64 inch choke at a depth of 16,849 feet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Forest Oil, with a 50% interest, drilled the well, but
Wainoco Oil &amp; Gas Co., with a 33.33% interest will operate
the well. Newfield Exploration Co. holds a 16.67% interest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Plunge 43.81 Points
   On Jump in Crude Oil Futures
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices dove in late trading on a spike
in crude oil futures, while a report that Iraq claimed its
airspace had been invaded added to the selling.
   The report from the Middle East, taken from Iraq's
official news agency, was unconfirmed by Western sources. But
the news hit a market already jittery from the rise in crude
oil futures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at its low for the
day at 2560.15, down 43.81.
   The broader market also fell. Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock
Index slid 5.31 to 316.55, the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Index lost 2.72 to 174.22 and the Dow Jones Equity
Market Index tumbled 4.92 to 293.10.
   Declining issues swamped advancers, 1,202 to 360, with 426
stocks unchanged. New York Stock Exchange volume eased to
175,550,000 shares from Tuesday's 194,630,000 shares.
   Stock prices surged at the opening, pushing the Dow Jones
average up about 17 points within the first half hour of
trading. But the gains quickly evaporated as crude oil
futures rose through the morning.
   The average drifted lower through the afternoon, finally
ending in a flurry of selling as October crude oil futures
rose to their highest levels since 1985, closing at $31.22 a
barrel, up $2.51. Traders say computer-driven sell programs
contributed to the final sharp drop at the end of the day.
   "The market is adjusting to a new world," says Edward J.
Shopkorn, director of equity services at Mabon Nugent. He
says the market had adjusted to oil prices in the mid-$20
range, but now is dropping again as oil prices rise above $30
a barrel.
   Mr. Shopkorn noted that a surge in the price of the
various Nikkei 225-Stock Index put warrants trading on the
American Stock Exchange yesterday means traders are expecting
the selling to carry over to the Japanese market.
   The put warrants rise in price as the Tokyo Stock Exchange
bellwether index falls, and a surge in the warrants often
anticipates selling in Japanese stocks overnight.
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index of 225 issues fell 1086.93 points to
25210.91 yesterday. A further drop in overseas stock markets
could add pressure to stocks in the U.S., traders say.
   Dale Tills, head of institutional trading at Charles
Schwab, says traders are getting nervous as the industrial
average approaches a key support level at around the 2550
level. "As we get closer and closer to this support, it gets
very dangerous," he says.
   He adds that if the Dow Jones industrial average falls
below the support level, it will have broken an upward trend
that has been in place for about six years.
   "If we do break that support, it could mean 2,200 on the
Dow {industrials}," Mr. Tills says. "That's got a lot of
people nervous."
   But Harold MacKinney Jr., head of the investment policy
committee at Fleet National Bank, remains hopeful that a
resolution to the Mideast crisis will save the market from
further losses.
   He says the market's bottom is more likely to be 2500. And
the Dow Jones industrials could jump 100 points in a day on
any positive news, he says.
   "I think if we resolve the {Mideast} problem effectively,
this thing is off and running and next year we could see the
market above 3000," Mr. MacKinney says.
   Some oilfield equipment stocks were lower, after having
risen sharply following Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. Dresser
Industries lost 3 1/4 to 46 1/2, Halliburton was off 1 3/4 to
53 1/2, and Schlumberger was down 1 3/8 to 63 1/4.
   Caesars World fell 1 7/8 to 11 7/8, adding to its 7/8
point loss on Tuesday. The casino operator reported fiscal
fourth quarter profit fell to 31 cents a share, less than
half of what it earned in the year-ago quarter.
   But not all stocks fell.
   MGM/UA Communications added 3/8 to 13 1/4. The company
said it received checks totalling $50 million from Pathe
Communications as the latest of a series of payments toward
Pathe's $1.3 billion acquisition of MGM/UA. The acquisition
pact calls for MGM/UA shareholders to receive a total of
$21.50 a share, including a $4-a-share payment that was
distributed on July 20. Payment of the remaining $17.50 a
share is set to occur before Oct. 23.
   National Intergroup gained 1 1/2 to 16 1/8. The company
said it is seeking buyers for itself and its Foxmeyer drug
distribution unit as part of an accord reached with dissident
shareholder Centaur Partners.
   Wilcox &amp; Gibbs added 3/8 to 6 7/8. The company said it
would buy back up to one million of its 13.8 million common
shares outstanding.
   Computer Associates added 1/4 to 7 1/8. On Monday, the
company said it would buy back up to 15 million of its 187
million shares outstanding.
   Comprehensive Care finished unchanged at 2 1/8. A
dissident shareholder group has apparently succeeded in
removing the companies current directors.
   USAir Group was off 1 3/4 to 15 1/8. The company said it
will fire about 1,500 probationary employees in the next few
days as part of the company's program to constrain expansion
and to reduce costs. The company also said it would delay a
planned fare increase.
   Dreyfus fell 2 1/8 to 27 1/4 in heavy trading. The company
said it will continue to waive its management fee for the
world-wide dollar money market fund until June 30, 1991.
Dreyfus has waived the fee since the fund was created. The
waiver was set to expire on Sept. 30. The normal fee on a
money market fund is about 50 basis points, or 0.5%, of the
fund's assets. Dreyfus's world-wide dollar money market fund
currently has about $8.6 billion invested.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index lost 2.95
to 324.39. Volume totaled 16,570,000 shares.
   On the American exchange, CSS Industries edged up 1/4
point to 16 1/2 after the company said it would repurchase up
to 100,000 of its 5.2 million common shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Caesars World Posts
   55% Earnings Decline
   For Fourth Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
08/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CAW
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Caesars World Inc. reported that earnings
for its fourth quarter ended July 31 fell 55% to $7.4
million, or 31 cents a share, from $16.4 million, or 66 cents
a share, a year earlier.
   Most of the decline came from Caesar's Nevada hotel/casino
operations, particularly from low table-game win percentages
at Caesars Tahoe. In Las Vegas, a decrease in wagering
activity at Caesars Palace was partially offset by a higher
win percentage by the company over the same period a year
ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue fell 5.1% to $223.7 million from $235.7 million.
   Although Caesars' results were about what analysts
expected, the company's stock fell $1.875 a share to $11.875
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.
   The drop may reflect "growing nervousness over what the
problems in the Middle East and higher oil prices could do to
the travel business," said Lee Isgur, an analyst at
PaineWebber Inc. in New York.
   But Caesars has had other problems. Competition from new
casinos in both Las Vegas and Atlantic City, N.J., has hurt
its business for the past few quarters. Caesars has also
blamed higher provisions for bad debts, as well as increased
casino payroll and operating costs related to completing a
two-year renovation and expansion program.
   For the full year, net declined 45% to $36.8 million, or
$1.52 a share, compared with $66.9 million, or $2.72 a share,
a year earlier. Revenue fell 3.5% to $870.2 million from $902
million.
   Caesars said it bought back about 1.2 million of its
common shares during fiscal 1990, reducing the number of
shares currently outstanding to about 24 million. During the
year, Caesars said it also bought back $19.8 million of its
13.5% notes due in 1997.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900823-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900823-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   How Jordan's King Was Played for a Fool
   ----
   By Karen Elliott House
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   As the Gulf crisis enters its second week, it's far from
clear whether Saddam Hussein will wind up winner or loser.
What is clearer is that there will be other regional losers
-- beyond the exiled emir of Kuwait.
   The likeliest loser of all is Jordan's King Hussein, the
region's longest reigning ruler. Like a cat with nine lives,
the cautious, clever, sometimes opportunistic and always
gracious monarch, has somehow managed for nearly four decades
to slip sundry snares: assassination attempts, PLO-inspired
civil rebellion, anti-royalist coups across the Mideast,
chaos and carnage in neighboring Lebanon, and, of course,
Arab-Israeli conflicts. But this time the cat seems likely to
be belled.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It's among the sadder ironies of the current situation
that the basically moderate and pro-Western Jordanian monarch
who prides himself on close relations with all but one (Jimmy
Carter) of the last eight U.S. presidents has wound up as the
puppet of Iraq's amoral, anti-Western and anti-royalist
Saddam Hussein. Jordan's king, no fool, has been played for
one by a wily neighbor with whom he shares neither values nor
interests.
   How this came about is a tangled tale. Nearly a decade ago
King Hussein edged into alliance with Iraq in its war with
Iran both to support a fraternal Arab state and to contain
the Islamic fundamentalism that Iran's Shiite ayatollahs were
unleashing. As that war largely shut down Persian Gulf
shipping, it was Jordan's port of Aqaba that became Iraq's
military and commercial lifeline. King Hussein also gave
Saddam another gift -- respectability. The degree to which
Western and Arab powers came to view Iraq as the lesser evil
to Iran was in no small part due to the king's patronage of
his uncivilized neighbor. The scene was much like a little
organ grinder leading around a giant gorilla on a leash. The
rest of the Arab world, especially the Saudis and Kuwaitis,
poured billions into the gorilla's tin cup.
   In recent months, as King Hussein worried more than usual
about what he saw as the twin threats of Soviet Jewish
immigration into the Israeli-occupied West Bank and
Palestinian radicalism within his own borders, the organ
grinder became more and more the instrument of the gorilla.
Saddam Hussein played on the king's fears of Israeli
expansionism and promised him protection. Furthermore, King
Hussein, who prides himself on loyalty, felt a genuine
friendship for Saddam Hussein.
   Jordan has benefited from the friendship with Iraq.
Baghdad supplies oil, jobs for Jordanians and the major
market for Jordanian products. Commerce through the port of
Aqaba is vital to Jordan's sick economy, certain to get
sicker with the loss of remittances from Jordanians working
in Iraq and Kuwait. As the West imposes an economic blockade
of Iraq, Jordan will be the first to feel its pain. If the
king seeks to keep Aqaba open, he'll incur more Western
wrath. If he closes Aqaba to Iraqi supplies, he will fuel
radicalism in Jordan and hasten his demise.
   In an interview six weeks ago, the king was visibly
traumatized by what he saw as the likelihood of an
Israeli-instigated Mideast war. Israel, he said, sought a
pretext to topple his kingdom and turn it into a homeland for
Palestinians pushed from Israel to make room for Soviet Jews.
He said the risks of war were greater than at any time in his
37-year rule.
   The king's rule began when he was a teen-ager and his
grandfather, King Abdullah was stabbed in front of him during
Friday prayers in Jersualem. King Abdullah had been installed
in Transjordan by the British, who created the country in
1921 as a consolation prize for him after they removed him
from the Hejaz, now part of Saudi Arabia, in favor of Ibn
Saud, founder of the Saudi royal family. The British took the
young King Hussein to England to train him in soldiering and
continued to advise him back in Jordan.
   The interview took place in the king's sitting room, as
ever decorated with photographs of European royal friends.
This time he had a new photo -- that of Saddam Hussein. As
the king spoke, there was Saddam staring over his shoulder,
almost visibly abetting his nightmares.
   A few days later, in an interview in Baghdad, Saddam
Hussein exuded confidence. He wasn't focused on visions of an
Israeli attack but rather on posturing as leader of the Arab
world. There were no photos of friends in his marble audience
chamber. Indeed, less than 24 hours before the invasion,
Saddam Hussein lied so persuasively to King Hussein about his
plans that the Jordanian monarch phoned his friend George
Bush to assure him, against satellite and other evidence,
that the Iraqis hadn't any intention of invading Kuwait.
   The two Husseins couldn't be more different in personal
style. King Hussein is gracious, charming, and ever attentive
to others. At an outdoor birthday party for one of his young
sons a few years back, he disappeared into his palace and
returned with sweaters and shawls for all the mothers who had
begun to shiver in the evening coolness. Meetings are usually
in his small family sitting room. And at any meeting he never
fails to ask first in his flawless English about one's health
and offer juice and tea before getting down to business. If a
visitor needs a ride, the king will sometimes take the wheel
of his Mercedes and personally chauffeur. He frequently takes
his young sons by his American wife with him and smiles
patiently when they snuff out his cigarettes, chiding him
about his bad habit.
   By contrast, Saddam Hussein makes no attempt to be
charming. To greet visitors, he stands erect and stiffly
offers his hand. Pleasantries are nonexistent. While he has
begun to wear expensive Western suits, he remains as insular
as the king is sophisticated and well-traveled. The Iraqi
leader's only trip to the West was more than a decade ago.
   Iraq's invasion of Kuwait has forced Arab leaders to
choose sides. Over the weekend, as Egypt's Hosni Mubarak,
Syria's Hafez al Assad, and other lesser leaders finally
lined up with Saudi Arabia, there was King Hussein, holding
the bag for Saddam Hussein. Not only has the king missed an
opportunity to protect Saudi Arabia, earning gratitude and
desperately needed largesse, he also has ended up opposing
the interests of the U.S., whose support and protection he
spent decades cultivating. The king is now in no man's land,
used and abused by Saddam and isolated from his natural
allies. The king can no longer count on support from a U.S.
president he personally mislead and since has failed to
support. Nor can he count on Israel, in whose eyes, Jordan
may have outlived its usefulness.
   The biggest danger to King Hussein, however, is his
"friend" Saddam Hussein, who aims to arouse masses throughout
the Mideast to a jihad, or holy war, against American
imperialists and Zionists. His response to Mideast leaders
who oppose him will be to forment riot and rebellion against
those leaders.
   Saddam's offer this weekend to withdraw from Kuwait if
Israel vacates territories taken from Jordan, Syria and Egypt
and if Syria withdraws from Lebanon, has greatly enhanced his
appeal across the Arab world. This is only the beginning of
the propaganda battle. Kerbela and Najaf, two of Shia Islam's
holiest sites are in southern Iraq, where Saddam could easily
bomb them and blame it on Israel or America. Such an act
would almost certainly guarantee a Mideast firestorm against
every Westerner in the region.
   King Hussein is uniquely vulnerable. He is a Hashemite
ruler of a state where 60% of the population is Palestinian.
Moreover, his pro-Western history makes him suspect to
Islamic fundamentalists, who already are flooding Jordanian
mosques to chant "Down With America."
   The confrontation between America and Saddam Hussein will
certainly get much nastier. As it does, the risks to the king
will rise accordingly. Even if Saddam does not seek to
dethrone the king, rising radicalism at home seems likely to
accomplish that. At the same time, rising radicalism in
Jordan will be seen as a threat by the Israelis, who then may
opt for toppling the king and taking Jordan before he
crumbles of his own accord.
   The whirlwind Saddam Hussein is sowing could well claim
other victims. Egypt's President Hosni Mubarak, America's
staunchest ally in the region, faces his own fundamentalists
and skeptics about his peace with Israel. He has now added
the burden of helping to defend Saudi Arabia's unpopular
monarchy with Western "imperialists." The Saudis and
Americans, not to mention the Israelis, will be heavy burdens
for Mr. Mubarak as Saddam Hussein unleashes the high winds of
nationalism and fundamentalism. For its part, the Saudi royal
family can count on no true friend anywhere in the region and
on little popularity among its own populace.
   About the only thing that can be predicted with some
confidence is that another period of Mideast instability has
begun. The grim possiblities are almost endless, particularly
when one tosses Israeli fears and Iranian fanaticism into the
cauldron of potential chaos. If Saddam goes down, he'll take
as many others with him as possible. It is a safe bet that
neither Mideast borders nor leaders will look the same a year
from now and that the chaos will claim other victims before
it claims Saddam Hussein.
   ---
   Ms. House is vice president, international, of Dow Jones &amp;
Co., publisher of The Wall Street Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
