<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Bristol-Myers Reviews Its Nuprin Account
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   GREY BMY WPPGY IPG FREST LATAM WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. has quietly put its $30 million
Nuprin pain reliever ad account up for review.
   A Bristol-Myers spokesman confirmed late yesterday that
"we are in the process of reviewing Nuprin advertising, and
we are speaking to several agencies." He said Grey
Advertising, which currently handles the ad account for the
"little, yellow" pain pills, "will have the opportunity to
compete" for the business. He declined to identify the other
agencies involved, but industry executives said that among
them are WPP Group's Ogilvy &amp; Mather and J. Walter Thompson
units, neither of which handles Bristol-Myers brands in the
U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While big in itself, the Nuprin account could prove even
more significant than its billings would suggest: The account
could open the door for the agency that wins it to pick up
other Bristol-Myers business, industry executives said. "I
don't think they're going to select an agency without knowing
it can take on more business," said one executive involved in
the pitch.
   Bristol-Myers was the 21st-largest U.S. advertiser last
year, spending about $430 million, according to Advertising
Age, a trade publication. Among its brands are Excedrin,
Bufferin, Clairol and Drano.
   The huge pharmaceutical company decided to put the account
up for review about a month ago, prompted largely by Nuprin's
disappointing sales. Nuprin is ibuprofen, the same drug that
also goes by the brand name Advil from American Home
Products. But despite Bristol-Myers's heavy promotion of the
brand -- and despite Grey's distinctive black-and-white
commercials with only the yellow pills in color -- Nuprin has
lagged far behind market leader Advil.
   "At this time, the brand isn't growing at a rate that is
satisfactory to us," the Bristol-Myers spokesman said. "We
want the strongest possible advertising support." He didn't
say when a decision would be made, but industry executives
believe it will be in the next few weeks.
   According to Hemant K. Shah, an analyst with HKS &amp; Co. in
Warren, N.J., Nuprin's share of the ibuprofen market has been
steadily sliding. At the end of 1984, the year that Nuprin
was introduced, it had a 30% share of a $55 million market.
By last year, the ibuprofen market had grown to $500 million,
but Nuprin's share had plummeted to 16%, a distant second to
Advil's almost 55% share. Mr. Shah estimated that while the
total market will grow to close to $600 million this year,
Nuprin's growth again won't match that rate, and its share
will slip below 15%.
   Bristol-Myers "did try to promote {Nuprin} very
agressively last year, but apparently it didn't work," Mr.
Shah said. Nuprin's ad budget also lagged behind that of
Advil, which spent $48 million last year, according to
Leading National Advertisers. Nuprin has been buffeted, too,
by the entry of Upjohn's Motrin IB, another ibuprofen
medication that once had been prescription-only.
   The review may also reflect some personnel changes at
Bristol-Myers. Grey had a close relationship with Ronald A.
Ahrens, who had been president of the Bristol-Myers Products
unit and then president of the parent company's North
American consumer products group. The review began after Mr.
Ahrens resigned in April.
   Winning the Nuprin account would be a huge boost for
Ogilvy, whose New York office just recently broke a two-year
losing streak when it picked up the $45 million Eastern
Airlines account. Ogilvy also is competing for a piece of the
Xerox account. Executives at both Ogilvy and Thompson
declined to comment.
   In addition to Nuprin, Grey also handles Bristol-Myers's
Ultress, Miss Clairol, Windex and Drano brands, among others.
Grey declined to comment.
   ---
   McCann Venture in Korea
                                                                                                       

   McCann-Erickson Worldwide said it set up a joint venture
with Creworld Advertising, an agency in Seoul. In what McCann
described as a first in Korea for a multinational firm,
McCann will hold a majority ownership of the new shop. The
shop will be renamed McCann-Erickson. Terms of the venture
weren't disclosed.
   Several other agencies, including Backer Spielvogel Bates,
already have joint ventures in Korea, but those shops hold
only minority ownership positions.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Barbados Board of Tourism, New York, awarded
its estimated $4 million account to Grey Entertainment &amp;
Media, a subsidiary of Grey Advertising, industry executives
said. The account had previously been handled by Van Brunt &amp;
Co., New York. A spokesman for the tourism board declined to
comment.
                                                                                                       

   HONG KONG: Ketchum Communications and Far East Advertising
Holding agreed to dissolve their joint venture in Far East
Ketchum Advertising, a Hong Kong ad agency. The joint venture
was set up in 1978. Ketchum said it decided to break up the
venture because of "differing business goals."
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Glenn E. Corlett was named chief financial
officer at Ayer, New York. He had been a consultant at Price
Waterhouse.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A Now-Extinct Tribe Somewhere
   Once Traded Its Spears for Shields
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   The city of Concord, N.H., has sold a cache of guns
confiscated from criminals. And the city knows just what to
do with the $2,700 it received from the gun auction.
   Buy some bulletproof vests for its police officers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wait a minute] Isn't that tantamount to a hospital selling
cigarettes in order to purchase respirators?
   "Yes," concedes Concord Mayor James MacKay. "But to tell
you the truth, it was so late at night when we discussed
this, no one on the {city} council saw the paradox in what we
were doing."
   Paradox or not, the Concord Police Department is
determined to buy the protective gear. "We need the vests,
about 15 of them, actually," says Leo DeGreenia, director of
administration for the Concord Police Department. Concord, a
bucolic city of 36,000, has in the past ignored requests for
vests by its law-enforcement agency. The department has a few
of them, set aside mostly for its SWAT team, but it could do
with a few more.
   For example, when police responded recently to reports of
a disturbed individual spraying bullets at the windows of an
abandoned building, most of the officers didn't wear
protective gear.
   "It's for a good cause, and protecting police officers'
lives is deemed a good cause," says Elizabeth Hager, one of
the town's councilors who doesn't object to the purchase of
vests.
   She, like nearly half the 15-member council, however, did
object to the sale of the guns. "It was more symbolic than
anything," reflects Michael Gfroerer, a fellow councilor.
"Some of us didn't think the city should be getting into the
gun-trafficking business."
   About 40 shotguns, pistols and rifles were sold last week
to a Rhode Island gun dealer, who was the highest of 18
bidders. "Just to say we sold the guns to a dealer doesn't
make this right," argues Ms. Hager. "We know where criminals
get their guns."
   The measure won council approval by one vote. And Mayor
MacKay was among those who voted in favor.
   "Considering the fact that you can go down into
Massachusetts and probably buy an atomic bomb if you want, I
thought discussion on this matter was an exercise in futility
and hypocrisy," reasons Mr. MacKay, a psychologist. "My basic
feeling is firearms are so readily available anyway, if we
can protect the lives of our police officers, let's do it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Panel Approves Bill to Repeal
   Some Antitrust Exemptions for Insurers
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A House Judiciary subcommittee approved
legislation that would repeal crucial aspects of the
insurance industry's 45-year-old exemption from federal
antitrust law.
   The Democratic-supported bill, approved yesterday by a 9-6
party-line vote, would eliminate insurers' exemptions for
price-fixing, attempting to monopolize markets, allocating
territories among rival firms, and forcing consumers to
purchase packages of unrelated types of policies. These
practices are generally viewed by lawyers and economists as
among the most egregious antitrust violations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although it is only an early step in the legislative
process, the subcommittee action was significant. The
legislation would amend the McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945,
which has provided the $500 billion insurance industry with
broad protection from federal antitrust enforcement. Only
once before, in 1988, has such a modification of
McCarran-Ferguson received subcommittee approval, and that
bill died without moving further.
   Under the current legislation, sponsored by Judiciary
Committee Chairman Jack Brooks of Texas, insurers would be
allowed to continue certain types of information-sharing on
claims and other economic trends that would be deemed illegal
in other industries. Moreover, insurers would remain
insulated from federal enforcement in states where state
officials actively regulate the industry.
   The bill would "prohibit only the most pernicious offenses
-- like price-fixing -- unless the states take real
responsibility for regulating the industry," Rep. Brooks
said. The prohibitions would take effect after a five-year
"transition period."
   The full House Judiciary Committee, which Mr. Brooks also
chairs, is expected to consider his bill this summer. If it
receives the committee's approval, as expected, a tough floor
fight could follow this fall. The Senate is moving more
slowly on a different bill designed to repeal aspects of
McCarran-Ferguson.
   Some lawmakers have tried for years to repeal the
McCarran-Ferguson exemptions, arguing that they limit
competition and drive up premium prices. But the insurance
industry, which claims the exemptions permit "stability" and
thus reduce rates, has skillfully orchestrated sufficient
opposition to block such efforts.
   While insurers generally continue to oppose modification
of McCarran-Ferguson, some major firms have lately conceded
that they would survive with less special protection.
   Wilson Taylor, chairman of Cigna Corp., for example, said
in a speech to an insurance trade group that it is time to
"shake off the status quo and take some bold steps toward
change and compromise" on McCarran-Ferguson, among other
issues.
   John P. Mascotte, chairman of Continental Corp., said,
"I'm not calling for repeal {of the antitrust exemptions},
but it is time to carefully re-examine McCarran-Ferguson and
see what the industry needs in the way of regulation and then
ask if McCarran is the most effective way of doing that."
   Before the House subcommittee approved the Brooks bill
yesterday, it voted 14-1 against a proposal by Rep. Tom
Campbell (R., Calif.) to repeal McCarran-Ferguson entirely.
Mr. Campbell, a former Stanford University law professor and
something of a maverick on antitrust issues, ultimately voted
against the Brooks bill.
   In recent years, the Federal Trade Commission, which
shares antitrust authority with the Justice Department, has
recommended total repeal of McCarran-Ferguson. James Rill,
the Justice Department's antitrust chief, is known to favor
repeal of at least some of the McCarran-Ferguson protections,
but the Bush administration hasn't taken a public position on
the politically charged issue.
   ---
   Beatrice E. Garcia in Philadelphia contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Central Illinois Public Service Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CIP
</CO>
<LP>
   CENTRAL ILLINOIS PUBLIC SERVICE Co. (Springfield, Ill.) --
Lowell A. Dodd, formerly vice president for division
operations at this electric and natural gas utility concern,
was named senior vice president for operations. Mr. Dodd, 51
years old, succeeds Robert G. Lane, 63, who is retiring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Deadlock on Lithuania Is Broken at Talks;
   Supreme Soviet Compromises on Economy
   ---
   Moscow Agrees to a Partial
   Lifting of Its Blockade
   In a Sign Crisis Is Easing
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- The Soviet Union broke the deadlock over
Lithuania yesterday by agreeing to ease its economic embargo
and resume shipping 15% of Lithuania's natural gas needs.
   "We are beginning to move toward a solution," Soviet
Premier Nikolai Ryzhkov told reporters during a series of
discussions between Lithuanian Prime Minister Kazimiera
Prunskiene and Kremlin officials. The Reuters news agency
quoted him as saying, "People are starting to understand that
by choosing that path they went into a dead end." He added in
reference to Lithuania's March 11 declaration of full,
immediate independence, "Now, it appears to me they
understand."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In response to that declaration, President Mikhail
Gorbachev imposed sweeping economic sanctions and said he
wouldn't meet with Lithuanian leaders until they suspended or
rescinded their declaration of secession.
   However, he changed his stance. Mr. Gorbachev met with the
presidents of the three Baltic republics Tuesday and told
them that negotiations on a changed status can begin if the
republics simply freeze their independence declarations for
the duration of the talks. Estonia and Latvia have been
pursuing independence more cautiously than Lithuania.
   Mr. Gorbachev's backing away from confrontation over
regional independence was an attempt to retain the political
initiative in the face of bold moves by his rival Boris
Yeltsin.
   Mr. Gorbachev proposed to leaders of the nation's 15
republics that the Soviet Union be reconstructed as a kind of
loose federation with Moscow retaining undisputed control
only in key areas of national concern, such as defense and
foreign affairs.
   A committee to design the federation could be formed
within a week, according to Mr. Gorbachev's press secretary
Arkady Maslennikov.
   "It's the first time I've heard that formula, not as
bigger and smaller, but as equal partners," said Latvian
President Anatolijs Gorbunovs.
   Mr. Gorbachev's advisers and supporters say these moves
are signs of his sincere desire to resolve the thorny issue
of republics' desires for independence. But they also
indicate his recognition that events are moving with or
without his participation.
   Mr. Yeltsin has intensified that pressure. Elected
president of the Parliament of the Soviet Union's largest
republic, Russia, two weeks ago, Mr. Yeltsin has already
started bilateral talks with the leaders of other republics.
His own Parliament Tuesday overwhelmingly passed a
declaration of sovereignty, saying Russia's laws would be
supreme in its territory.
   "There is an absolutely new strong political force in the
Soviet Union, and that is a democratic Russia," said Igor
Gryazin, a Soviet Parliament member from Estonia. "Gorbachev
must decide whether to solve {problems} by himself or they
will be solved without his assistance through mutual
negotiations between Lithuania and Russia, Latvia and Russia,
and Estonia and Russia."
   At the same time, Mr. Yeltsin has been sounding more
moderate since his election. He told the Russian Parliament
yesterday that members must not be wary of entering a new
type of confederation and that he and Mr. Gorbachev will work
together on a friendly basis. "I think Mikhail Sergeyevich
took the first serious step and the next will be a discussion
of questions on all topics," Mr. Yeltsin said.
   The drive to improve economic conditions is the strongest
engine behind these initial attempts at horizontal ties. The
central government, which itself is attempting to reform the
nation's economy as a further stage in perestroika, supports
such contacts in theory as a logical part of the creation of
a market economy.
   In Washington, the White House welcomed the partial
lifting of the embargo against Lithuania. The Bush
administration sees the apparent easing of the Lithuanian
crisis as a vindication of its policy on the Baltic states,
which has avoided any sanctions against Moscow while quietly
pressing both sides for a dialogue. Members of Congress have
indicated they will not approve the trade pact signed by
Presidents Bush and Gorbachev during the Washington summit
until the embargo against Lithuania is lifted.
   According to a Lithuanian spokeswoman there were no
promsies about further relaxation of the embargo, but the
Soviet news agency Tass quoted Mrs. Prunskiene as saying
after meeting with Mr. Ryzhkov that, "We have no doubts the
economic blockade will be lifted."
   Mr. Ryzhkov said negotiations could lead to full
independent statehood for Lithuania, such as that enjoyed by
Finland, Mrs. Prunskiene was quoted as saying by a Lithuanian
spokeswoman contacted by the Associated Press. Mr. Ryzhkov
suggested that negotiations on independence would take two to
three years, the spokeswoman said.
   (See related story: "Parliament and Ryzhkov Strike
Face-Saving Deal on Transition to Market" -- WSJ June 14,
1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wiser Oil Opens Texas Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WISE
</CO>
<LP>
   SISTERSVILLE, W.Va. -- Wiser Oil Co. said it began
operating a natural gas liquids plant in Concho County,
Texas, to process gas from the company's Aqaritta oilfield.
   The plant is removing 7,500 gallons a day of natural gas
liquids from 1.2 million cubic feet a day of natural gas,
Wiser said. The gas is being reinjected into the field to
maintain pressure and enhance oil recovery.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wiser said that oil production from the field is 700
barrels a day, and that additional drilling will be required
to delineate the limits of the field. Wiser has a 62.5%
working interest and a 50% net revenue interest in the field.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford Motor Co. Unit Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   F GM GMH
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Ford Aerospace Corp., a unit of Ford Motor
Co., was given a $14.2 million Air Force contract for TR-1
ground station support.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hughes Aircraft Co., a unit of General Motors Corp., won a
$14.2 million Army contract for TOW anti-tank missile
research.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Bases Loaded
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Your beer is warm, your hot dog's cold,
   A post your view impairs.
   Cheer up] Where else could you be close
   To eighteen millionaires?
   -- Dick Emmons.
   ---
   Blank Verse
                                                                                                       

   Invisible ink has many uses,
   There's certainly little doubt of it;
   But its major drawback is
   How to know when you run out of it.
   -- George O. Ludcke.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   U.K. Restricts the Use of ICI Heart Drug;
   Request for U.S. Approval Is Withdrawn
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP ICI
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- British regulators restricted the use of Corwin,
a once-promising heart drug, as its manufacturer Imperial
Chemical Industries PLC withdrew a request for U.S. marketing
clearance.
   The actions underscore growing concern about the drug's
ill effects, arising largely from doctors misprescribing it
for serious heart failure rather than for milder forms of
heart failure. Some analysts believe ICI, a major U.K.
chemical and pharmaceutical maker, ultimately may withdraw
Corwin from the four countries where it's now sold. That
would mark a significant setback for ICI, because bullish
analysts had viewed the product as a blockbuster with
potential world-wide sales of $700 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Britain's Committee on Safety of Medicines decided that
only hospital specialists should begin prescribing Corwin,
and solely for mild heart-failure patients after they've
undergone diagnostic exercise tests. In a letter sent to
doctors last month and released yesterday, the government
advisory panel described 191 reports of adverse reactions
from the medicine, generically known as xamoterol, since its
introduction nearly two years ago.
   The ill effects include worsened heart failure, a chronic
condition involving a decline in the heart's pumping power.
Other effects are dizziness and aggravation of diseases such
as emphysema and asthma. "We have had no reports of any
deaths at all" linked to Corwin, said a U.K. Department of
Health official.
   ICI has urged similar restrictions in its own letter to
physicians, but officials downplayed the significance of the
U.K. action and ICI's U.S. decision. "We still think there
are a great number of patients" who can be treated with
Corwin for mild heart failure, because 60% of heart-failure
patients "fall into the mild category," said Lynn Grant, a
spokeswoman.
   She emphasized that ICI yanked its U.S. marketing
application because it wants to collect more clinical data in
the U.S. ICI's decision to withdraw its request for U.S.
clearance "really wasn't related to these queries that have
come up" in Britain, she said, adding that ICI will proceed
with plans to launch the drug in Iceland and France, where it
has won initial approval, and pursue clearance in numerous
Asian and Latin American countries.
   Some physicians and analysts see much dimmer prospects for
Corwin. Andrew Herxheimer, a clinical pharmacologist here,
said, "The place for the drug in any country is in doubt." He
added: "There would be no loss to patients if this drug
didn't exist."
   Andrew Porter, a drug analyst at Nikko Securities Co.
here, noted that analysts' projected demand for Corwin has
steadily shrunk since reports of its ill effects began to
surface last year. "People are no longer excited about
Corwin," he said.
   Erling Refsum, a drug-industry analyst at Nomura Research
Institute here, said he wouldn't be surprised if ICI stopped
selling the drug entirely. He figures ICI currently reaps no
more than #10 million ($17 million) a year from sales of
Corwin world-wide. ICI's Ms. Grant said the actual number "is
a fraction of that, really," but she declined to be more
specific.
   Corwin won initial clearance in Britain, with use
recommended for patients with mild and moderate forms of
heart failure. It was seen as a possible successor to beta
blockers, heart medications whose development ICI pioneered.
"Corwin was supposed to be one of the great white hopes for a
follow-up to keep them {ICI} up in the world cardiovascular
league," Mr. Refsum recalled.
   But physicians' improper use of the drug among patients
with serious heart failure triggered a higher than expected
number of deaths. ICI wrote physicians about these findings
last summer, Ms. Grant said, and also strengthened warnings
against its use in severely ill patients. The new restriction
grew out of continued talks with the Committee on Safety, she
went on, and the company's belief that "there wasn't adequate
control over prescribing." It's often difficult for doctors
to distinguish between patients with moderate and severe
heart failure conditions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pier 1 Imports' Sales Increase
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   PIR
</CO>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- Pier 1 Imports Inc., a specialty
retailer, said sales for its first quarter ended June 2
increased 22% to $138.4 million from $113.9 million a year
earlier. Sales at stores open at least a year rose 5.5%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Woolworth's Capital Spending
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   Z
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Woolworth Corp., a retailer, said it is
raising its capital spending budget for the year ending Jan.
26, 1991, to $365 million from the $325 million it allotted
earlier. The new sum, which represents a 15% increase from
the $315 million in capital outlays a year earlier, will be
used primarily to open 825 new stores, up from 735 announced
earlier.
   More than 90% of the new sites will be specialty stores,
such as Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker, Kids Mart, Champs
Sports, and Afterthoughts/Carimar.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   RTC Has Swollen Real Estate Inventory
   From Sick S&amp;Ls Despite Recent Big Sales
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The government's storehouse for sick
savings-and-loans sold 13,200 foreclosed S&amp;L properties since
August, but the agency still reported a swelling real estate
inventory.
   Despite those sales, the total inventory held by the
Resolution Trust Corp. increased 14% to 35,908 properties,
valued at $14.92 billion at the time they were seized, most
of them in Texas and the Southwest.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While Texas, with 19,067 properties, still represents by
far the single largest cluster of foreclosed real estate,
several Midwestern and North Central states also showed big
increases. RTC holdings in Iowa, for example, jumped to 98
properties as of March, from 19 in September. Similarly, the
government now holds 74 properties in North Dakota, compared
with none in September, and Arizona's foreclosed property
more than doubled to 1,931 from 863.
   The trend of increased foreclosures across the U.S. will
accelerate in future reports, the RTC predicted. "Later
inventories will show a much broader spread of properties
around the country," warned William Seidman, chairman of the
RTC, established in August to sell sick S&amp;Ls and their
investments, including real estate.
   The latest inventory, which the agency is marketing
through a growing array of tools such as computer disks and
dial-up phone services, represents foreclosed properties as
of March 31. The previous inventory, the first ever, was
issued in January, and included about 30,000 properties
seized by this past September.
   As in the first list, the inventory consists mostly of
residences, with 29,977 houses, condos and mobile homes in
the inventory. And of these, 26,900 are on the market for
less than $100,000.
   But the list also includes everything from a $15,000 pool
hall in Houston, two uranium mines, to the Banning-Lewis
Ranch, a 24,000-acre expanse in Colorado Springs, Colo., that
has seen $250 million of development already.
   The value of all the property currently held by the RTC
was carried on the S&amp;Ls' books at about $14 billion, but will
probably be sold at prices 30% to 40% lower, Mr. Seidman
guesses. The new list excludes 13,200 properties sold, which
had a book value of $1.6 billion; prices of these properties
were unavailable.
   Real estate currently represents about 13% of the RTC's
$173 billion in assets. But the RTC expects that to grow, as
more S&amp;L loans sour that have real estate as collateral.
Other assets, including cash, securities, and performing
loans can be sold much more easily by the agency.
   Because the RTC only recently became more flexible about
pricing, the inventory doesn't reflect changes in asking
price for the real estate the agency still carries. About
one-third of the properties listed in the inventory aren't
priced, because they haven't been appraised.
   The RTC says purchasing interest comes from a variety of
places. Colorado, for example, has made inquiries about
acquiring some of the RTC's 105 mobile homes in that state,
to shelter dozens of people who lost their homes in a recent
tornado. And a special phone line (1-800-782-3006) that
enables callers to find out about specific problems in
particular areas is receiving an average of 2,000 calls a
day.
   The RTC used the occasion of updating its inventory to
launch a new marketing effort. The agency will open 14 sales
centers across the U.S., where buyers can discuss RTC
property in any region. The RTC also made available its lists
on compact laser disks and computer floppy disks. It plans to
hold satellite-linked auctions every four months, and says it
has received interest on possible sales of $500 million
chunks of property.
   "This is the start of our ability to become a true
marketing organization," says Mr. Seidman.
   ---
                 RTC Properties Increase
                                                                                                       

       Government Real Estate Holdings Resulting
              from the S&amp;L Bailout
                                                                                                       

                                            TOTAL
          TOTAL PROPERTIES HELD    PTC.     BOOK VALUE
           SEPT.'89   MARCH '90    CHG.     MARCH '90*
                                                                                                       

 Ala.         178        427       140%     $278.6 million
 Alaska       349        352         1        53.3 million
 Ariz.        863      1,931       124        1.09 billion
 Ark.         340        365         7        64.8 million
 Calif.       397        307       -23       279.5 million
 Colo.      1,586      1,838        16       865.1 million
 Conn.          2          7       250         1.8 million
 Del.           2          2         0     133,854
 D.C.           1          3       200     246,005
 Fla.       1,288      1,456        13       411.6 million
 Ga.          744        661       -11       212.2 million

 Idaho         11         14        27         1.6 million
 Ill.         207        367        77        17.4 million
 Ind.          27         24       -11         4.7 million
 Iowa          19         98       416         9.2 million
 Kansas       332        477        44        66.2 million
 Ky.           38         35       - 8         4.1 million
 La.        2,434      2,890        19       314.3 million
 Maine          0          2       ...     101,079
 Md.           16         17         6         2.2 million
 Mass.          5          3       -40     275,448
 Mich.         12         11       - 8     904,048
 Minn.        113        152        35        39.4 million
 Miss.        384        340       -11        29.2 million
 Mo.           76        162       113        33.2 million
 Mont.         43          2       -95     145,217
 Neb.          68         79        16        15.0 million
 Nev.          34         42        24        30.8 million
 N.H.           1          0      -100           0
 N.J.           8          9        13        20.4 million
 N.M.         637        803        26       133.4 million
 N.Y.          12         18        51        11.7 million
 N.C.          83         60       -28        20.2 million
 N.D.           0         74       ...         5.2 million
 Ohio         115        123         7        18.5 million
 Okla.      1,575      1,926        22       245.9 million
 Ore.         102        167        64        10.0 million
 Pa.          154        279        81        61.9 million
 R.I.           3          0      -100           0
 S.C.          78        132        69        79.2 million
 S.D.           0          0       ...           0
 Tenn.        344        353         3       113.2 million
 Texas     15,750     19,067        21       10.25 billion
 Utah         629        487       -23       85.0 million
 Vt.            0          0       ...          0
 Va.          103        151        47       11.1 million
 Wash.         59         86        46       12.5 million
 W.V.           0          4       ...    343,765
 Wis.          36         46        28        4.9 million
 Wyoming       12         56       367        4.2 million
                                                                                                       

   TOTAL   29,275     35,908        23      14.92 billion
                                                                                                       

   *Book value represents the amount at which a property was
carried on the books of a savings institution seized by the
government. Actual market value estimated to be 30% to 40%
lower, according to the RTC.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   THE RESOLUTION TRUST CORP.'S inventory of real estate
increased 23% between September and March. A story in
Thursday's edition misstated the percentage increase.
   (WSJ June 18, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   After the Euphoria:
   Specter of Capitalism
   Haunts East Germans
   Used to Certainties
   ---
   Prospects of Layoffs, Inequities
   And Meager Means Causes
   Anxiety and Bitterness
   ---
   A New Attentiveness to Work
   ----
   By Frederick Kempe
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   EAST BERLIN -- The bittersweet scent of cocoa beans has
almost vanished from the work stations inside the grimy
redbrick buildings of East Berlin's only chocolate factory.
   Elfe VEB, owner of the factory, has all but stopped making
chocolate and wafers since April. "Our production is almost
nil, and the workers are deeply depressed," says Claudia
Sebastian, the plant's sales and marketing director. "People
here just aren't buying our chocolates. The quality is bad,
and the packaging unattractive. We never had the capital to
invest before, and now we don't have the financing to
compete."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Reunification may be a German dream come true, but it is
giving Mrs. Sebastian nightmares. Elfe, nationalized in 1949,
can't find foreign partners for new investment partly because
its former owners, a family now living in West Berlin, are
trying to regain control of the company. If Elfe goes
bankrupt, Mrs. Sebastian fears that her economics degree will
be worthless on the job market. She got the degree five years
ago through an economics correspondence course that grounded
her in such subjects as Scientific Marxism and Plan
Fulfillment.
   "I came home from the factory and then worked every night
-- sometimes all night during test weeks -- for five years,"
says the 34-year-old Mrs. Sebastian, one of the rare women in
male-dominated East Germany to reach a senior management
position at so young an age. "But if this company closes, I
will be regarded by the unemployment office as an unqualified
worker with a high-school diploma -- nothing more."
   The popular uprising that began East Germany's revolution
has given way to such individual panic. The politics of
German unification, now consuming the four powers in their
talks with the two Germanys, interests few people here
anymore. The specter of capitalism does. From elderly
pensioners to youngsters fresh on the job market, they now
are instead obsessed with more personal and pressing matters
of adjusting to a society for which few have been prepared.
Psychiatrists report new tensions in marriages and more
divorces, crime has quintupled in East Berlin, and previously
unknown gang violence by neo-fascist groups is a frequent
occurrence.
   In May, a conservative victory in the country's first free
elections since the 1930s confirmed the desire of East
Germans for drastic and capitalist change. But the electoral
euphoria has been chilled by government estimates that
anywhere from 15% to 50% of all East German workers may be
unemployed during the transition to capitalism.
   Next month's monetary union will make every East German
jobholder a hard-currency earner -- but there are estimates
that at least seven in 10 East German companies will fold.
Executives of the country's largest car-maker, Ifa-Kombinat,
believe 100,000 of the 150,000 jobs in the auto industry are
endangered. The beer and soft-drink industries estimate that
80% of their jobs could be lost in an invasion by Becks, Coke
and Pepsi. Even those employees who seem likely to keep their
jobs fear that their hard-currency earnings will be too low
to buy much.
   "The question isn't anymore how much unemployment there
will be," says a senior Western diplomat here. "It will be
great. The question is the level of tolerance. How much will
East Germans endure before the situation grows socially
explosive?"
   "We were childish at first in our views about capitalism,"
Mrs. Sebastian at the chocolate factory says. "We thought
those who worked hard in capitalism would earn well and those
who worked little would earn little. But there's much more to
it than that. It was a very childish way of thinking."
   At the Elfe factory, Mrs. Sebastian watches workers trying
to adjust one of their inflexible machines to produce their
first, small Western order. It's a mere packaging order --
the chocolates and even the wrapping have been produced
elsewhere. The West German manufacturer doesn't mention the
East German plant on the label for fear of putting off
customers.
   Two hours south of East Berlin in Dresden, electrical
engineer Herbert Lappe suggests that East Germans are only
now discovering that they are paying the price for their
country's defeat in two wars -- World War II and the Cold
War. "To the victors go the spoils," he frowns, mourning that
West German companies are the winners and "most of us" are
the losers.
   Mr. Lappe has watched the value of his assets disappear.
   Last year, he bought a Commodore personal computer on the
gray market for 23,000 marks, around $13,800 at current
exchange rates, about five times its worth. He knew that
keeping up with Western technology was vital to his future,
and he expected to resell the computer at the same price a
few years later on a market starved for such products. But
its worth fell as quickly as the Berlin Wall, and now he can
get only 1,500 marks, or about $900, for the outmoded
machine.
   His Wartburg car, which he bought for 15,000 marks, once
could be sold five years old for about the same price. He'll
now be lucky to get 3,000 marks for it.
   The mathematics of unification is a painful science for
Mr. Lappe. He now pays eight pfennigs, or about five cents,
per kilowatt hour for electricity, compared to the 31
pfennigs, or about 19 cents, that it costs consumers in West
Germany. He rents his elegant apartment furnished with family
antiques for only 75 marks, or $45, a month. The owners, who
live on the ground floor, were forced by the state to rent
the flat at a price below their own costs of maintenance. But
free to charge a market rent, they will have a small gold
mine, and Mr. Lappe fears they'll either throw him out or
triple his rent.
   "And all of this happens under circumstances when you
don't know if your company will survive," he says. Still, he
is happy that he stands to keep his job at ERW-Elektronik
Dresden. About 1,800 fellow workers will be let go in the
uncertain fight for survival.
   "Some sort of normality will return after a few years, but
the problem is the transitional period," Mr. Lappe says. "We
have lost our old system of values, however flawed it might
have been, but we don't have a new system of values. Everyone
is only thinking of himself at the moment. We have lost the
dream of building any new society, and now we only want to
survive."
   Across town at a state dental clinic, Christa Keller is
one of those, like auto mechanics, carpenters and nurses,
whom popular wisdom considers lucky. As a trained dental
assistant, she has a talent that any society needs. She could
be expected to earn far more when the market sets her wages.
But her boss, a 55-year-old dentist, isn't sure he'll be able
to afford to keep her on. She isn't even sure that he can get
a loan to finance his practice when it becomes private.
   "He simply isn't creditworthy," she says. "Why should
banks, which have so many demands to extend financing, give
any money to a dentist who may have only five more years of
work in him -- 10 at the most? And why should a young dentist
hire a 50-year-old dental assistant like me?"
   Instead of complaining, Mrs. Keller is planning. She makes
delicious sandwiches and salads, and she intends to start a
catering service for business firms. And she is curious about
the possibility of opening American-style fast-food
restaurants in Dresden.
   She also sees that the threat of capitalism "is making
East Germans healthier." Doctors at the clinic aren't as busy
anymore. Workers once took many days off for sicknesses both
real and imagined. Now they are more likely to remain on the
job, trying to show their bosses that they should be the last
to be let go.
   At the dental office, patients once sought apppointments
that were timed to free them from the bulk of the workday,
but now most will come only at the end of the afternoon.
"Uncertainty has its good side, I suppose," says the dental
assistant. "Everyone wants to make a good impression. People
are dressing better, working harder and thinking more. Life
has become more hectic."
   But insecurity, capitalism's ugly brother, has intruded
into the senior citizens' complex on Dresden's
Comeniusstrasse 68 and, like an unwelcome guest, refuses to
leave.
   The twin towers there, reaching a gray 16 floors into a
gray sky, were intended to be an old folks' Utopia. Inhabited
mainly by former Communist Party and government officials,
the towers have a subsidized restaurant, a medical clinic, a
laundry and a social hall, where the elderly could happily
mix and exchange gossip. For their service to socialism many
of them have received the highest possible pension. For
medals and other state honors, they have received a monthly
bonus. Now they expect their incomes to shrink, and some are
bitter.
   "Of course we won't be paid by the new government for the
thousands of hours we spent building this country from
nothing," says a retired truck driver who was the party
secretary at his transportaton company. "We were Communist
because we weren't Fascist. It is an injustice that I must
now suffer for having been courageous enough to work for the
German future." Up until now, he says, his pension has been
double that of the doctor living across the hall.
   Yet Comeniusstrasse 68 was a failed Utopia, and other
residents are pleased by change. They had been suspicious of
each other, wondering which of them were government
informants. Now they chat amicably as they descend in the
elevators for the midday mail, a common daily pilgrimmage.
The local party organization has replaced the building's
party secretary, who always was thought to be asking too many
questions. And the residents' association in January pushed
through a vote to buy a satellite dish for Western
television, an effort that had failed dismally while the
party faithful still controlled the complex.
   Rapid turnover, a natural phenomenon in an old folks'
community, is now producing a more representative mix of
residents. While 75-year-old Helmut Fischer furiously pushes
the buttons of his remote control, curiously watching the
rock video channel, he smiles. "The party once had 90% of the
apartments," he says, "but now it is 70% and falling."
   Yet change at the top tier of government has been far too
rapid to be matched elsewhere in society. In East Berlin, an
economist is complaining as he watches East German television
reports from a European Community meeting in Ireland. "You
see that face," he says, pointing to the East German
correspondent on the screen. "He is a `Genosse'" -- a party
comrade. "He studied in Moscow and was a party member, and
now he talks proudly of how we will be members of the
European Community."
   The economist asks not to be quoted by name because, he
says, his company is still run by those who were appointed by
the country's former leadership. "I was hoping that in the
excitement of the moment, the younger managers would rise up
and have them removed, but instead they have quietly stayed
in the wings and merely waited for change instead of trying
to cause it," he says. Yet he concedes that he is one of the
"cowards."
   East Germans are also disappointed that Western companies
haven't been much interested in forming joint ventures and
building new plants, thus providing investment to compete.
Instead, many appear more interested in simply selling their
own goods here. Instead of creating thousands of jobs, most
only want to hire some sales representatives.
   Ironically, the former party faithful have fared best.
They know the East German bureaucracy, and they made
international contacts in trips abroad. A new elite isn't
created overnight.
   "I see them driving around in their new Mercedeses and it
makes me sick," says Mrs. Sebastian, who has already laid off
80 of her 450 chocolate-factory employees. "The same people
who misguided our economy are now those representing Western
companies and getting rich. Couldn't Western companies look
more carefully for their partners? Where is the justice for
which we had all hoped?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Film: Beatty vs. the Bad Guys in `Dick Tracy'
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   "Dick Tracy," the movie, is a gorgeous piece of pop art,
part comic book, part real. Production designer Richard
Sylbert and cinematographer Vittorio Storaro have created a
world of neon and shadow that's both darkly elegant and
gaudy. Rooftops are blue, streets are green.
   But after a while the movie started to wear on me, like a
conversation with an artfully dressed and stunning man whose
looks are far more interesting than anything he has to say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The problem lies in the stated intention of the people
behind the movie, whose odd ambition -- which they accomplish
-- was to re-create the Chester Gould comic-strip characters
as humans but without adding a third, or human, dimension to
them. This sticks the picture with a rather humorless,
square-jawed Good Guy vs. Bad Guy approach that seems
out-of-sync with its playful design. There's none of the
campy action of the original Superman movie, and none of the
brooding psychological overtones of last summer's cartoon
hit, "Batman."
   It doesn't help that Warren Beatty, the director and star,
has chosen to play Tracy as a dull, sweet-natured man who
seems a remarkably vague presence in a film called "Dick
Tracy." Indeed the only nuance of his character is something
he wears -- a bright yellow fedora and matching trenchcoat.
   For those of you who have limited yourselves to comic-free
papers like this one or the New York Times, Dick Tracy has
been a syndicated feature for almost 60 years. Dick Tracy was
and is a no-nonsense police detective who fights an
assortment of criminals with generally old-fashioned methods
(unimpressive guns, fists). He's a down-to-earth hero, with
no troubling alien identity like Superman, no revenge
fantasies like Batman.
   Though his radio wristwatch was innovative 40 years ago,
Dick Tracy is a low-tech kind of hero.
   Mr. Beatty has been quoted as saying he wanted to make
"Dick Tracy" because he "wanted to be seven years old again."
Yet he is many decades past age seven and has acquired great
sophistication and experience over the years, which may
explain the sharp disparity between the movie's style and its
content. The child in Mr. Beatty apparently was content with
simplistic story and characterization; the adult in him knew
he'd better wrap it all up in something dazzling.
   Most of the flamboyant touches have gone into lighting and
costumes and prosthetics (though none for Mr. Beatty, whose
pretty chin doesn't resemble Dick Tracy's boxy jaw at all).
The Dick Tracy bad guys -- Pruneface, Flat Top, The Brow and
Lips -- are played by humans done up to look like comic-book
grotesques. Much technical care and enough plastic to create
a minor eco-panic have gone into their physical design. Yet
these masks don't hide the lack of characterization. Even
Dustin Hoffman's Mumbles -- the inarticulate mobster --
doesn't really register.
   One might think the material was an impossible limitation
if it weren't for Al Pacino's Big Boy Caprice. Big Boy speaks
lines worth repeating, and Mr. Pacino's sly delivery makes
them easy to remember. Though Mr. Pacino, too, has been
disguised with a hooked nose and body padding and garish
clothing, Big Boy isn't just another amusing costume. Yes,
he's evil, Dick Tracy's arch rival. But he isn't a ruthless
psychopath like Batman's Joker. He's deliriously eccentric, a
gangster as obssessed with making the showgirls at his new
nightclub dance in sync as he is with ruling the city.
   Mr. Pacino gives an exuberant comic performance as this
neurotic megalomaniac who casually compares himself to
Napoleon and Washington. He freely misquotes politicians and
philosophers: "If you aren't for the people, you can't buy
the people," he explains to his fellow gangsters. It is
difficult not to fall in love with a character who blithely
says, "The way I see it, and Plato agrees with me . . ."
   The fights between Dick Tracy and Big Boy are staged as a
series of interruptions to Tracy's attempts to propose
marriage to Tess Trueheart. The talented Glenne Headley does
what she can to liven up Tess's unrelenting niceness.
Inevitably Tess and Tracy sit down at a diner for some apple
pie, they eat, and just as the talk starts to turn to their
relationship his radio wristwatch calls him off to another
emergency, somewhere in the city.
   Gangsters battle each other and Tracy on these stylized
city streets, while a nightclub singer named Breathless
Mahoney keeps on singing at the Club Ritz. As everyone must
know from the hype that has preceded this movie, the
superstar Madonna plays Breathless, and in doing so does a
credible job with the bittersweet songs Stephen Sondheim
wrote for the movie.
   Though the Breathless of the comic strip was purely
villainous, the film makers have put a romantic edge on her
obsession with Tracy. Madonna looks swell in the satiny
dresses clinging to her well-honed body and with her cloud of
platinum hair. She's best at expressing cold disgust, as when
she tells her first patron, the gangster Lips, as he noisily
slurps clams: "Do you mind if I leave? I get sick watching
you eat."
   She's less convincing with the vulnerability the film's
creators have forced onto her character. There is nothing
vulnerable about Madonna. However, her sexual pursuit of
Tracy does give Mr. Beatty an opportunity to act a bit.
Despite his much publicized romance with Madonna, his Tracy
seems impervious to her Breathlessness. When she forces him
to kiss her he looks like a man who's never been kissed and
isn't much interested in starting now.
   Indeed, Mr. Beatty's Tracy seems a little removed from all
the other players, even from the aggressively cute
freckle-faced Kid (Charlie Korsmo) who becomes his protege.
The director and star looks sheepish, as though somewhere
along the way it's hit him that being 53-going-on-seven isn't
as much fun as he thought it would be.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: Much of the contemporary movie-going audience
must be a little baffled by the middle-aged media's
fascination with Warren Beatty. Both his sexual pursuits and
his films belong to an era that has passed. However, that
boyish grin and naive pose once had enormous appeal,
especially at the beginning, with "Splendor in the Grass," in
1961, and later with "Bonnie and Clyde" and "Heaven Can
Wait." In 1981 he made the grandiose "Reds," and apparently
liked the epic form so much he allowed Elaine May to impose
it on the sweet little road picture that "Ishtar" should have
been.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Downscale Racer:
   The Pinto Is Junk,
   But It Sure Is Fast
   ---
   Ford's Disastrous Mistake Is
   Choice of a Stock-Car Set;
   Total Investment: $5,000
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONG POND, Pa. -- The speedsters roar past the grandstand,
leaving behind them the heavy smell of melted rubber and hot
oil. On the backstretch, the car in third place uses the
windbreak created by the two leaders to position itself to
surge into first and steal the checkered flag.
   It is just the sort of breathtaking finish to bring a roar
from the crowd. Except there is no crowd -- unless you
consider the masses at the exits of the Poconos International
Raceway after the day's other races. But, then, these drivers
are used to empty bleachers. They race Pintos.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That's right, the ant-like subcompact pulled off the
market a decade ago amid a hubbub over the car's propensity
to burst into flames when hit in the rear. For Ford Motor
Co., the Pinto was easily its worst failure since the Edsel.
But the car has won a small but die-hard group of fans:
racing enthusiasts with big dreams and little budgets.
   Fifty dollars gets a Pinto from a junkyard. You might have
to haul it home on the back of a flatbed truck, but if you
assemble enough of the junkers you can put together a
racecar. And, best of all, there is no shortage of rusty
heaps from which to choose; Ford built more than a million
before taking the car off the market. "Every junkyard has
100," David Bowers, one of the first to race Pintos, says
happily.
   Installing the required safety equipment and souping up
the engine requires a bit more of an investment, but you can
put a Pinto on the track for less than $5,000, its fans say.
In contrast, racing a Porsche or a Corvette can cost more
than $90,000. And the Pinto isn't exactly the turtle of the
track, either. Some of the top racers have hit speeds of over
120 miles per hour -- pretty respectable for a car designed
to putter around for pennies per mile.
   "This is the most bang for your buck," says Michael
Goldsmith, a 33-year-old television cameraman from Hampstead,
Md., who races a screaming yellow Pinto. Among this sparse
crowd -- there are only 18 Pinto racers -- Mr. Goldsmith is
considered a big spender: He put some $8,000 into his Pinto,
splurging on the paint job and a sophisticated braking
system.
   As Mr. Goldsmith and his fellow drivers see it, Pinto
racing is something that Ford should be proud of, and perhaps
even exploit. After all, the company typically views racing
of its other models as a great marketing opportunity. Ford,
like the other big auto makers, spends millions (it won't say
just how much) to sponsor various forms of the sport.
   "This is the opportunity for them to prove that the Pinto
wasn't as bad as it was made out to be," Mr. Goldsmith says.
"We could take this show on the road and say, `Here's a Pinto
10 years later, and it's still going strong.'"
   But durability wasn't exactly the issue. Introduced in
1970 and pulled from the market a decade later, the car was a
costly debacle -- and a public-relations nightmare -- for
Ford. Critics asserted that the car's gasoline tank was
poorly positioned and, as a result, tended to puncture in
rear-end collisions, causing the car to explode.
   In 1980, an Indiana county prosecutor put Ford on trial on
charges of reckless homicide; Ford was accused of
deliberately taking safety shortcuts in designing the car and
thus causing the death of three teen-agers in a fiery
accident. Ford was acquitted in that case, but it has spent
years fighting a deluge of product-liability lawsuits. The
company is still spending money on the car, mostly for legal
fees.
   So, rather understandably, the charm of the car's
resurrection is lost on the company. "Oh, God]" groans Paul
Preuss, Ford's chief motor-sports spokesman. "I can't believe
somebody is racing Pintos in this day and age."
   Ford has made it quite clear it doesn't want anything to
do with this odd pack. The Pinto racers informally approached
the company about sponsorship several years ago, but gave up
when they got a chilly reception. Other commercial backers
are similarly tough to find. Racing Pintos are just as
colorfully festooned as the other cars on the track -- but
not with sponsors' decals. Some drivers tout pet causes.
"Save the Whales," "Plant a Tree" one car blares.
   Of course, the racing Pinto doesn't much resemble the ones
consumers drove out of showrooms in the 1970s. These cars are
specially modified to meet racing authorities' safety
requirements. Rules require all cars to be equipped with
special steel-and-plastic gas tanks that are virtually
impossible to puncture. Racers also must install internal
fire extinguishers and a roll cage that encases the entire
driver's compartment.
   The Pinto was born again during a late-night drinking
session at David Bowers's home in Alexandria, Va., in 1980.
Mr. Bowers, who works as a budget analyst for the Department
of Defense, is a self-described weekend racing junkie. But,
back then, he was getting increasingly frustrated with the
sport's spiraling costs.
   "You couldn't race competitively for under $20,000," he
says. With a similarly distressed group of racers, he hatched
the idea of racing the Pinto. After a few years of lobbying,
the Sports Car Club of America, which oversees amateur motor
racing, officially recognized the Pinto group as a distinct
racing class.
   The Pinto isn't as odd a candidate for the track as most
would think. Beneath its sheet metal beats the heart of true
racing machine. It has the frame and suspension of a sports
car, the Mustang II. And its 2.3-liter German-made engine is
durable, which makes engine failures less common and holds
down the cost of racing. Enlarge the camshaft, grind down the
cylinder heads, add a high-performance carburetor and you
transform a once-tame econo-box into a speed demon -- of
sorts.
   But racing this car takes more than a good mechanic and
quick reflexes. A sturdy ego is also helpful. Pinto drivers
endure a lot of snubs and sneers. Last year, at Watkins Glen
International Speedway in upstate New York, some Porsche and
BMW drivers objected to racing against Pintos. They feared
the slower cars would clog up the track, endangering other
drivers.
   The Porsche and BMW men dropped their objections after a
hasty -- and, for the Pinto men, humbling -- meeting. The
Pinto drivers managed to convince their foes "they know how
to get out of the way," says Gus Rosenberg, one of the
Porsche drivers.
   "Racing Pintos builds character," says Paul Moorcones, a
tire-store owner from Silver Spring, Md., and a long-time
racer. Once, at a cocktail party, a woman asked him what kind
of car he races. Pintos, he said. That was the end of that
conversation.
   Donald Caldwell, a racing comrade of Mr. Moorcones, agrees
that it takes a special person to race a Pinto -- and he
isn't one of them. Mr. Caldwell's 1983 Toyota Supra would eat
Pinto dust in a race, but the racer nonetheless says he
wouldn't consider driving the faster car. "I just can't see
myself in a Pinto," he says. "I think they are ugly little
cars."
   Being regarded as the pariahs of the racetrack may explain
why the Pinto racers are so closely knit. They help work on
each other's cars, and share parts and tools. Don Coronel,
who won the race at the Poconos Racetrack, won on an engine
given him by a competitor; Mr. Coronel blew out his engine
last year during a qualifying race.
   The Pinto racing crowd is admittedly less pretentious and
more quirky. Bruce Shelton, a 59-year-old cop from
Winchester, Va., says he took up racing years ago while in
the Air Force. One of his early victories: the Spanish
national go-cart championship in 1965.
   Mr. Coronel also caught the racing bug early. A short,
portly electrical engineer, he had childhood dreams of racing
at Indianapolis, but had to settle for a cheaper substitute.
He has an excellent track record in his Pinto. Of the three
races this year, he came in first in every one, including the
one in the Poconos.
   His daredevil style may account for his winning streak.
Intimidation might also. On the tail of his white Pinto, Mr.
Coronel has painted two skulls and crossbones. Between them
is his car's name: "The Terminator."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Plant Improvements
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. said it will spend
$17.7 million to improve its assembly plants in Newark, Del.,
and Sterling Heights, Mich.
   The plant improvements, scheduled to begin in early July,
are intended to improve car quality and customer
satisfaction. One improvement, called the "hot car concept,"
will supply electrical power to the cars as they move through
the assembly process, allowing operators to verify
performance of electrical parts and circuitry at the time of
installation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Newark plant builds the Dodge Spirit and Plymouth
Acclaim; the Sterling Heights plant builds the Dodge Shadow
and Plymouth Sundance.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Increase in Child-Abuse Cases Is Linked
   To Rising Cocaine Problem, Study Says
   ----
   By Cathy Trost
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Cocaine and crack use is straining the
nation's child welfare agencies with child-abuse and neglect
cases and contributing to an increase in the number of
children placed in foster care, according to a congressional
report.
   "Drug-exposed parents and children are placing growing
demands on the child welfare system," said the report
released yesterday by the Human Resources Subcommittee of the
House Ways and Means Committee. "The upsurge in crack use has
been blamed for the increase in the number of reported cases
of child abuse and neglect, the increased severity of child
abuse, and the number of children placed in out-of-home
care."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The child welfare system is "so overloaded by crack
cocaine that it is about to short circuit," warned Rep.
Thomas Downey (D., N.Y.), the subcommittee's acting chair. He
and Rep. George Miller (D., Calif.), who heads the Select
Committee on Children, Youth and Families, introduced
legislation to provide states more resources for prevention,
treatment and other services for drug-affected families.
   The report parallels growing concern over increasing
births of drug-exposed babies and their ability to cope in
school and beyond. It draws together wide-ranging information
about the effects of cocaine and its fiercely addictive
derivative, crack cocaine, on families and child welfare,
drug treatment and health-care systems.
   More than 100,000 cocaine-exposed babies were born in
1988, according to the report, a figure that could rise to
between 500,000 and four million in 10 years.
   Crack has been linked to an increase in the number of
abuse and neglect cases reported since the mid-1980s, when
the drug first emerged. The report said drug abuse is a
significant factor in more than 70% of the child welfare
cases in some agencies. It has become "the dominant
characteristic" in case loads of child protective-service
agencies in 22 states and the District of Columbia. One
survey cited in the report said 675,000 children a year are
seriously mistreated by an alcoholic or drug-abusive
caretaker.
   The shortage-plagued foster-care system is also feeling
the impact of drug-exposed babies and their often fragmented
families. Data cited in the report said foster-care
placements rose nationally by 29% to 360,000 in 1989 from
280,000 in 1986. Though no link can be conclusively drawn
between drug use and the rise in placements, the report said
increased placements are concentrated in areas heavily
affected by crack abuse, such as California and New York.
Those two states were responsible for 55% of the increase in
foster placements nationally.
   Despite these problems, there is a severe shortage of
drug-treatment programs for pregnant women. Just 16% of New
York City's drug-treatment programs, for instance, serve
pregnant women addicted to crack.
   The report also documents increased costs of health care
for cocaine-involved pregnancies, including abandoned or
"boarder" babies, and future effects on educational, mental
health and juvenile justice systems.
   Mr. Downey said legislation to address the problem would
cost $5 billion over five years. But "we will save many lives
and billions more than this bill costs" through early
intervention efforts, he said. "We believe this bill has the
same place that the budget summit has in the priorities of
this country."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merrill Executives Who Led Push
   Into Junk to Be Relieved of Duties
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MER WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The two executives who engineered Merrill
Lynch &amp; Co.'s push into the junk-bond market will give up
management duties as part of a restructuring in Merrill's
investment banking division.
   In a move expected to be announced today, Raymond Minella
and Jeffrey Berenson, who jointly headed Merrill's merchant
banking operations, including high-yield junk bonds, will be
reassigned. Their new role will be to focus "on certain of
the firm's key merchant banking clients and on executing
major transactions," according to an internal memo
distributed late yesterday to Merrill investment bankers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The top-level shifts come as Merrill, saddled with too
many takeover-related loans and troubled junk bonds, is
pulling in its horns and shunning riskier investment banking
deals.
   The collapse of the junk bond market last year has left
Merrill, the nation's biggest securities firm, and others on
Wall Street with no way to refinance "bridge" loans
outstanding that they made to help corporate clients finance
takeovers. Merrill has $530 million of these "hung" bridges,
which it is trying to pare down, and $350 million in
junk-bond inventory.
   In some ways, Messrs. Minella and Berenson become the
latest casualties of the changing face of the junk-bond
market. In an interview, Barry S. Friedberg, Merrill's head
of investment banking, said the management changes don't
represent demotions for Messrs. Minella and Berenson.
Instead, with the junk market depressed, Merrill sees
management challenges that don't necessarily play to the
strengths of Messrs. Minella and Berenson, he said.
   While praising the two men as among the best investment
bankers on Wall Street, Mr. Friedberg said: "All of us have
concluded that given the difficulties of this environment
over the past 18 months, that our interests will be better
served by having them in this role."
   As part of Merrill's strategic change, Merrill is setting
up a new department -- High Yield Finance and Restructuring
-- that absorbs the merchant banking machinery that Mr.
Minella, 41 years old, and Mr. Berenson, 40, had run. This
new department will be headed by 37-year-old Thomas Davis, a
leading Merrill merchant banker, and Nate Thorne, 36, who has
run the firm's restructuring business for the past four
years.
   Brian Barefoot, 47, continues as head of junk sales and
trading, but now reports directly to Mr. Friedberg, instead
of Messrs. Minella and Berenson.
   Messrs. Minella and Berenson, who couldn't be reached to
comment, worked closely together to craft Merrill's strategy
in the $200 billion public junk market. They are credited in
Wall Street circles with popularizing bridge loans; these
temporary loans, to be repaid by selling junk bonds, helped
fuel the explosive growth of takeovers and earned big fees
for Merrill and other firms with deep pockets. And the two
men were instrumental in Merrill's efforts to replace defunct
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. as the leading junk-bond
underwriter.
   Messrs. Minella and Berenson will continue to serve as
co-chairmen of Merrill's merchant banking commitment
committee, which doesn't have much to do these days. In
merchant banking, Wall Street firms invest their own money,
often along with their clients', in takeovers, leveraged
buy-outs and other deals.
   In moving away from the highly leveraged takeover
transactions that filled Wall Street's coffers during most of
the 1980s, Merrill is anticipating that it will make the most
money in the early 1990s from helping to restructure
corporations that took on too much debt during the heyday of
junk bonds.
   Now, the junk business that Messrs. Minella and Berenson
used to head has slowed to a crawl. Through June 4, just four
new junk issues have been brought to market by Wall Street,
totaling a paltry $382 million -- a 97% drop from the 55
issues totaling $12.4 billion in the year-earlier period,
according to Securities Data Co. (For its part, Merrill's one
new issue this year, for Sullivan Graphics Inc., raised $100
million.)
   The bottom line, Merrill executives say: Just $1 million
in junk-bond underwriting fees for all of Wall Street so far
this year, compared with $36 million a year earlier.
   Merrill believes the junk-bond and takeover market won't
recover for at least two to three years. Meantime, it wants
to focus on restructurings, or helping troubled firms
recapitalize, refinance and reorganize their operations.
   The new high-yield finance and restructuring department
will reflect that focus. Restructurings of overleveraged or
bankrupt companies will be handled primarily by Mr. Thorne,
and "reset" issues and other corporate finance for
less-troubled companies by Mr. Davis.
   Messrs. Minella and Berenson are likely to handle more
reset issues than restructurings, people familiar with the
firm said. Resets are bonds on which the issuer has promised
to reset the interest rate by a certain date so the bonds
trade at or near their face value. Reset issues have proven
an enormous problem for some highly leveraged companies that
can't afford to pay the new rates required.
   Among Messrs. Minella and Berenson's first jobs is
expected to be RJR Nabisco Inc.'s closely watched efforts to
reset or otherwise handle $6 billion of its junk bonds, Wall
Street executives said.
   Merrill officials say emphatically that they want to pare
the firm's bridge-loan exposure, and keep the firm's
junk-bond inventory steady or a bit lower. More important,
Merrill says it wants to protect itself by diversifying its
junk inventory.
   Currently, its largest junk-bond position is $50 million
of Donald Trump's Taj Mahal casino bonds, according to Wall
Street executives. That represents about one-sixth of
Merrill's total junk inventory. Although that's about
one-tenth the total amount of the Taj bonds oustanding, it is
far less than the Taj holdings that Merrill has been widely
rumored to have.
   Merrill executives declined to comment on the Taj Mahal
position. Wall Street executives familiar with Merrill's
operations said the firm's junk-bond trading has been
reasonably profitable this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Belmoral Mines Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS BMEEF
</CO>
<LP>
   BELMORAL MINES Ltd. (Toronto) -- J. Gordon Strasser,
acting president and chief executive officer of this gold
mining company, was confirmed in the posts, succeeding
Kenneth Dalton, who retired as chairman and chief executive,
and Clive Brown, who retired as president. Messrs. Dalton and
Brown remain directors. A new chairman wasn't named.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Great Western Says
   SEC Has Launched
   `Informal Inquiry'
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   GWF
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Great Western Financial Corp. is under scrutiny by the
Securities and Exchange Commission for possible violations of
disclosure and accounting rules.
   Great Western, a big thrift based in Beverly Hills,
Calif., disclosed in an SEC filing that the agency has begun
an "informal inquiry" centering on Great Western's $200
million of fourth-quarter write-downs and additions to
loan-loss reserves.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In general, informal inquiries are designed to determine
whether enough grounds exist for the SEC to pursue a formal
investigation, which can lead to civil or criminal charges.
   In the filing, Great Western said the agency contacted it
on June 8 and requested documents related to the company's
1989 consolidated financial statements. It said the SEC
informed Great Western that it was inquiring into "timing"
and "internal controls" related to the write-downs and
loan-loss provisions.
   Great Western said in the filing that it believes the
financial statements "fairly present its financial position
and its provision and write-down were properly recorded." A
spokesman declined to elaborate.
   The $200 million of write-downs and reserve additions
chopped Great Western's net income for 1989 to $100.1
million, or 78 cents a share, from a year-earlier $248.4
million, or $1.95 a share. The charges erased gains in Great
Western's core lending operations, which continued to perform
well in the first quarter, when Great Western earned $74.2
million, or 58 cents a share. In last year's first quarter,
Great Western had profit of $57.2 million, or 45 cents a
share. The thrift has relatively strong capitalization, with
tangible capital of 4.8% of assets.
   Some industry executives suggested that the SEC's interest
in Great Western might indicate the agency, like other
regulatory bodies, is taking a tougher look at thrifts in
light of the S&amp;L debacle. Regulators -- including the SEC --
have been bitterly criticized by some politicians and
industry officials for permitting some thrift operators to
run amok, contributing to a financial disaster that now is
expected to cost anywhere from $325 billion to $500 billion.
   The Great Western inquiry was disclosed after the market
closed. In New York Stock Exchange composite trading
yesterday, the stock closed at $18.875, down $1.625.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Creative Energy:
   GE's Latest Invention --
   A Way to Move Ideas
   From Lab to Market
   ---
   With Nurturing Environment
   And `Cross-Pollination,'
   Research Thrives, and Sells
   ---
   A GM Pilgrim in Schenectady
   ----
   By Amal Kumar Naj
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   GE GM
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Piero Bonissone never fancied himself a salesman. Quite
the opposite: He's intense, bookish and a top scientist at
General Electric Co. A few years ago, he developed an
artificial intelligence program to pinpoint problems in
locomotives. But now Mr. Bonissone has come up with a
surprising new version of his program with a quite different
purpose: identifying corporate takeover targets. And he's
just sure it can earn bundles of money for GE.
   So now the 39-year-old scientist finds himself in the
unlikely position of stalking Gabriel Samothrakis, who also
works for GE -- as a technology expert in its Kidder Peabody
&amp; Co. investment banking unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bonissone plots his strategy carefully. He figures a
hard sell won't work. So he invites Mr. Samothrakis to a
meeting of academics and bankers at which he reveals just a
hint of his invention. And then, with Mr. Samothrakis's
appetite whetted, Mr. Bonissone plans to set up a one-on-one
meeting, moving in for the kill.
   What's going on here? It's a part of the life of a
researcher at GE, where Mr. Bonissone sits in a chaotic
office surrounded by books on computational logic and
esoteric journals, but says: "I also have to be
entrepreneurial."
   GE is turning around the equation of U.S. business.
Instead of pushing marketers to come up with ideas and then
asking scientists to make them work, the company increasingly
gives researchers wide berth to imagine and invent -- and
then shop the invention around GE's divisions.
   The result: GE and its scientist-salesmen regularly manage
to transfer technology from the laboratory to the market, a
transition that frequently baffles American business.
   U.S. companies lead the world in inventing and innovating,
but often drop the ball after that. "I give American
companies C-minus when it comes to nurturing and managing
technology," says William Sommers, a technology expert at the
consulting firm Booz Allen &amp; Hamilton Inc. "Those that do
relatively well are too few."
   A big reason may be that the companies' research and
development culture itself stifles commercialization. "The
right environment alone can raise productivity 75% to 100%,"
says Walter Robb, the head of GE's R&amp;D, who has gone to
unusual lengths to promote technology transfer.
   GE's record is hardly flawless. The company developed a
new compressor for its refrigerators, failed to consider
adequately its potential for failure, and ended up losing
$450 million when it turned out to be unreliable. Even so, of
250 technology projects GE undertook between 1982 and 1986,
an internal study done by Booz Allen found that 150 produced
major applications. The average for U.S. industry is one in
10. Most companies fail to "identify and spread their core
technologies," says Booz Allen's Mr. Sommers.
   At GE, because researchers are supposed to sell their
ideas around the whole company, they sometimes find
applications far afield from the original intentions.
Something invented to protect coal-spraying nozzles in an
experimental locomotive ended up creating a new generation of
energy-saving light bulbs. A medical diagnostic technology
used for imaging the human body became a cost-saving device
for inspecting jet engines. Sophisticated coating and
machining techniques developed for aircraft engines got
transferred to GE's power generation business.
   Competitors and analysts say the cross-pollination of
technology and the ability to find a profitable use for it
are major factors in GE's three straight years of
double-digit earnings growth and its optimistic long-term
outlook. It's also helping the $55 billion company shed its
image as a hodgepodge conglomerate in lighting, medical
equipment, plastics, power generation and aircraft engines.
"The synergies aren't obvious, but they help GE dominate in
its markets," says David Gardner, an analyst who follows GE
at Nomura Research.
   Not surprisingly, this attracts a host of rival executives
to GE's Schenectady, N.Y., research center to learn how GE
cycles new technology through the company. "We have the
finest technologies we need, but getting them into production
is where we need to make improvement," says Donald Runkle,
vice president of General Motors Corp.'s advanced engineering
staff and a recent Schenectady pilgrim. Mr. Runkle says he is
studying "rules and incentives that set the environment for
transferring technology" from the laboratory to the market.
"We think GE has something to offer us."
   That example starts with the nurturing climate at its
Schenectady R&amp;D hub, a sprawling complex on 600 acres with
1,800 researchers, including 500 Ph.D.s.
   Mr. Robb, research and development chief since 1986, is
the first R&amp;D director at GE with experience in manufacturing
(plastics and medical operations). Manufacturing types are
usually bottom-line oriented. But Mr. Robb has increased
funding for risky, long-term basic research by more than 50%,
although he will not reveal specific figures. GE's total R&amp;D
budget is $1.33 billion.
   At the same time, he is working to foster close, informal
contacts between researchers of different disciplines. He
insists, for example, that they vary their table-mates in the
cafeteria.
   Researchers are regularly treated to art exhibits (most
recent: Leonardo da Vinci) and classical-music concerts in
the atrium of the corporate research and development center,
also known as CR&amp;D.
   Mr. Robb says he wants to emphasize creativity, whether
that means art or a new kind of plastic. Mr. Robb, a singer,
formed the CR&amp;D Choral Group, and the notice of the first
performance hangs on bulletin boards next to announcements of
such meetings as one on "the design and operation of a
municipal mass-burn incinerator."
   Mr. Robb also has started a regular Friday evening "free
beer and pretzel party." The gathering starts with his
announcement of the price of GE stock and sometimes includes
his card tricks or a pat on the back for a scientist. But
mostly it's an occasion to trade ideas and schmooze.
   This informality has produced concrete results. GE
theoretician Richard Messmer gave a talk one day in 1988
about how a plastic molecule could be rearranged so it would
conduct electricity. Clifford Spiro, a chemist who had
attended the talk, then dropped into the beer and pretzel
social hour. William Banholzer, an engineer, was there, too.
The chemist and the engineer got to talking about Mr.
Messmer's theory. And then they got to work.
   Late this month, they will file for a patent covering
their technique. Mr. Spiro says it will have electronic
applications, including plastic batteries. Says Mr. Spiro:
"At informal gatherings you talk to people you wouldn't
normally on a problem."
   Four years ago, metallurgist Harvey Cline was developing a
method of measuring the surface topography of silicon chips,
which would show the wafers' defects. The technique
essentially involved measuring three dimensions of hair-thin
surfaces. Then one day, GE's medical division sent a man from
Milwaukee to talk at the R&amp;D center about the need for
three-dimensional imaging for medical purposes.
   Mr. Cline thought he could use his research in chips to
solve the medical problem. He teamed up with a computer
graphic designer, William Lorensen. Mr. Cline says that for
weeks he worked with Mr. Lorensen without seeking approval
from his manager. "Interdisciplinary work is encouraged
here," he says. "Then, when my manager in electronics saw
what I was doing, he was encouraging."
   Mr. Cline says he then switched departments and worked
directly for the Milwaukee-based medical division, without
having to leave Schenectady.
   "I didn't know any medical physics," says Mr. Cline. It
took him three years to learn about human bone, tissue and
muscle, often using a medical CT (computed tomography)
scanner on Mr. Lorensen. He was able to apply a novel
mathematical technique drawn from his silicon days. And he
finally succeeded.
   Although the technology is still being developed,
three-dimensional imaging will help pinpoint targets in brain
surgery and other complex operations. These machines are
aimed at the estimated $100 million-a-year market for 3-D
imaging, where currently two-dimensional data are
extrapolated into three-dimensional images, says Philip Drew,
a medical-equipment consultant in Concord, Mass.
   GE's culture allows a researcher who hits a brick wall in
one department to move to another. Dominic Cusano, a
physicist at the R&amp;D center, had long believed that GE's CT
machine was inefficient, converting only a third of the
X-rays it scanned to images. The problem was the xenon gas
used to detect the X-rays. But in 1980 the medical division
gave up looking for a substitute.
   Mr. Cusano, however, did not. He walked across the hall at
the R&amp;D center to a ceramic lab, where Charles Greskovich was
using ceramics to make a "lamp envelope," the small chamber
inside a light bulb that holds filaments. "I said, Charlie, I
am stuck," recalls Mr. Cusano.
   Although Mr. Greskovich knew little about CT machines, he
did know how to build complex crystal structures. The pair
collaborated informally for three years, often on Friday
afternoons. Management supported their efforts because both
had excellent track records.
   Sure enough, they eventually developed a crystalline
solid-state detector to capture X-rays for imaging. GE says
this device produces images five times better than those
produced by xenon gas. The new scanners have brought in more
than $100 million in sales.
   And the researchers were able to show other divisions of
the company how they could benefit from the development. The
scanners now not only serve the medical division, but are
also used to inspect the inside of GE's jet engines and steer
laser drills in the manufacture of turbine blades, saving
more than $2 million a year in labor and material costs
alone.
   N.V. Philips' director of CT marketing and sales support,
Walter Cullen, concedes that GE's solid-state detector gives
GE machines "an advantage" by producing better images. "But
solid state is more expensive to maintain and run," he says.
   It wasn't always like this at GE. Lowell Steele, a former
GE R&amp;D planner, recalls his frustrations in the late 1970s
trying to apply the company's knowledge chips, circuitry and
other electronics to process the transactions of GE Capital,
a financial arm. "I got some scars from pushing that
technology," says Mr. Steele.
   Similarly, in the late 1970s, GE's medical division was so
content with its CT machines that it turned a deaf ear to its
engineers' proposal to develop a magnetic resonance imaging
(MRI) diagnostic machine, which uses a powerful magnetic
field to develop images of the inside of the human body. "I
was told it was too researchy," recalls Rowland Redington,
the father of GE's MRI research.
   Only after competitors' machines hit the market did GE
turn to Mr. Redington's team at the R&amp;D center. That lateness
might have doomed GE's effort.
   However, once GE got started, it managed to produce an MRI
just a year after Philips, Siemens and a dozen small U.S.
companies had. GE recovered quickly by pulling together
technology from different businesses. For the powerful
magnets used in MRI, it drew upon the design expertise at its
power generation business, and circuitry from military
electronics. Now GE dominates the American MRI market with an
estimated 46% share.
   To ensure such cross-pollination, about 35 of the R&amp;D
center's 1,800 researchers transfer annually to various GE
manufacturing operations.
   William Hackett, an electrical engineer, has moved from
appliances to power generation to the electrical distribution
and control business (ED&amp;C), and then to electronics,
aerospace and lighting -- cross-pollinating technology all
the while.
   At ED&amp;C, for example, he applied a painting technique from
the appliance business to electrical switch gears, saving
$300,000 a year in labor and material because of the improved
process. "The process also increased durability of the switch
gear and it became a marketing feature for us," Mr. Hackett
says. "What appears unique in one area is transferable."
   General Motors is one company taking its cue from GE to
change its R&amp;D approach. GM recently decreed that its
researchers spend 15% of their time pondering what technology
they could transfer and where. Mr. Runkle, the head of
advanced engineering, says GM also has begun transferring
researchers who develop a technology to the site of
application.
   That jump is hard to take, as Mr. Bonissone, the GE
artificial-intelligence expert, can attest. His program,
which at first identified problems with locomotives, was
modified to find problems in jet engines and plastics. Then
it was modified for use by the Pentagon on ships, submarines
and fighter planes to prepare them for instantaneous counter
measures in enemy attacks. So it makes perfect sense to him
that Kidder Peabody should use the program. "As in war," he
says, "you have raiders and targets in mergers and
acquisition."
   But Mr. Samothrakis is not convinced. The technology "must
prove that it can make money for us," he says.
   Their meeting will probably be later this summer. Says Mr.
Bonissone: "It's clearly going to be a selling job."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bonds Rally as Weak May Retail Sales Report
   Revives Speculation That Fed Will Ease Credit
   ----
   By Anita Raghavan and Susan Scherreik
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR FRE C CCE EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A surprisingly weak May retail sales report
caught the bond market off guard, igniting a rally that
pushed bond yields to the lowest levels since February.
   Prices of the benchmark 30-year bond rose nearly 7/8
point, or $8.75 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The
issue's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its
price, eased to 8.38%. That was the lowest yield on a
benchmark bond since February 13.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bond market began to move immediately after the
government reported that retail sales fell 0.7% in May. The
government also said it revised downward April and March
retail sales. The drop in last month's retail-sales data
revived speculation that the Federal Reserve will soon loosen
its grip on credit to perk up a sluggish economy.
   Before the news on retail sales, "investors had pretty
much accepted the statements by Fed officials that the
central bank has no intention of easing policy in the
future," said Charles Lieberman, a managing director at
Manufacturers Hanover Securities Corp. "Now, it's re-emerged
as a good possibility."
   Activity was also brisk in the junk-bond market, where a
strong rally in the bonds of RJR Nabisco Inc. spread to the
entire junk bond market.
   The RJR rally was triggered by a story that appeared in
yesterday's Wall Street Journal, which said that Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts &amp; Co. plans to inject $1.7 billion into the
food and tobacco giant. RJR was taken private early last year
in a record $25 billion leveraged buy-out by Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts. RJR is the single biggest issuer of junk bonds.
   "It has been an astounding day," said David Feinman, a
junk-bond trader at Los Angeles-based Jefferies &amp; Co. "This
is the way it used to be in terms of trading volume and
action."
   RJR Nabisco's 14.07% convertible pay-in-kind debentures,
due in 2009, finished 7 3/8 points higher to close at 90 3/4
on the New York Stock Exchange. Pay-in-kind bonds, which are
extremely volatile, pay interest in the form of more
securities instead of cash.
   The other widely held RJR issue, the 14.07% exchangeable
pay-in-kind debentures, maturing in 2007, gained 7 3/8 points
to close at 76 3/4.
   Trading volume in the exchangeable debentures was
extremely heavy, with more than $25 million face value of
bonds changing hands.
   Alan Schlesinger, manager of high-yield trading at
Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp., said the report
suggests that one of the problems -- the uncertainty over
whether RJR would be able to reset the bonds at a favorable
rate -- has disappeared.
   "When you remove some of the uncertainty from the
marketplace, it takes another obstacle to prevent it from
going up," said Mr. Schlesinger.
   The possible cash injection is designed to raise the price
of the two RJR bond issues so that they don't have to be
reset at prohibitively high interest rates. The coupon on the
two issues must be reset no later than April 28, 1991, so
that the bonds trade at par.
   The robust gains in the RJR issues rippled through the
junk bond market, sparking a rally and triggering gains of
3/4 point to 1 point.
   Dirk Van Doren, a high-yield analyst at McCarthy Crisanti
&amp; Maffei Inc., said although it had been rumored for some
time that KKR would buy back the RJR pay-in-kind bonds, it
wasn't clear where funds for the buy-back would come from.
   "Now it's not a question of funds, now it's a question of
whether KKR wants to pull the trigger" by buying back the
bonds or launching an exchange offer, said Mr. Van Doren. "In
my mind, KKR will wait."
   Mr. Van Doren said if the fundamentals of the company are
strong, then the bonds will automatically trade at prices
that would allow KKR to reset the rate at a favorable level.
   RJR pay-in-kind bonds were not the only gainers Wednesday.
RJR's zero-coupon bonds sprinted up 3 5/8 points to 47 5/8,
while RJR's 13.5% subordinated debentures, maturing in 2001,
advanced 1 1/2 points to 96.
   RJR's warrants, surprisingly, also rose. After climbing
one point initially, the warrants closed up 1/4 point at 7
1/8 on the New York Stock Exchange.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury bonds jumped yesterday after the Commerce
Department reported weaker-than-expected retail sales for
May.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late at a
price of 103 30/ 32 to yield 8.38% compared with 103 4/32 to
yield 8.45% on Tuesday. The latest 10-year notes ended at 103
4/32 to yield 8.38% compared with 102 17/32 to yield 8.47%.
   Short-term rates moved moderately lower. The discount rate
on three-month Treasury bills fell to 7.67% for a
bond-equivalent yield of 7.91%. The rate on six-month bills
fell to 7.58% for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.97%.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   A $710 million New York City general-obligation bond issue
dominated the tax-exempt arena, prompting good investor
response, especially from the retail sector, underwriters
reported.
   Meanwhile, municipal bonds traded up 1/8 to 1/4 point in
quiet secondary-market dealings.
   The New York City bonds, which included new money and
refunding bonds, were priced to yield from 6% in 1990 to
7.90% in 2018-2028.
   The bonds are rated single-A by Moody's Investors Service
Inc. and single-A-minus by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., excluding
bonds due in 1998-2000, and 2013-2017, which are insured and
rated triple-A by both ratings services.
   Officials with the lead underwriter, Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets, were meeting with city officials to determine
whether the deal would be repriced and couldn't be reached
for comment late yesterday.
   Among actively traded bonds, the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.20% securities of 2018 were up 1/8 point at 98
5/8 to yield 7.31%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-backed securities prices ended around yesterday's
highs, having risen at the outset of trading as news of a
surprise drop in retail sales in May pumped up U.S.
Treasurys.
   Most discount issues posted gains of about 3/8 to 1/2
point, while premium issues were 1/8 to 3/8 firmer from late
Tuesday. Government National Mortgage Association 9.5%
securities gained 13/32 to 99 19/ 32, Ginnie Mae 10% issues
were up 11/32 at 101 31/32 and Ginnie Mae 12.5% securities
advanced 1/8 to 109 7/8.
   Traders say the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.'s
decision to revamp its mortgage-securities program,
shortening the payment delay between the time homeowners make
their monthly payment and the time investors receive payments
from Freddie Mac via its new Gold PC program, isn't affecting
prices of existing Freddie Mac securities.
   Freddie Mac 9.5% securities were 13/32 firmer at 98 29/32,
10% securities were 3/8 higher at 100 30/32 and 12%
securities were up 1/8 at 106 22/32.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   Investment-grade bonds were also stronger yesterday, with
most intermediate-term issues rising 1/2 point.
   Bids for the bonds of Chrysler Corp. disappeared yesterday
after Moody's Investors Service Inc. placed the auto maker's
senior debt under review for possible downgrade.
   Corporate bond traders said although Chrysler securities
didn't actually trade lower, bids for the bonds vanished as
soon as the story hit the newswires.
   Meanwhile, about $350 million in new debt was priced
yesterday including a fiveyear $250 million issue of
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. notes. The non-callable notes were
priced to yield 9.02%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   British government bonds, called gilts, ended higher on
various factors, including a strong rise in U.S. Treasury
bonds.
   The U.K. market opened higher as sterling continued to
firm on expectations that Britain shortly will enter the
exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System.
   When the U.S. bond market started to rise on news of a
weak retail sales report, gilts continued to gain strength.
   Among benchmarks, Britain's 11.75% bond due 2003/2007 was
up 29/32 at 102 to yield 11.45%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   White House Damage-Control Teams Struggle
   To Make Sure Thrift Bailout Doesn't Sink Bush
   ----
   By David Wessel and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Just 17 days after taking office last year,
George Bush unveiled a plan to repair the savings-and-loan
industry so that, in his words, "the country won't have to
face this problem again."
   Today, the Bush administration is taking a new look at the
savings-and-loan fiasco, and is finding it bigger and more
vexatious than ever. Some advisers fear the mess, which the
president tried to pass off last year as an "inherited"
problem, threatens to envelop the Bush presidency.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The financial calamity is undercutting Mr. Bush's
optimistic assertion just four months ago in his State of the
Union address that the federal deficit is on a downward path.
It is pushing him toward surrendering his politically potent
pledge of "no new taxes." And by diverting money, public
attention and time of top aides, it may devour his domestic
agenda.
   Mr. Bush's aides are beginning to fear that "S&amp;L hell"
could hurt his 1992 re-election bid. "Everyone is worried
about it because it is so large," says Robert Teeter, Mr.
Bush's pollster. One Democrat, Sen. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska,
is calling Mr. Bush "the savings-and-loan president."
Recurrent headlines about the president's son, Neil, a former
director of a failed Colorado thrift who has been accused of
conflicts of interest by regulators, don't make the White
House rest any easier.
   The latest occasion for all this discomfort is the
administration's admission that it badly underestimated the
cost of the thrift bailout last year. Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady now says the government would have to write a
check today for as much as $130 billion -- roughly twice his
original estimate -- to make up the difference between
Americans' deposits in government-insured savings and loans
and the current value of the institutions' assets.
   How much is $130 billion? Well, it's 30% more than the
salaries of all the schoolteachers in America. It's more than
the combined 1989 profits of the Fortune 500 largest
industrial companies -- every single one from General Motors
Corp. (No. 1) to Affiliated Publications Inc. (No. 500). It
would send 1.6 million kids through four years at Yale
University, room and board included. And that doesn't include
either the $52 billion still needed to pay for thrifts that
the government seized and unloaded before George Bush became
president or the multibillion-dollar interest tab. (Even
yesterday, the Congressional Budget Office raised its
estimate of the cost to $150 billion.)
   The embarrassing miscalculation is provoking an orgy of
finger-pointing within the administration. "Treasury was
doing the numbers side of things," says Richard Breeden, who
was the White House point man on savings and loans until he
became chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission
last fall. Others at the White House fault Mr. Breeden. "It
was Breeden's baby and he didn't share it too readily," says
one White House official.
   A gaggle of top administration officials now insist -- off
the record, of course -- that they questioned the Treasury's
figures internally, but bowed to Treasury officials'
conviction that their estimates were sound. But Treasury
Undersecretary Robert Glauber says that isn't so. "They
certainly said we should make sure there's enough money," he
says. "I don't recall anyone saying we should go for more
money."
   Combined with infighting within the thrift bureaucracy and
other snafus, the new estimates change the politics of the
problem, making it tough for Mr. Bush to position himself as
the president who solved the problem. "If it drags on," frets
one White House official, "the people in office at the time
will be blamed."
   The numbers also have altered the administration's budget
strategy, propelling George Bush into a budget summit with
congressional Democrats. "One of the reasons we thought it
important to get moving on the budget," White House Budget
Director Richard Darman told a Senate committee recently,
"was the prospect of all this additional borrowing in a
relatively compressed period." The administration also hopes
to use the budget summit to get the additional money it needs
for the thrift cleanup without reopening the whole
troublesome issue.
   With one eye on Mr. Bush's re-election and another on
minimizing the cost to taxpayers, top White House officials
are getting increasingly involved in the S&amp;L rescue, a
mission that until recently they had left in the Treasury's
hands. "People {in the White House} have focused on the fact
that . . . there's going to be an attempt to lay this at the
president's door," one Treasury official says.
   White House Chief of Staff John Sununu has stepped in,
huddling with Mr. Brady by phone and in person to discuss the
thrift bailout. "Now that Sununu sees the Democrats testing
it out as a political issue, it's on his computer screen,"
says one administration official. "People are talking about
the issue in the White House: `What should we say? What kind
of spin should we put on it? How do we get Neil Bush off the
front page?'"
   Mr. Darman and White House Counsel Boyden Gray, who
advised Mr. Bush on regulatory issues in the Reagan years,
are also devoting much more time to keeping an eye on the
Treasury.
   Some administration officials are even beginning to wonder
whether the Treasury's original solution to the problem -- as
modified by Congress -- is making it worse rather than
better. By nationalizing sick S&amp;Ls as quickly as possible and
then trying to sell off a mounting stockpile of assets,
officials fear they may be increasing the ultimate cost of
the bailout.
   "One of the things we have learned," says William Seidman,
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., "is that if
you put these things in a junkyard, they lose value."
Managers, even the good ones, leave. Customers flee.
Reluctant buyers grow even more wary. And the cost to the
taxpayer balloons.
   In a far-ranging search for alternatives, the White House
and the thrift bureaucracy are even considering a politically
risky plan to use government money to prop up some sick
thrifts, in the hope that their assets will eventually
increase in value, Mr. Seidman says. A little-noted provision
in the thrift-bailout law passed last year allows such
assistance.
   Although that option might save money in the long run, it
is fraught with risk. It bears a frightening resemblance to
the mistakes of the past. After all, one big reason the
cleanup is proving so costly is that Congress, the Reagan
administration and regulators kept insolvent thrifts alive
and growing instead of closing them.
   "Everyone is gun shy," says a White House official. "It
would be very very difficult because the first time you made
a mistake, you'd have such a bad reaction." Mr. Seidman says
he wouldn't be talking about this if he weren't resigning.
   But as their cost estimates balloon, administration
officials say they must think about ways to save taxpayers'
money. The government, they argue, hasn't had a good track
record as an asset manager. Senior Treasury officials say a
final decision will be made within the next two months on
whether to alter their strategy. A more modest option on the
table is to try to sell thrifts, where buyers can be found,
without tainting them first by turning them into wards of the
government. Also under consideration is creating something
akin to a mutual fund in which real-estate assets would be
privately managed -- with the government getting a share of
the profits if the assets appreciate in value.
   When the new Bush administration presented its plan in
February 1989, it told Congress a check for $50 billion at
first and $23 billion down the road would provide more than
enough money. "There is a slight reserve in there so that if
there are any unforeseen, unpleasant circumstances that show
up, we've got some room," Mr. Brady said at the time.
   Like its predecessors, the Bush administration
underestimated the problem. It assumed the government would
have to take over only about 500 savings-and-loans. Instead,
Mr. Brady now says, the total may be more like 1,000. Hence
the new, higher cost estimate of between $89 billion and $132
billion.
   The independent-minded Mr. Seidman, who endorsed the
original estimate, says the thrift industry was in worse
condition than the government knew. He cites City Federal
Savings Bank, New Jersey's largest savings association, as an
example. On regulators' internal rating scale of 1 (the best)
to 5 (the worst), he says City Federal was rated a "2" by
thrift regulators when FDIC examiners arrived in 1988 to
check the books under the new law. When they left, the thrift
was insolvent and was taken over. "Right there," Mr. Seidman
says, "there's a $2 billion loss" that wasn't included in the
original estimate.
   Private analysts say the City Federal example illustrates
how bad the Treasury's original estimate was. "It wouldn't
have been unforeseen if the regulators had been reading the
balance sheet," says Peter Treadway of Smith Barney, Harris
Upham &amp; Co. According to Sheshunoff Information Services
Inc., all of the "capital" on City Federal's books at the end
of 1988 was actually the sort of accounting gimmicks allowed
by regulators rather than the cold hard cash that can be used
to offset losses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Placer Dome Plans
   To Continue Pursuing
   Stikine; Shares Jump
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PDG T.SKZ ICRA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- Placer Dome Inc., a big
gold producer, said it plans to continue its previously
announced 229.5 million Canadian dollar (US$195.7 million)
offer to acquire Stikine Resources Ltd., half-owner of the
promising Eskay Creek gold project.
   The announcement, which followed last week's disclosure by
Placer Dome that it might withdraw its bid, sparked a sharp
jump in Stikine's share price on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Stikine shares closed yesterday at C$67.375, up C$3.875, on
volume of 186,009 shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, Placer Dome disclosed late yesterday that it
acquired 40,600 additional Stikine shares in open-market
purchases on the Toronto exchange, raising Placer Dome's
stake in the company to 5.2%, from 4.7%. A spokesman wouldn't
say whether Placer Dome intends to make further open-market
purchases before its bid expires Tuesday.
   The share price of Stikine, a Vancouver-based gold
exploration company, had slumped after Placer Dome said it
might cancel its C$67.50-a-share offer, in view of a lock-up
agreement under which Stikine's 42% owners agreed to tender
their stock to a rival bidder, Corona Corp., a Toronto-based
gold producer.
   "The market has recognized that the Placer Dome offer is
superior to the Corona proposal," Anthony Petrina, Placer
Dome's president and chief executive officer, said. By
threatening to withdraw its bid, "They {Placer Dome} were
able to highlight the difference between their offer and
Corona's offer," said Barry Allan, gold analyst with
Prudential-Bache Securities Canada Ltd., Toronto.
   Corona has offered to swap 6.5 Corona Class A shares, plus
two shares of a newly created unit, Corona Gold Corp., for
each Stikine share. Stikine holders also would be eligible
subsequently to receive a special Corona Gold stock dividend.
   Analysts have had difficulty valuing Corona's offer, which
is part of a broad corporate reorganization plan by Corona.
But Mr. Allan said the lock-up pact, which calls for the
exchange of 8.5 Corona Class A shares for each Stikine share,
under certain conditions, established a "down-side" benchmark
for Corona's offer.
   Based on the C$7.375 closing price of Corona Class A
shares yesterday on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the
"downside" value of Corona's offer is about C$62.69 a Stikine
share.
   Corona already owns an interest in Eskay Creek through
45%-owned Prime Resources Group Inc., a Vancouver-based gold
exploration company. Prime owns 50% of Eskay Creek and
operates the gold project, which is in northwestern British
Columbia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Shamir Blames U.S. for Arab Warlike Rhetoric,
   Urges Washington to End `Perception' of Strain
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   JERUSALEM -- Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir said
that "to a great extent" the U.S. bears the blame for the
increasingly warlike rhetoric emanating from Arab nations.
   Mr. Shamir predicted further deterioration in regional
stability unless the U.S. acted quickly to end "the
perception in the Arab world" that relations between Israel
and the U.S. are fraying. In Washington, however, Secretary
of State James Baker criticized the new Israeli government in
unusually harsh terms.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to Mr. Shamir, "When Arabs see that there is a
close link between the U.S. and Israel, the conclusion is
that they have to give up the idea of defeating Israel by
force." But "when this perception changes and hopes arise
that there could be a wedge driven between the U.S. and
Israel, dreams of defeating Israel militarily arise again.
This is the rule."
   To the extent that Arab states moderated toward Israel in
the 1980s, he said, it was "thanks to very close relations
between the U.S. and Israel" under President Reagan.
   Reacting to news reports about negative comments by Mr.
Shamir and others in the new cabinet on his peace plan,
Secretary of State Baker said: "If that's going to be the
approach, and that's going to be the attitude, there won't be
any dialogue and there won't be any peace."
   Mr. Baker, who was testifying before the House Foreign
Affairs Committee, provided the phone number of the White
House for Israeli listeners. "Everybody over there should
know that the telephone number is 1-202-456-1414," he said.
"When you're serious about peace, call us."
   In his first interview with a U.S. newspaper since the
installation of his new government Monday, Mr. Shamir seemed
to send a dual message: that he wants U.S. help to restart
the peace process but that he isn't willing to compromise his
hard-line views to get it.
   While Arab states excoriated the U.S. for support of
Israel at their summit in Baghdad last month, Israeli
officials make the opposite complaint. Aides say Mr. Shamir
hasn't had a phone conversation with Mr. Bush since March.
The U.S. president is said to be annoyed by Mr. Shamir's
intransigence last year when he continually added conditions
after launching a peace proposal calling for Palestinian
elections, stymying even preliminary talks on the idea.
   Israeli officials close to Mr. Shamir criticize Mr. Bush
for what one calls appeasement of such hard-line Arab leaders
as Iraq's Saddam Hussein. Others express astonishment that
Mr. Bush sat by while Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev said
in Washington that he might block the emigration of Soviet
Jews if the Israeli government settled them in occupied
territories.
   Mr. Shamir didn't attack Mr. Bush, saying that "it isn't
my job to evaluate or criticize" him. "We want to maintain
the best relations we can," he said, but added that there are
"some differences and misunderstandings" to be overcome.
   Arabs have reacted angrily to Mr. Shamir's new government.
The Palestine Liberation Organization branded it "the worst
in Israel's history." A Jordanian newspaper, Al Dustour,
predicted "war and instability," while an Egyptian daily, Al
Akbar, called it "a government controlled by hawks, shedders
of blood and the maddest extremists."
   The 74-year-old prime minister seemed relaxed and even
jovial after the tough, three-month power struggle that
followed the toppling of his national unity coalition in the
state's first successful no-confidence motion. The Labor
Party called the motion over Mr. Shamir's refusal to accept
Mr. Baker's plan for preliminary talks with Palestinians.
   Although Mr. Shamir said he's ready for such talks, his
conditions make the prospect seem distant. While saying that
"almost all the world's conflicts came to an end by
negotiations between former enemies," he said he can't
envision ever sitting down with the PLO, or even with Faisal
Husseini, the East Jerusalem Palestinian leader who meets
regularly with Israeli peace groups and promotes nonviolent
protest tactics.
   Mr. Husseini is "the same" as PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat,
Mr. Shamir said. "In some cases, he's more extreme than
Arafat. Although he can express other views, this is the real
content" of his beliefs, he maintained.
   Mr. Shamir said he will talk with Palestinians who "accept
certain common ground with us," such as the Camp David
accords, which call for five years of Palestinian autonomy
with talks on the final status of the occupied lands
beginning during that time. But he said he also wants the
U.S. to focus on bringing neighboring Arab states into
negotiations. "If the U.S. decided to help us to implement
this plan, then activity of the U.S. hasn't only to be
concentrated on talks with Palestinians: There has to be
effort also with Arab countries." But he stressed that this
was "a desire" and not a precondition for a Palestinian
dialogue.
   "I don't think there's a reason to be frustrated," he
said, referring to U.S. concern over the lack of progress so
far. "It needs time," he said, adding that there are
procedural difficulties to overcome. "For the parties
involved, {these procedural issues} are not foolish matters."
   Mr. Shamir refused to spell out his intentions regarding
further Jewish settlements in the West Bank and Gaza. The
U.S. has said such settlements are an obstacle to peace, and
the recent mass immigration of Soviet Jews has raised Arab
anxiety about their expansion.
   Ariel Sharon, the new housing minister, is an ardent
supporter of further settlements, as are many of the small
parties included in Mr. Shamir's coalition. "I'm not
committing myself to anything about creating new settlements
or not," Mr. Shamir said. "In my view, it isn't an important
matter. I don't think a few new settlements or new settlers
could have an impact" on peace negotiations.
   ---
   Walter S. Mossberg in Washington contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR FREST LATAM AFRIC EUROP SANYY JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKS (BNK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   GLOBAL LABOR THREATS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Violation of labor activists' rights was widespread in the
past year, with 250 people killed for engaging in routine
union activities, a trade-union group said.
   From March 1989 to March 1990, 13,000 workers were
detained and tens of thousands fired because of their union
activities, the Brussels-based International Confederation of
Free Trade Unions said.
   It said the most dangerous countries for labor activists
included China, Colombia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Peru, the
Philippines, Sudan and South Africa. The report welcomed
positive changes in Chile, Namibia, Nicaragua and Eastern
Europe, with the exception of Albania, but said the global
picture was alarming.
   "In many countries," the group said, "trade unionists
still live constantly under the threat of assassination by
hired gunmen, death squads, guerrillas and even police and
security forces."
                                                                                                       

   SANYO ELECTRIC IN HUNGARY
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Sanyo Electric Co. will begin creating a sales
network for audio-visual products in Hungary early next year,
a company spokesman said. He said the project will be used as
a model for future ventures in other Eastern European
countries. Sanyo Electric plans to begin activities in
Hungary this summer by using two demonstration vehicles, from
which products will be sold. The company also plans to open a
showroom in Budapest.
                                                                                                       

   EUROPE'S AIR DELAYS
                                                                                                       

   Crowded skies over Europe last year caused the worst
air-travel delays on record, said the Association of European
Airlines in a report. Almost 25% of all flights left more
than 15 minutes late. "In terms of punctuality, 1989 was the
bleakest year yet," the association said. The report said
there was little hope of major improvement in 1990. The
association's 21 member airlines carried almost 100 million
passengers in 1989, 6.9% more than in the previous year, and
expect the 100 million mark to be passed this year.
                                                                                                       

   BANKING IN CHINA
                                                                                                       

   A senior Chinese official ruled out the possibility of
allowing foreign banks to engage in local-currency
transactions, dashing hopes that China would further open its
banking sector to foreign competition. Zhu Rongji, the mayor
of Shanghai, told a group of bankers in Hong Kong that "we
won't consider allowing foreign banks to take deposits and
make loans in the local currency at this stage." Mr. Zhu is
on a visit to Hong Kong to seek support for the development
of a Shanghai suburb.
                                                                                                       

   SAFETY OF BRITISH BEEF
                                                                                                       

   Scientists disputed the British government's assertion
that British beef is safe to eat following new measures to
fight "mad cow" disease. One of the scientists, Richard
Lacey, a former government health adviser, said actions taken
to restore confidence in the beef industry were superficial.
"We don't know if {British beef} is safe or not," he told a
parliamentary committee on agriculture. Last week, following
European Community negotiations, France, West Germany and
Italy ended bans on British beef imports. The bans had been
brought on by the disease, bovine spongiform encephalopathy,
which affects cows' brains.
                                                                                                       

   SCANDAL IN TAIWAN
                                                                                                       

   Taiwan prosecutors said they are investigating reports
that military officers and relatives of a senior presidential
aide were involved in a bribery scandal to supply 2.5 million
pairs of black socks to the army. The chief prosecutor of the
Taipei District Court said police have detained four persons,
including sock supplier Hsiao Chunliang. Police said Mr.
Hsiao claimed he paid three million New Taiwan dollars (about
$110,000) in bribes last year to government and military
officials to win a NT$50 million contract.
                                                                                                       

   MAIL-ORDER BRIDE BAN
                                                                                                       

   Philippine President Corazon Aquino signed a law banning
mail-order brides for foreigners.
   Mrs. Aquino said young women from the countryside were
lured "by sweet talk and grandiose promises" and often found
themselves heartbroken in a foreign land. The new law outlaws
advertising for wives for foreigners and bans clubs or
associations designed to match foreign nationals with
Filipinas. It specifies six to eight years in prison for
offenders.
   "Operated by unscrupulous and heartless individuals, the
{mail-order bride} practice has not only cast shame on our
women in the international community, but has also exposed
thousands of impoverished Filipinas to further misery in the
hands of their foreign spouses," said Congresswoman Lorna
Verano Yap.
   The law doesn't bar marriage between foreigners and
Filipinas but is an attempt to curb the business in young and
often ill-educated Filipinas attracted by ads to a life
abroad, the congresswoman said.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Upperclassmen at Thailand's Khon Kaen University, fearful
of AIDS, abandoned a ritual of taking freshmen to brothels, a
Thai newspaper said. In place of the outing this spring was
an AIDS lecture. . . . Japanese Finance Minister Tyutaro
Hashimoto confirmed he suggested to the cabinet a review of
Japan's higher-education policies in response to Japan's
declining birthrate. But he denied reports that he believes
the trend for Japanese women to obtain higher education is
behind the birthrate decline. "I am afraid we will not be
able to discuss this matter seriously now," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Philips Joins Matsushita
   On Compatibility Device
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PHG SNE TCSFY MC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   EINDHOVEN, The Netherlands -- Dutch manufacturer N.V.
Philips Gloeilampenfabriek and Matsushita Electric Industrial
Co. of Japan have agreed to form a joint venture to develop
the standard for the "domestic digital bus," or D2B, a device
that would make compatible audio and visual parts
manufactured under different specifications.
   For the D2B system to work, one of its integral parts is a
computer chip that must be designed to certain standards,
according to a Philips spokesman. The spokesman noted that at
this time only Philips and Matsushita are actively involved
in trying to set that standard.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Philips will hold a 75% stake and Matsushita a 25% stake
in the venture, D2B Systems Co., which will be based in
London and be initially funded with #3 million ($5.1
million). The Philips spokesman said that the proportions of
the stakes in the joint venture don't necessarily reflect the
amount of work accomplished by either firm in developing the
D2B standard.
   Both Thomson S.A. of France and Sony Corp. of Japan,
neither of which are working on a D2B standard, have
recognized the need for a single standard and have agreed to
support the standard developed by Philips and Matsushita, the
Philips spokesman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Funds Draw
   Over $1 Billion
   From Individuals
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Individual investors poured more than $1 billion into
money-market mutual funds in the latest week, despite flat
yields and near-record highs for the stock market.
   The average seven-day compound yield eased to 7.95% from
7.96% in the week ended Tuesday, according to IBC/Donoghue's
Money Fund Report. Assets of 427 taxable funds tracked by the
Holliston, Mass.-based newsletter grew about $1.2 billion to
$377.1 billion, the highest level since early May.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The money came from individual investors, said Martha
Whittbrodt, editor of the newsletter. Assets of funds open
only to institutions dropped about $434 million, she said,
adding that the cash probably went into the rising stock
market. The Dow Jones Industrial Average reached a record
high of 2935.19 June 4.
   Money-fund yields have been at or just below 8% since
January. The latest slip reflects a general decline in
short-term interest rates.
   The average maturity of the funds' investments -- such
things as commercial paper (short-term corporate IOUs),
Treasury bills and certificates of deposit -- shortened by a
day, to 43 days. The average maturity has been 43 or 44 days
for nine weeks, indicating that a marked change in yields
isn't likely.
   Ms. Whittbrodt said yields probably will remain in the
same range until the Federal Reserve acts to change interest
rates -- something she doesn't expect soon.
   The average seven-day simple yield of the taxable funds
slipped to 7.65% from 7.67% in the latest week. The average
30day simple yield eased to 7.68% from 7.69%, and the average
30-day compound yield slid to 7.98% from 7.99%.
   Yields on tax-free money funds fell more sharply,
reflecting the rate decline in the municipal-bond market
since the end of April. The average seven-day compound yield,
for instance, dropped to 5.37% from 5.49%. That's equal to a
7.46% taxable yield for an investor in the 28% tax bracket
and 8.01% for someone paying 33% in taxes.
   Assets of the 220 tax-exempt funds tracked by Donoghue's
rose about $1 billion, to $77 billion. The average maturity
shortened by a day, to 38 days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   West German Admits Gear
   Was Sent Illegally to Libya
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Imhausen-Chemie G.m.b.H.'s
former head, Juergen Hippenstiel-Imhausen, admitted he
illegally delivered sophisticated equipment and technical
plans to Libya for a chemical plant in Rabta, a suspected
chemical-weapons site.
   Mr. Hippenstiel, charged with violations of West German
export laws and tax evasion, claimed full responsibility at
his trial yesterday in Mannheim District Court. Peter
Wechsung, a senior prosecutor, said Mr. Hippenstiel also
admitted to avoiding taxation on Imhausen's nearly 20 million
marks ($11.8 million) in profit from the transaction. The
money was invested in dummy companies in Hong Kong.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Libya maintains that the plant produces medicine. But the
prosecutor's 100-page indictment accuses the 49-year-old
defendant of helping to build a chemical-weapons plant in
Rabta. "He didn't confirm this, but he also didn't deny it,"
Mr. Wechsung said. Prosecutors hope to receive confirmation
of the plant's purpose later in the trial.
   Mr. Hippenstiel referred to the Rabta facility as a
"chemical plant." Mr. Wechsung said Mr. Hippenstiel explained
he was withholding further details for reasons of personal
safety.
   Mr. Hippenstiel's admission added a new chapter to the
alleged violation of West Germany's export controls by
exporters of technology useful in weapons production.
Embarrassed by the Imhausen scandal and pressured by the U.S.
to crack down on arms exporters, the Bonn government spent a
year crafting tougher export measures, which are expected to
be passed into law within a few weeks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Good Regional Play Points Up Bad Pulitzer Problem
   ----
   By Edwin Wilson
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Chicago -- Anyone who loves the theater is likely to be
enthusiastic about Timberlake Wertenbaker's "Our Country's
Good." Among other things, the play, being presented here by
the Remains Theater, is a ringing testament to the civilizing
effects of theater.
   Set in Australia in 1788 and 1789, "Our Country's Good" is
based on Thomas Keneally's novel "The Playmaker," which in
turn was based on actual events. In January 1788, after an
eight-month trip from England, a group of convicts in the
charge of British officers arrived in Australia. In Ms.
Wertenbaker's play the governor of this prison outpost, Capt.
Arthur Phillip (Paul Jones), decides that it would be a good
morale booster for the convicts to put on a play. The person
chosen to direct the production is Second Lt. Ralph Clark (Si
Osborne), a person devoted to the theater and sympathetic to
the prisoners. The play selected is George Farquhar's "The
Recruiting Officer," a great favorite in 18th-century
England.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Opposed to the scheme is Maj. Robbie Ross (Kevin Hurley),
the villain of the piece, who believes that prisoners, rather
than being coddled, should be lashed until their skin is raw,
even for unproven minor offenses. Lt. Clark sets about
casting and rehearsing his play and Maj. Ross attempts to set
up roadblocks every step of the way; the notion of the arts
as having spiritual or therapeutic value is anathema to Ross.
   Nor does Lt. Clark's cast of misfits make it easy for him
either: Several performers refuse to play unappealing
characters or take part in scenes that they feel show them in
a bad light. Arguments between director and actors become the
occasion for Ms. Wertenbaker to examine the conflict between
art and life and to show what a powerful symbolic force
theater can be.
   The love interest is provided by Lt. Clark and Mary
Brenham (Holly Fulger), the leading lady in his production.
Separated by many months and thousands of miles from his
wife, Clark is overwhelmed both by loneliness and the simple,
appealing charm of Mary. At one point, Maj. Ross condemns to
death one of Clark's actresses, and it looks as if the
production will not go on. It finally does, however, with
great success: The faith that Clark and his commanding
officer have shown in the undertaking is vindicated.
   Obviously a skillful dramatist, Ms. Wertenbaker has
written a deft, provocative, entertaining play that has been
given a first-rate production by the Remains company under
the direction of Amy Morton.
   ---
   "Our Country's Good" offers a prime example, which could
be multiplied many times over, of the seriously flawed
process by which the Pulitzer Prize in drama is selected each
year. In a recent article I pointed out the inequities and
inconsistencies in this process, the most egregious problem
being the eligibility of plays produced in regional theaters
across the country. In a letter of reply printed in this
paper May 8, Robert Christopher, administrator of the
Pulitzer Prize, ignored this aspect of the problem
altogether.
   The premise of the present procedure is that regional
theaters are first-class professional theaters, and that
their productions should be regarded as the equivalent of
anything on Broadway. As a result, it was decided in the
early 1980s that plays eligible for consideration by the
Pulitzer Board no longer should be confined to those produced
in New York City. This decision was made, however, without
giving any thought to the myriad problems that its
implementation would present.
   The first problem is deciding exactly how the many new
plays that open across the country will be given due
consideration. There are some 170 full-scale professional
theaters in the U.S. operating under Actors Equity
Association contracts. These theaters produce an average of
at least one new play per season -- realistically it is
probably more than that. Let us say conservatively that 200
new plays a year are produced in theaters that stretch from
Portland, Maine, to San Diego, Calif., from Sarasota, Fla.,
to Seattle, Wash. How can any three-person jury even begin to
cover this range of plays?
   Of the three jurors this past year, two live in New York
and one in Boston. How likely are critics in these cities to
see plays in Minneapolis, Milwaukee or Houston? When jurors
are from the West Coast, what are the chances of their seeing
plays in Hartford or Washington, D.C.? "Our Country's Good"
was presented at the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles last
fall. How many of this year's jurors saw that production, and
how many of next year's jurors will see the current Remains
production before it closes Sunday?
   There are ways to address this problem, but so far the
Pulitzer officials have stubbornly refused even to
acknowledge that a problem exists. One possibility is to have
a group of critics in various parts of the country nominate
plays for the three jurors to consider. This is the method
adopted by the American Theater Critics Association in
arriving at its choice of an outstanding play to be included
in the annual "Best Plays" volume edited by Otis Guernsey.
   The chaos surrounding the assessing of regional theater
productions is compounded by the question of the year in
which a play is eligible for consideration. In 1987 the
Pulitzer Prize for drama was awarded to August Wilson's
"Fences"; this year it went to Mr. Wilson's "The Piano
Lesson." There is no question that these two plays are worthy
recipients of the award. When "Fences" won, however, it had
been produced the previous year in fully mounted,
professional productions and had been given the
aforementioned American Theater Critics award in 1986. Why
was it not awarded the Pulitzer Prize that same year when, in
fact, no Pulitzer award for best play was given; and why was
it considered eligible the next year?
   Mr. Wilson's "The Piano Lesson" which won this year,
originally was produced 2 1/2 years ago and given six
separate productions before arriving on Broadway. Mr.
Christopher in his letter to the Journal stated that the
chairman of this year's jury felt the play is "significantly
different" from its previous incarnations. There is little
basis for such an argument: The play now on Broadway has
undergone fine-tuning and has a revised ending, but
essentially it is the identical play presented in 1987: the
same theme, the same characters, the same sequence of events.
Furthermore, in which of its six previous productions did
this crucial transformation take place?
   Besides, a difference of opinion about whether or not it
is a new play is not the point anyway. A determination of
this sort should not be the whim of one critic or another;
there should be objective criteria to determine such matters,
and those criteria should be clearly stated.
   In the same manner, there should be no ambiguity about the
year in which a play is eligible for consideration. The
alternatives are clear and the logic unassailable: If
regional theater productions are tryouts, then plays produced
there should not be eligible for consideration; if they are
major productions, equivalent to Broadway, then plays
produced there should be eligible when they first appear and
not two or three years later.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Rep. Gerry Studds (D., Mass.), on being attacked by two
youths in Washington, D.C., as quoted in the June 12 Boston
Herald:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   I think if they had known I was a member of Congress, I
could have understood it.
   ---
   John Sedgwick, writing in the June issue of Wigwag
magazine on Angell Memorial Hospital, an animal hospital in
Boston:
                                                                                                       

   While Angell's expenses are certainly high, they are
nothing like those of human hospitals. By the standards of
human medicine, its prices read like misprints: a day in its
I.C.U., $150; a total hip replacement, $1,200; heart surgery,
$800. Human hospitals run on the assumption that human life
is of infinite value, and charge accordingly. Veterinary
hospitals are forced to make a more conservative appraisal.
Unlike human hospitals, animal hospitals rarely receive what
are termed "third-party payments," the whatever-it-costs
insurance-company payouts that have contributed to the wild
escalation in the price of human medical care. (Currently
only one national insurance company, the Animal Health
Insurance Agency, offers any sort of pet medical insurance. A
catastrophic coverage plan costs $40 a year, has a $250
deductible, and pays up to $2,500 an incident. A
comprehensive plan, for $97.50 a year, has a $50 deductible,
and pays a maximum of $1,000 per injury or illness. Among
Angell's clients, there are few takers; pet owners would
rather take their chances.) At Angell, nearly all payments
are made directly out of the owner's pocket, by cash, check,
MasterCard, Visa, or American Express. So the owner actually
puts a price on his pet, and it's usually not that high.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Panel Address
   By Durenberger
   Closes Hearings
   ----
   By Jill Abramson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- An emotional plea for compassion and
clemency by Sen. David Durenberger (R., Minn.) brought the
ethics committee hearings in his case to an abrupt close
after only two days.
   Speaking to two distinct audiences -- the people of
Minnesota and the six members of the ethics panel -- Sen.
Durenberger repeatedly apologized for mistakes, both "actions
and inactions," in his financial dealings. But he stressed
that he had acted "in good faith," relying on the advice of
outside lawyers, and that he had no intent to break Senate
rules. He urged the panel to reject the harsh punishment of
denunciation -- the equivalent of censure -- recommended
Tuesday by the committee's special counsel, Robert Bennett.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "My life and reputation are at stake," Mr. Durenberger
told the ethics committee, of which he was once a member.
   During an hour-long address, the senator recounted the
personal and financial problems that led him into a
questionable book promotion deal and real-estate transaction.
He told of his first wife's death of cancer at age 31 and the
subsequent problems he had raising four young sons. He also
emphasized the financial burdens of maintaining two
households, in Minnesota and Washington.
   "During that costly period of family life that I was
ill-prepared for, I had a real financial squeeze," Mr.
Durenberger explained.
   In a move that seemed to surprise the ethics panel, Sen.
Durenberger decided not to call any witnesses or offer
further testimony in his defense. Mr. Durenberger and his
attorney said some sanction is appropriate in his case but
something less severe than denunciation. They urged the
committee to move quickly to the punishment phase of the
proceedings.
   Accepting the senator's request, the committee
short-circuited the hearings, which were originally scheduled
to last two weeks. "There is not a great deal of dispute
about the facts" in the case, observed Sen. Warren Rudman
(R., N.H.), the vice chairman of the panel, "but about what
those facts mean."
   Mr. Bennett must now prepare a report summarizing the
evidence in the case before the committee can deliberate and
vote on a recommended punishment. Mr. Bennett said he hoped
to complete the report in two weeks. If the panel recommends
that Sen. Durenberger be denounced, a majority of the full
Senate would have to approve the sanction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Smog-Cutting Regulations
   Are Announced by EPA
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Environmental Protection Agency issued
rules to cut smog-forming emissions from chemical plants and
hazardous-waste facilities. The regulations will cost
industry more than $54 million a year.
   The agency has been trying since 1983 to impose certain
rules on synthetic organic chemical plants, but was delayed
during the Reagan administration by opposition from budget
officials.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The regulations are among a series required by clean-air
and hazardous-waste laws to reduce volatile organic
chemicals, which are emitted by both industry and vehicles
and are blamed for producing smog. Smog causes health
problems and reduces visibility.
   The proposals will require new chemical plants to cut
pollution from vents either by using new combustion equipment
or through manufacturing changes that recover and recycle
chemicals before they are vented. Certain regulations that
originally were opposed in 1983 will apply to plants built or
modified since then. The EPA estimates the changes will cost
industry $35.8 million in capital costs with annual operating
costs of $21.6 million.
   The regulations also mark the first time the government is
regulating air pollution from hazardous-waste sites. Some
1,400 facilities that handle hazardous wastes will be
required within two years to control leaks from pumps and
valves, and in many cases to install pollution-control
equipment on vents. The agency put the cost to the industry
at $33 million to $46 million a year.
   Agency officials said the rules shouldn't be affected by
new clean-air legislation now before Congress.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology and Health:
   Men Curbing Cholesterol Level Can Cut
   Risk of Cardiac Death, Study Indicates
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   New health research strengthens the argument that men who
control cholesterol levels in their blood can sharply reduce
their risk of death from heart disease, the nation's biggest
killer.
   The reduced risk was especially significant among men
participating in a recent study who had already had heart
attacks or other evidence of heart disease. Since half of the
500,000 U.S. residents who die from heart attacks each year
have a prior history of heart disease, effective reduction of
cholesterol among such people could sharply reduce
heart-disease deaths, the researchers said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Although the importance of cholesterol has been pretty
well established," says Basil M. Rifkind, chief of Lipid
Metabolism and Atherogenisis at the National Heart, Lung, and
Blood Institute, "there's always been some doubt about its
impact among those who have already had a heart attack."
   In a study published in today's New England Journal of
Medicine, scientists found that men with a history of heart
disease with cholesterol levels above 240 milligrams per
deciliter of blood were nearly 3 1/2 times more likely to die
from heart disease than those with heart disease and
cholesterol levels under 200.
   By applying the study's results, the findings suggest that
if you're a male between 40 and 69 years old with cholesterol
below 200 and evidence of heart disease, your chance of dying
of heart disease in the next 10 years is about 4%. But if you
have heart disease, and your cholesterol is above 240, your
risk of death of the disease in 10 years soars to 20%.
   While other factors, including damage caused by a heart
attack, also contribute to risk of death, Dr. Rifkind says,
the difference in risk between those with high and desirable
cholesterol levels shows that the "contribution of
cholesterol to heart-attack risk was very substantial."
   Until recently, heart-attack patients with high
cholesterol weren't being treated for cholesterol, says Dr.
Rifkind, who is project officer for the study that is being
conducted by dozens of investigators in academic centers
around the world. "That's beginning to change, but there are
probably a lot of people out there that aren't being
appropriately treated."
   In this study, researchers followed 2,541 white men for 10
years after taking cholesterol readings and medical histories
in the early 1970s. Beginning in 1977, researchers tried to
check on each participant annually to determine whether they
were still living, and, if they had died, whether the cause
was related to heart disease.
   There was no attempt to determine whether the subjects
changed living habits or otherwise reduced their risk of
heart disease during the 10-year period. The cholesterol
levels were taken only at the beginning of the study.
   Among the subjects of the study, 17% had some evidence of
heart disease when the study began. As expected, prevalence
of heart disease among the subjects increased with age.
   Another 76%, or 1,940 people, didn't have a history of
heart problems. Among those subjects, cholesterol levels
above 240 indicated a 5% chance of dying of heart disease
within 10 years, while the risk fell to under 2% for those
with levels below 200. The remaining 7% of subjects were
unclassified as to heart disease. The researchers also found
similar trends when cholesterol counts were separated into
high density lipoprotein, or HDL, the so-called good
cholesterol, and its low density, or LDL counterpart. For
instance a high LDL cholesterol level was associated with a
17% risk of death in 10 years among men with heart disease,
while men with low HDL faced a 16% risk of death.
   The group being studied was culled from a broader group of
nearly 9,000 men and women. Since heart disease generally
affects women later in life than men, no statistically sound
conclusions have yet been reached regarding women and
cholesterol levels in this ongoing study, Dr. Rifkind says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Democrats Don Kid Gloves in S&amp;L Mess
   To Avoid Scrutiny of Their Own Hands
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Democratic Party is suffering a severe
case of unfulfilled expectations over the savings-and-loan
debacle.
   Many Democrats believe they should be bashing President
Bush and the Republicans for causing and mishandling the
nation's biggest financial scandal. "It's the biggest issue I
can see for us against Bush," says Rep. Dan Glickman (D.,
Kan.).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The issue resonates with the voters. "I have not done a
town meeting where this hasn't been a major focus of
attention," says Rep. Thomas Downey (D., N.Y.). "I am
astonished by the level of interest, but more horrified by
the level of anger. This is a political issue of the very
first magnitude and it's going to bite somebody hard."
   But, so far, the Democrats have remained mostly passive in
what seems to be a ready-made issue for them. When Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady went before the Senate Banking
Committee recently to concede that his agency had grossly
underestimated the cost of the thrift-rescue plan, Bush
administration aides were astounded -- and relieved -- to
find questioning by the panel's Democrats so tame.
   The reason? In the public mind, the Democrats are at least
as culpable in the S&amp;L mess as the Republicans. Four of the
"Keating Five" senators under investigation for intervening
on behalf of S&amp;L kingpin Charles Keating are Democrats,
including the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee,
Donald Riegel of Michigan. And former House Speaker James
Wright and former House Banking Committee Chairman Ferdinand
St Germain both were ruined politically after allegations of
close ties with thrift executives.
   "I don't believe that either party is totally without sin
on the issue," says Rep. Thomas Carper (D., Del.).
   As a result, Republicans doubt the $100 billion-plus
crisis will rub off on them exclusively. "A thumbnail sketch
of the history of the S&amp;L crisis has a veritable rogues'
gallery of Democratic leaders in it," says John Buckley, a
Republican strategist.
   Instead, incumbents of either stripe may well be victims
of the S&amp;L fallout. "It is best as an outsider-vs.-insider
issue, as opposed to a Democrat-vs.-Republican issue," says
Harrison Hickman, a Democratic consultant.
   "It's bad for everybody," agrees Sen. John Breaux (D.,
La.), chairman of the Senate Democrats' campaign committee.
"It's bad for incumbents."
   "It's going to be a very salient issue in the fall,"
predicts Roger Stone, a Republican consultant. "Incumbents
beware]"
   In particular, the S&amp;L bailout is expected to play a role
in the re-election contests this year of Democratic Rep.
Frank Annunzio of Illinois, a senior member of the House
Banking Committee, and of GOP Rep. Charles Pashayan of
California, who accepted and then later returned a campaign
contribution from a group run by Mr. Keating.
   Still, a growing number of Democrats believe their party
should try to use the thrift crisis against the Republicans.
Sen. Bill Bradley of New Jersey, Sen. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska
and Gov. Mario Cuomo of New York make criticism of the S&amp;L
bailout part of their stump speeches. Last week at New York
State's Democratic Party convention in Albany, Gov. Cuomo
excoriated the Republicans for allowing thrift executives to
"do what they want to do." The result, he said, was that
"they stole everything in sight. They fouled up everything in
sight and now you're paying for it."
   Other Democrats are taking this same line of attack. The
S&amp;L situation "is going to be one of the most important
issues of the campaign," says Rep. Vic Fazio (D., Calif.).
"If there's a political price to be paid, and there will be,"
he adds, "I don't think those bills are going to come due for
Democrats."
   There is some reason for Democrats to be sanguine that
they can direct voter anger at the GOP. Many of them say that
the thrift industry's basic problems stem from the Reagan
administration's emphasis on deregulation and its
unwillingness to budget an adequate number of government
auditors. In addition, they note that Mr. Bush was at the
center of the issue; as vice president he headed Mr. Reagan's
task force on deregulation.
   What's more, the most recent setbacks in the bailout --
especially its ever-escalating cost -- are easily laid at the
feet of the Bush administration, Democrats say.
"Responsibility for what happened in the past is somewhat
shared," says Rep. Barney Frank (D., Mass.). "But since {last
year's bailout} bill passed they have done a very poor job of
administering it. . . . It's been a real screw-up."
   Few believe the S&amp;L problem is much better now than when
the president won the legislation he sought last year to
clean up the mess. And Democrats have begun to target their
barbs at what they see as shortcomings of that enterprise.
These include the Justice Department's slowness in
prosecuting thrift executives and the Treasury's long-delayed
sale of confiscated assets.
   Some congressional Democrats warn that the Bush
administration's request for more bailout money will be
rejected unless the deposit-insurance system is overhauled in
a populist way, including placing lower limits on the amount
of deposits that are federally insured. This would serve to
put a Democratic stamp on the solution. What's more,
Democratic-led efforts are under way in both the Senate and
the House to force the administration to spend more than it
wants to prosecute savings-and-loan criminals.
   "This is worse than Watergate," asserts Rep. Annunzio of
the House Banking Committee. His subcommittee on financial
institutions, which already has grilled the president's son
Neil about his directorship of a failed Colorado thrift, has
scheduled other hearings for later this year.
   But it isn't clear that the Democrats can succeed in
fulfilling their political aspirations with the issue. "The
problem we have as Democrats," concludes Rep. Bruce Vento
(D., Minn.), "is that a few Democrats stuck their noses in
where they didn't belong."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Is Lower but Rises Against Yen,
   Which Falls Due to Treasury Remark
   ----
   By John Bader
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA EUROP FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar fell against the mark, sterling and
Swiss franc, as those currencies were strengthened by a
number of factors.
   The mark benefited from an apparent softening of the
Soviet Union's previous opposition to a united Germany's
membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, in
addition to news that the Soviet Union is easing its economic
blockade of Lithuania.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Continued speculation on the timing of Britain's full
entry into the European Monetary System drove the pound
through important resistance points, helping it close above
$1.7100. The Financial Times had reported Tuesday that the
government is preparing to take the pound into the EMS
exchange rate structure as early as September or October,
provided sterling is strong at that time.
   The pound was assisted by a Bank of England announcement
yesterday that it still wants to see base interest rates
remain at the current 15%. Relatively high interest rates
also were the reason for the Swiss franc's improvement
against the dollar, market participants said.
   Against the yen, however, the dollar bucked the day's
downward trend, rising slightly on a comment by U.S. Treasury
Undersecretary David Mulford that the dollar's current level
against the yen matches the one agreed upon by G-7 officials
at their meeting in May. (The Group of Seven consists of the
U.S., United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, West Germany, France and
Italy.)
   Late in New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.6865
marks, down from 1.6965 marks late Tuesday. The U.S. currency
also was changing hands at 154.75 yen, up from 154.55 yen.
Sterling was at $1.7115, up from $1.7035.
   In Tokyo Thursday, the dollar was trading at 154.05 yen
soon after opening at 153.90 yen; it closed Wednesday in
Tokyo at 154.55 yen. Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading
at about 1.6845 marks, down from Wednesday's Tokyo close of
1.6972 marks.
   Traders said the release earlier on Wednesday of figures
showing weak U.S. retail sales for May didn't have a lasting
impact on the dollar because the market was focused on
inflation numbers for May, scheduled for release today and
tomorrow. Retail sales fell 0.7% last month.
   Participants said the market remains sensitive to
political developments in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe
as the July 2 date of German economic and social unification
approaches.
   That sensitivity was demonstrated by the strength the West
German currency derived from reports that Soviet President
Mikhail Gorbachev has eased his position on the military
status of a unified Germany.
   That encouraged the market that the issue of German NATO
membership might not be as difficult to solve as had been
earlier supposed. The U.S. has steadfastly maintained that
one Germany will be a member of NATO, and the prospect of
Soviet opposition had caused nervousness that the issue could
hinder the process of unification.
   The apparent lessening of tensions between the Soviet
Union and Lithuania also aided the West German currency, said
Chris Manno, chief dealer at Midland Bank PLC in New York.
The Soviet government agreed to restore the supply of some
fuel and raw materials to Lithuania, which has been the
subject of a Soviet economic blockade aimed at forcing the
republic to rescind its declaration of independence. In
addition to rising against the dollar, the mark also recorded
noteworthy gains against the yen, rising to 91.76 yen from
91.10 yen Tuesday in New York.
   High interest rates powered the Swiss franc's extension of
gains against the dollar. The market interpreted Tuesday's
release of figures showing a 0.5% increase in Switzerland's
May cost-of-living index as a sign that Swiss monetary
authorities won't have room to ease rates significantly over
the short term. The increase in the index from April, when it
rose 0.2%, represented a 5.1% increase from the year-earlier
level.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $352 an ounce, down $3.70. This was the
lowest close since July 30, 1986. Estimated volume was a
moderate 3.7 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Thursday, gold was quoted at $350.20 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Varity to Ask Holders
   To Approve Paring
   Its Preferred Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VAT
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Varity Corp. took the first step toward
improving the trading value of its common shares, announcing
that it will seek shareholder approval to reduce the number
of preferred shares outstanding.
   The industrial products concern said it may offer holders
of preferred shares cash or common shares in return for their
stakes in the company, reducing the number of preferred
shares outstanding and its annual dividend obligations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the year ended Jan. 31, 1990, Varity said it paid
dividends totaling about $18.7 million to holders of the 11.8
million Class 1 and two million Class 2 preferred shares.
   The company has said often that it regards the existence
of the preferred shares, and the substantial dividend
payments, as "a major impediment" to further improvement in
the trading value of its common shares as well as its
earnings.
   For fiscal 1990, Varity reported net income of $92.1
million, or 35 cents a share, on revenue of $2.38 billion. In
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday,
Varity's common closed at $3, off 12.5 cents, on volume of
451,100 shares.
   Varity said its board hasn't decided whether or when such
proposals would be made, or what form they would take.
Currently, the company has about 249 million common shares
outstanding.
   It said shareholders will vote on the amendments at the
annual meeting July 30. The amendments must be approved by
two-thirds of the votes cast by holders of common shares,
Class 1 shares and Class 2 shares, each voting separately as
a class or series.
   Jack R. Nowling, a Varity spokesman, said the company is
still considering "a number of measures" to increase value
for common shareholders, apart from the conversion of the
preferred shares.
   He said those measures could include a common share
buy-back, making use of the $275.5 million of cash the
company had as of April 30. But he added that any
announcements regarding moves to improve value for common
shareholders aren't likely to be made until the annual
meeting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Glaxo Holdings
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GLX WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GLAXO HOLDINGS PLC (London) -- Arthur M Pappas, 42 years
old, was appointed an executive director of this
pharmaceutical maker. He previously was president and chief
executive of Glaxo (Latin America Inc.) and chairman and
managing director of Glaxo Far East (Pte. Ltd.)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Exchanges Fight
   Dual-Trading Ban
   In Two Reports
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Eight of the country's major futures exchanges
today will begin a counterattack against the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission's moves to restrict dual trading.
   The exchanges, trying to pressure the federal regulator
into not curbing the practice, will argue in two reports that
a CFTC study of dual trading doesn't merit curbing it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "All of the conclusions of the CFTC study are either
wrong, misleading or unsupported by the empirical results,"
one of the exchange reports concludes. The exchanges intend
to deliver the reports to CFTC Chairman Wendy Gramm today.
   Dual trading, currently permitted by the exchanges, allows
futures traders to simultaneously trade for customers and for
their own accounts. Critics say the practice encourages
traders to cheat customers by reserving the most profitable
trades for themselves.
   In January, the CFTC endorsed a limited test ban on dual
trading in some of the exchanges' most heavily traded futures
contracts. A spokesman for the CFTC said the commission will
mull the exchanges' arguments before making a final decision
on the dual-trading restrictions.
   "It's not beyond the realm of reality that the commission
will say, `We were wrong. Let's do some more study or modify
our stance,'" said a CFTC spokesman. "But the commission also
may stand by its conclusions."
   Any CFTC decision on dual-trading restrictions could be
superseded by pending legislation in Congress.
   The House has approved a provision that would prohibit
dual trading in markets with daily average volume of 7,000
contracts or more. A Senate bill, which is awaiting a vote,
would force the CFTC to suspend dual trading if an exchange
can't show that its oversight system can detect dual-trading
abuses.
   The CFTC's proposed dual-trading restrictions are widely
regarded as a response to last year's Federal Bureau of
Investigation "sting" operation at the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange and Chicago Board of Trade.
   The probe uncovered widespread trading abuses at the
exchanges. Since then, 48 indictments have been brought
against traders, and trials have begun in some cases. Other
traders have pleaded guilty.
   The CFTC has proposed curbing dual trading according to
the sizes of the futures exchanges over a 12-month "phase-in"
period.
   During the period, the CBOT and the Chicago Merc, the
nation's largest futures exchanges, would be required to
restrict the practice in one of their three most popular
agricultural contracts and one of their two largest financial
contracts.
   Medium-sized exchanges, such as the New York Mercantile
Exchange and the Mid-America Commodity Exchange, would have
to curb dual trading in one of their two largest commodity
contracts. Small exchanges, such as the Kansas City Board of
Trade in Missouri, would be exempt during the period.
   The exchanges would decide which contracts would be
restricted.
   Over the 12 months, the CFTC would analyze trading
patterns and then decide whether to impose permanent
dual-trading restrictions.
   The planned restrictions are based on a CFTC staff
analysis released in November. The study concluded that dual
trading offers no particular financial benefits, while
encouraging traders to break exchange rules.
   In the exchanges' reports, professors from Duke University
and the University of California at Berkeley argue that the
CFTC's conclusions are based on faulty statistical analysis.
   "It's crazy on the basis of that analysis to go out and
ban something that's been in existence for more than a
decade," said Thomas Smith, a business school professor who
co-wrote one of the reports.
   Prof. Smith wouldn't say how much he and his research
partner, Prof. Robert Whaley of Duke, were paid by the
exchanges to do their study. The second study was written by
Berkeley professors Raymond L. Hartman and Gordon Rausser.
   Because the reports weren't due to be released until
today, exchange executives wouldn't comment on them publicly.
   "We're hoping it will make the CFTC re-evaluate its
proposed curbs on dual trading," said an official at one
Chicago exchange, who asked not to be identified. "It's
unclear how much impact these types of things have, except
you do have eight of the nine largest futures exchanges in
the country all taking a swing at them at the same time."
   In addition to the CBOT and the Merc, the exchanges that
sponsored the reports were the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa
Exchange in New York; the Kansas City Board of Trade; the
Minneapolis Grain Exchange; the New York Cotton Exchange; the
New York Futures Exchange; and the Commodity Exchange of New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Retailing:
   Rodeo Drive Mini-Mall Is Looking Smart
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TIF J.SOG
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- With mini-malls popping up across
America, it was inevitable one would sprout on the toniest
corner in the nation.
   But Two Rodeo Drive, now being completed at Rodeo Drive
and Wilshire Boulevard, is about as close to those
traditional courtyard malls as celebrity-hangout Spago is to
a pizza joint. No T-shirt stores or card shops here. When
opened this September, the $200 million complex will be a
veritable one-stop-shop for the Rolls-Royce set: Tiffany.
Cartier. Christian Dior.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The project consists of a half dozen stores right on Rodeo
Drive, plus a curved, shop-lined cobblestone street that
slopes up and away from Rodeo. Developer Douglas Stitzel
calls the project a "shopping district" -- not a mall -- and
boldly compares it to famous boulevards of conspicuous
consumption, such as Rome's Via Condotti.
   With its prime location and expensive materials, Two Rodeo
is one of the costliest retail projects ever built. The price
tag is more than $1,500 per square foot of retail space, four
times that of the fanciest shopping centers. Most observers
believe the mall has a decent chance of succeeding, but only
because of clever planning, hefty cash outlays, political
maneuvering and a fair share of compromises.
   Rents will be among the highest on Rodeo Drive: $75 to
$225 a square foot annually. But to lure top-name tenants,
Mr. Stitzel has had to give lump-sum concessions of up to
$200 a square foot, when many nearby landlords are offering
concessions of $35 a foot or less. The concessions take the
form of "tenant improvement allowances," which must be used
for store improvements and decorating. For some larger stores
at Two Rodeo, the payments could total $1 million.
   To win city approvals, Mr. Stitzel had to design the mall
so it made economic sense but didn't exceed the city's strict
height limits or offend the sensibilities of Beverly Hills'
planners. That the project ever got built is something of a
surprise, since the city had rejected several other
developers with plans for the former parking lot.
   It all seems to be paying off for Mr. Stitzel now. Last
month, units of Kowa Real Estate Investment Co., a Japanese
office developer, and Sogo Co., a Japanese department store
chain, agreed to buy up to a 90% stake in Two Rodeo for "well
in excess" of $200 million. Mr. Stitzel will retain the
minority interest.
   Shopper traffic remains the big if. To try to avoid the
same fate as Rodeo Drive's only other mall, Rodeo Collection,
which has suffered from high tenant turnover, Mr. Stitzel is
using some fancy architectural devices to disguise Two
Rodeo's mall-like qualities. The project isn't covered, and
it doesn't have the monolithic facades common to most malls.
Rather, each shop is designed to look like its own building,
as if the whole area had grown store by store over time.
   The result is a melding of limestone, terra cotta and
brick facades with arches and colonnades, topped by
copper-colored roofs. The effect is like an elaborate movie
set of a late 19th-century European street scene -- fitting
for Rodeo Drive, which rivals Disneyland for tourist traffic
in Southern California.
   To draw customers into the mall, Mr. Stitzel built the
cobblestone pedestrian path through the center, intersecting
Rodeo Drive at each end of the project. Called Via Rodeo, the
path is an engineering solution to an economic problem: Since
ground floor shops get more business and rent for 10 times as
much as upper-level locations, Mr. Stitzel needed to create
the largest number of ground floor storefronts possible on
this small parcel.
   Via Rodeo slopes upward toward Wilshire Boulevard,
bringing the ground up to what is actually a second-floor
level, behind the stores that front Rodeo Drive. This
configuration creates 90,000 square feet of "ground floor"
selling space, enough for each store, on a site that's only
53,000 square feet. The remaining selling space in the
126,000-square-foot project is allocated for upper- or
lower-levels in the individual stores.
   Cobblestone notwithstanding, tenants along Via Rodeo could
have a tough time attracting shoppers, analysts caution. "The
question is whether you can get people to walk down that
inside street," says Stanley McElroy, an associate vice
president of Coldwell Banker Commercial Real Estate. "What's
really going to be important is how it's tenanted, who's at
the end of that street."
   Tiffany &amp; Co. has the prime space in the project,
19,000-square feet right at the corner of Rodeo and Wilshire.
The store had been looking to expand from its current
location in the Regent Beverly Wilshire Hotel directly across
the street. Mr. Stitzel's longtime friend, Regent
International Chairman Robert Burns, agreed to let him court
Tiffany, even though the lease at the hotel didn't expire
until 1994.
   Mr. Stitzel won Tiffany in part because of the concessions
made, such as footing the bill to create a facade that
resembles the flagship on Fifth Avenue. Mr. Stitzel even
managed to get a quick plug for Tiffany's new location and
his project in the hit movie "Pretty Woman."
   Other retailers have since agreed to open in Two Rodeo,
including Cole-Haan Footwear, Charles Jourdan, and Gianfranco
Ferre. Stringfellow's, the London restaurant and nightclub,
is also joining in. Mr. Stitzel says the project is now about
70% rented, a respectable level, with leases ranging from 10
to 15 years.
   "The retail market is very soft right now. But on Rodeo
Drive it's very tough to find a location, so this project
should move forward well," says Tam Antebi, retail leasing
specialist with Grubb &amp; Ellis Co. in Los Angeles.
   More than location, the tenant improvement allowances Mr.
Stitzel gave are what lured the retailers, some people say.
"He bought them," says Gilbert Dembo, president of a Beverly
Hills commercial real estate business. "If somebody's
offering you a million dollars, you'll move. A million
dollars will buy you a lot of wallpaper."
   Mr. Stitzel, a relatively unknown San Francisco developer,
was up against some heavyweights who wanted to build at the
exclusive address, which was owned by American Savings &amp; Loan
Association. Bidders included investor Marvin Davis,
developer Donald Trump, former thrift executive Thomas
Spiegel, and Four Seasons Hotel Corp. Mr. Stitzel finally
bought the land for $47.6 million in 1987, after the first
winning bidder, a Columbia Savings &amp; Loan-backed group,
couldn't get city approval for its proposed office building.
   Once Mr. Stitzel owned the property, he made certain Two
Rodeo fit the city's height limits so he wouldn't need to ask
for a variance. He agreed to install granite sidewalks and
planters, in line with a city beautification plan. When he
wanted a new crosswalk between Two Rodeo and the Regent
Beverly Wilshire, he and the hotel agreed to pay for it
themselves. To get city approval for a larger-than-allowed
underground lot, Mr. Stitzel will provide two hours free
valet parking for people shopping anywhere on Rodeo. It's not
totally altruistic: Once parked, visitors emerge smack-dab in
the middle of Two Rodeo.
   The brand-spanking-newness of Mr. Stitzel's project
offends some blue bloods on the swanky strip. "I've heard a
couple people look at it and go, `Um, who knows?'" says Joan
Luther, a spokeswoman for Rodeo's merchants association. Yet
most merchants welcome the project, believing it will bring
them spillover business. "It's going to be especially good
for Fred Hayman," says Mr. Hayman himself, whose boutique is
located across Rodeo from the project. "People don't just go
to one development. They come to stroll Rodeo Drive."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Some Creditors
   Of Trump Balk
   At Revamp Plan
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   FFB MHC CCI CMB BT MIDL X.TMP
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   A number of Donald Trump's 54 creditors are balking at
joining four New York banks' plan to restructure the Trump
empire, according to banking and real estate executives
familiar with the negotiations.
   One of the bankers involved in the discussions said the
chances that the New Jersey, European and Asian creditors
would agree to the complex plan are "only about 50-50."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Should the creditors not agree by tomorrow, when Mr. Trump
has a scheduled payment on his Trump's Castle casino bonds,
the restructuring of $2 billion of bank debt could be
imperiled. Participants in the negotiations said it was still
possible Mr. Trump could get an extension to pay bondholders.
   Some of the smaller creditors believe that their loans are
better secured than those of some of the major creditors.
Under the terms of the proposal, the creditors would be paid
off in proportion to the amount they've lent, not in relation
to how much collateral is behind their loans.
   One banker described yesterday's negotiations as
"extremely fluid," with some parties reversing their
positions many times during the discussions.
   Until late in the day it appeared that New Jersey banks,
with as much as $140 million in loans to Mr. Trump, wouldn't
sign off on the agreement. However, by the end of the day,
the banks, which include First Fidelity Bancorp and Midlantic
Banks Inc., were said to be tentatively supportive of the
plan.
   First Fidelity is said to have lent Mr. Trump at least $75
million toward his purchase of the Taj Mahal casino in
Atlantic City. Midlantic has lent Mr. Trump at least $65
million for capital improvements and to finance the purchase
of Trump's Castle bonds in the open market.
   Under the agreement worked out between Mr. Trump and his
four major New York creditors, Mr. Trump would get $60
million in cash and a suspension in his interest payments to
the banks in exchange for forfeiting equity in many of his
properties.
   The plan came about after the high-profile real estate and
casino mogul acknowledged to his bankers that his cash flow
in the coming year wouldn't likely be enough to pay his
debts.
   Under the proposal, if Mr. Trump sells a casino, after the
bondholders are paid off the banks would share half the
proceeds of the first $100 million of the sale with Mr.
Trump, according to an individual who has seen the term
sheet. Such a split could cut into the New Jersey banks'
share of the deal, since a portion of their loans are on a
par with the bondholders' securities.
   The New Jersey banks declined comment, as did Mr. Trump.
The four major creditors, Bankers Trust of New York Corp.,
Chase Manhattan Bank Corp., Citicorp and Manufacturers
Hanover Corp., also declined comment.
   If the restructuring proposal is approved, the creditors
are expected to require Mr. Trump to set up a more
traditional corporate structure that would keep close tabs on
the company's finances.
   People close to the talks said Trump officials have
already interviewed various candidates for the position of
chief financial officer of the Trump Organization. One
individual who has been interviewed is Frederick Zuckerman,
treasurer of the Chrysler Corp., who has said he would be
leaving the auto maker, according to people familiar with the
situation. Other applicants also are being considered,
according to a person close to Mr. Trump. Mr. Zuckerman
declined to comment on his plans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   British Aerospace PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS U.BA
</CO>
<LP>
   BRITISH AEROSPACE PLC (London) -- Sir James Blyth was
named a nonexecutive director of this aircraft maker. Sir
James is chief executive of Boots Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   American Claims Evaluation Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AMCE
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERICAN CLAIMS EVALUATION Inc., Jericho, N.Y., declared a
2-for-1 stock split, payable Aug. 14 to stock of record July
10. The company reviews hospital bills for insurers and for
self-insured companies. American has 930,000 shares
outstanding, about half of which are held by Gary Gelman,
president and chief executive officer. Robert E. Lindberg,
executive vice president, said directors declared the split
to put more shares on the market at a lower price and reach
more retail investors. For the year ended March 31, American
reported net income more than tripled to $520,517, or 52
cents a share, as revenue rose 62% to $4.4 million. In
over-the-counter trading yesterday, the shares were quoted at
$10 bid, down 25 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Anti-Reagan Sophistry
   ----
   By David Brock
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Kevin Phillips begins from a promising point: the
intellectual bankruptcy of both the Bush administration and
its Democratic opposition. The moment is brief, alas. For by
Mr. Phillips's lights, this bipartisan shortcoming stems from
a reluctance to undo the economic and cultural legacy of
Ronald Reagan.
   It is this legacy that Mr. Phillips seeks to elucidate in
"The Politics of Rich and Poor: Wealth and the American
Electorate in the Reagan Aftermath" (Random House, 262 pages,
$19.95). While Mr. Phillips, a well-known political analyst
based in Washington., D.C., proves glaringly ill-equipped for
the task, the book should be instructive nevertheless to
historians of the 1980s as a precious relic of the opinion
elite's anti-Reagan sophistry, especially its misreporting of
"Reaganomics."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Of course, this very fact ensures Mr. Phillips
enthusiastic notices from the culture police, all the more
since his Republican credentials are seen to bestow a certain
gravitas to analyses that unfailingly jibe with prevailing
left-liberal prejudices.
   The book purports to be about history, politics and
economics. Let's take these in reverse sequence. Grudgingly,
the author acknowledges the unbroken 90-month record of
economic growth, the new jobs, high-tech innovations and
surging exports of the Reagan-Bush watch. But, oh, there are
the familiar (and contradictory) bogeymen: the budget and
trade deficits, the "foreign invasion" of America, the
"bicoastal economy," "the low-paying service economy," "paper
entrepreneurialism" and "economic polarization."
   Each of these is either a distortion or a canard. The
federal deficit as a percent of GNP has fallen to an
estimated 2.6% this year from 5.4% in 1985. If U.S. assets
were valued at current prices, the U.S. still would be a net
creditor. Increased foreign capital inflows and trade
deficits are a sign of health in the economy, not sickness.
   The crux of the author's case is an accounting of "who
profited and who lost" under Reagan. But flipping to Appendix
C, beginning with the first full year of the Reagan recovery
(1983), tabulations of per capita income and median family
income reveal an almost perfectly uniform rise. Evidence that
"the poor got poorer" is at best inconclusive. What really
happened was that all income groups traded up.
   Mr. Phillips wants to pin the natural creative and
destructive dynamics of the market on President Reagan's
"abusive, self-serving, new conservative money culture." But
even on government-set tax policy, he can't make the argument
stick. During the 1980s, he reports, the percentage of total
federal income tax payments by the top 1% of taxpayers rose,
while effective tax rates for the bottom 20% fell.
   What we are left with, then, is an Andy Rooney-like
indictment based not on macroeconomic trends, but on
anomalies and manners. The U.S.-Canada free-trade pact is an
overall boon, but not if you ask the Iowa pig farmer hurt by
Canadian imports. At one summit meeting, Japan's prime
minister requested a motorcycle escort as large as Mr.
Reagan's. The nerve] In a book that aims to paint the Big
Picture, the analytical force of such vignettes is exactly
nil.
   Indeed, all this book really demonstrates is how much the
author's high-toned sensibilities were deeply miffed by
"Darwinism and Babbitry," "Boone Pickens and Ivan Boesky,"
"stretch limos and $300 cowboy boots," "champagne and
raspberries," "hustling middle-class Reagan aides and
right-wing economists," "Rodeo Drive, Sutton Place and the
Florida Gold Coast."
   Such images pepper entire chapters filled with nothing but
lists. Lists of billionaires, and centimillionaires, and
decamillionaires. Lists of the "Wall Street 100" and the
"largest golden parachutes." Lists of international bank
assets by nationality, and foreign-owned U.S. publishing
enterprises.
   All of which, in Mr. Phillips's estimation, is breeding
today a "populist rebellion" against "gunslinger capitalism"
reminiscent of the supposed public backlash against the
Gilded Age and the Roaring Twenties. He believes this
paradigm produced presidential wins for "reformists" in 1896
and 1932; by implication, 1992 should be a Democratic
triumph. (It's worth noting that he intimated the same for
1984 in the gloomy 1982 tome "Post-Conservative America.")
   Political prognostication is the author's metier, but here
too he strikes false notes. It is difficult to imagine a
populist backlash against Reaganism, which was, to the teeth,
anti-elitist: "Corporate raiding" forced change on bloated
Fortune 500 bluebloods, as did deregulation on high-paid
unionists in coddled industries. But then, Mr. Phillips's
favorite "populist" has always been Richard Nixon, with his
wage-and-price controls, food stamps and detente.
   Mr. Phillips acknowledges that the political victories to
which he harks back came amid economic depressions. These
were brought on not by unrestrained freemarket policies, as
he would have it, but by their abandonment.
   So the only prospect for the author's predictions is a
counterrevolution from above, so to speak, in which a
Republican administration hangs itself by yielding to
tax-hungry, regulation-happy redistributionists. As it
happens, this is precisely the course Mr. Phillips urges --
perhaps superfluously -- on President Bush.
   ---
   Mr. Brock is a fellow at the Heritage Foundation in
Washington, D.C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   National Westminster Bank PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NW
</CO>
<LP>
   NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (London) -- Sir Ian
MacLaurin, 53 years old, chairman of Tesco PLC, and Martin
Taylor, 55, a vice chairman of Hanson PLC, will join the
board of this bank company later this year as non-executive
directors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Votes to Seek
   Comment on Plan
   For Mutual Funds
   ----
   By Sandra Block
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
INSURANCE (INS)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission voted
to seek public comment on ways to update the 50-year-old
statute that governs mutual funds.
   The comments are being solicited in connection with a
study started recently by the SEC's investment-management
division to suggest legislative and regulatory changes to the
Investment Company Act, which governs regulations of mutual
funds, said Kathryn McGrath, the division's head. The study
is scheduled to last at least until next spring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The SEC will request comments on such issues as
distribution of mutual fund shares, closed-end funds and
repurchases of shares, transactions in options and futures
contracts, and the regulation of securities products sold by
insurance companies.
   SEC members strongly support the plan to update the
statute regulating mutual funds. "I'm afraid the Investment
Company Act has become cumbersome and outdated and even
anti-competitive," Commissioner Philip Lochner said.
   The agency also voted to seek comment on a proposal that
would allow issuers of initial public offerings to distribute
an abbreviated version of the offering's prospectus to
investors. A summary prospectus provides investors with a
condensed version of key information in the full registration
statement, enabling investors to determine whether they are
interested in more information about the offering, the SEC
said.
   While summary prospectuses have been permitted for issuers
who met certain criteria, the proposal would for the first
time allow their use in IPOs. Issuers usually don't take
advantage of the procedure unless their prospectus exceeds
100 pages, said Linda Quinn, head of the SEC's division of
corporation finance.
   The proposal to extend the procedure to IPOs stems from a
recent inquiry by an issuer of an IPO, SEC officials said.
Because of the length of the prospectus, the cost of
soliciting investor interest in the offering would be
substantial.
   Ms. Quinn acknowledged that the use of abbreviated
prospectuses to generate investor interest "has the potential
for abuse." But since IPOs are always reviewed by the
commission staff before they are offered to the public, "I
don't think that will figure in," she said.
   The SEC also voted to seek comment on a proposal aimed at
assuring that regulators have access to records of investment
companies that invest in foreign securities. However, several
commissioners, including Chairman Richard Breeden, indicated
that they may not support the proposal when it comes up for a
final vote. "I don't want to suggest support for comment on
this issue indicates support for adoption of the rule," he
said.
   The proposal would direct investment companies to keep
certain books and records in the U.S. and require companies
to preserve all original books and records in English. The
rule would ensure that the SEC staff can carry out its
responsibility to inspect investment companies, Ms. McGrath
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Wellcome PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.WCM WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WELLCOME PLC (London) -- James Cochrane, 46, and Keith
Merrifield, 48, have been appointed to the boards of both
this international pharmaceutical group and Wellcome
Foundation Ltd., the group's operating arm, effective in
August. Mr. Cochrane is currently president, Northern Europe,
of Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. On the retirement of Claude
Matons, he will be responsible for Wellcome's operations in
Europe and for Calmic International Ltd, a wholly owned
subsidiary of the group. Mr. Merrifield is currently managing
director of another unit, Wellcome International Trading
Ltd., and will become responsible for international
operations and Wellcome Environmental Health, a third unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Moody's Mulls
   Downgrading
   Chrysler Debt
   ---
   Review Follows Defections
   Of Four Senior Officials
   At the No. 3 Auto Maker
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell and Melinda Grenier Guiles
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it is reviewing $22.28
billion of Chrysler Corp. debt for possible downgrade.
   The review comes in the wake of "recent management
defections" and reflects Moody's concerns about the auto
maker's "financial flexibility" to compete in an increasingly
competitive market, the credit rating service said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a statement, Moody's said its analysis will focus
primarily on the "prospects for improvement in the trend of
Chrysler's operating performance and market share in the next
several years."
   Moody's announcement came after the market closed
yesterday. In composite New York Stock Exchange trading,
Chrysler stock closed at $15.875 a share, down 37.5 cents.
   Harold H. Goldberg, chairman of Moody's corporate rating
committee, said the rating on most Chrysler debt is now "two
refined notches away from the speculative rating category."
He said Moody's hopes to decide within two weeks if ratings
will be lowered.
   Any downward move will hurt Chrysler in several ways,
including making it more expensive for the auto maker to
raise money in the credit markets and generally hurting its
financial image at a time when it doesn't need any more bad
news.
   Last month, the auto maker said it was abandoning efforts
to sell its defense-related operations because it didn't get
any satisfactory offers. But the company did sell Gulfstream
Aerospace for $825 million in March.
   Within the past five weeks, four top executives have
announced departures. Gerald Greenwald, the former vice
chairman and heir apparent to Chairman Lee A. Iacocca,
resigned late last month to head a proposed employee buy-out
at United Airlines. Bennett E. Bidwell, chairman of
Chrysler's Chrysler Motors unit, said he wants to retire on
Jan. 1, 1991 but is willing to change his plans if he is
"really needed."
   Chrysler's treasurer plans to leave this summer and the
vice president of international operations resigned to take a
top job at Black &amp; Decker Corp.
   The auto maker insists the departures are purely
coincidental, but Mr. Iacocca last week said he now will stay
at Chrysler beyond the 1991 expiration of his contract; he
didn't say how long he will remain.
   Moody's said it will examine the impact of these moves on
"the success of Chrysler's strategy to improve its
competitive position." Chrysler must sell more cars in the
future and that challenge "requires the strongest possible
management," said Moody's Mr. Goldberg.
   Moody's also will analyze Chrysler's ability to "reverse
its declining automotive market share" before new vehicles
come out in 1991 and 1992. Chrysler's share of the U.S. car
market declined sharply from February through April, with
Japanese auto makers Honda Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp.
besting it several times. In May, however, Chrysler's share
began to improve, even though its 9.7% slice of all cars sold
in the U.S. was still below last year's 10.9% level.
   Over the past two years, Chrysler has killed off some 20
nameplates but has been slow to bring any replacement
products to market. The company won't have a new, high-volume
car line until at least 1992; it will introduce new minivans
this fall, but updated Jeep models are still many months
away.
   Moody's noted that the "increasingly intense competitive
environment," particularly for the profitable Jeeps and
minivans, raises questions about Chrysler's ability to
generate the "substantial capital" needed to expand its
product line.
   The Highland Park, Mich., company called Moody's action
"inappropriate and unwarranted." The No. 3 U.S. auto maker
pointed to the unanticipated $5 million profit it earned in
the first quarter of 1990 on its automotive operations as
evidence that a $1.5 billion cost-cutting program it adopted
last year is working. Chrysler officials also recently noted
that the company has some $4 billion in cash and marketable
securities.
   The auto maker said it "plans to continue without
interruption its $15 billion product spending program and
believes that its business in 1990 will continue to improve."
   Among the ratings under review are the Baa-2 rating for
Chrysler Corp. senior debt and the (P)Baa-2 rating on the
company's shelf registration.
   Moody's also is reviewing ratings for Chrysler Financial
Corp., including the Baa-2 rating on its senior debt and the
Baa-3 rating on its senior subordinated debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Top Bush Aides Say Japan Is Stalling
   In Trade Talks, Press for Quick Action
   ----
   By Peter Truell and Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Senior Bush administration officials, accusing Japan of
foot-dragging, say talks aimed at improving trade and
economic relations are stalled and that President Bush and
Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu may have to meet again soon to
defuse tensions.
   The White House is sensitive about the recent erosion in
the bilateral economic relationship because President Bush
earlier this year decided against naming Japan for unfair
trade practices under the tough Super 301 provision of the
1988 Trade Act, which carries the threat of trade
retaliation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. critics charge that ever since that decision Japan
has stonewalled U.S. attempts to gain better access to its
markets. For example, a recent high-level U.S.-Japan meeting
in Hawaii resulted in little or no progress in resolving
issues that threaten to delay a final report -- due at the
end of the month -- on ways to resolve problems.
   The two countries began this process, called the
Structural Impediments Initiative (SII), last summer in an
attempt to reduce bilateral friction and address the U.S.'s
stubbornly high bilateral deficit with Japan. "We were
shocked at the stonewalling in Hawaii," said one senior
administration official who asked not to be named.
   Japanese officials, in return, argue that the U.S. is
pushing commitments that weren't required by the interim
report. "The main architecture is already on the table," a
foreign ministry official said. "Neither side is supposed to
add new buildings to the blueprint."
   The Japanese seem to sense that fast repair work is
needed. Foreign Minister Taro Nakayama and Vice Minister for
International Finance Makoto Utsumi are in the U.S. this week
to meet with their U.S. counterparts to discuss the SII and
other bilateral issues. Shintaro Abe, a powerful,
high-ranking leader of the Liberal Democratic Party, will
soon visit the U.S. for meetings on the 30th anniversary of
the U.S.-Japan security treaty, but will also likely hold
talks on the SII.
   Both sides agree that the most contentious issues
preventing the SII from succeeding are Japan's future level
of public spending; procedures for following up and ensuring
progress in implementing the SII report's recommendations,
and how Japan will toughen its antitrust procedures.
   Recent statements from the Japanese government saying that
the country intends to continue running a surplus equivalent
to 2% of national output have angered the Bush
administration, particularly when the U.S. is trying to
address a $49 billion deficit with Japan. A continued
Japanese surplus of that magnitude "creates a dislocation in
the trading system," U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills
said in a meeting with reporters yesterday, adding that it's
"a statement from the {Japanese} ministry of finance that
needs to be corrected."
   Others are more direct. "We're damned if we're going to
let {Japan} accumulate another half trillion dollars in trade
surpluses at our expense over the course of the next decade,"
said the senior administration official. That, he continued,
will happen if the Japanese don't open up their markets
further and increase public investment.
   Japan's recent insistence on retaining its surplus "is
purely a negotiating ploy on the part of the Ministry of
Finance of Japan," David Mulford, Treasury undersecretary for
international affairs, told reporters this week. He said it
was an attempt "to take pressure off itself to comply with
understandings it reached with the U.S. earlier this year to
increase public expenditure."
   Congress also is growing impatient. "The government of
Japan must understand that if SII doesn't meaningfully
address bilateral trade concerns, the Congress may have no
choice but to explore additional measures to address these
concerns," Sens. Robert Packwood (R., Ore.), Max Baucus (D.,
Mont.) and Jack Danforth (R., Mo.), said in a joint letter
sent to Mrs. Hills this week.
   The Japanese insist they have made progress since a
lengthy interim SII report was published in April. On May 30,
Japan revised its large retail store regulations, saying
stores must receive a permit to open within 18 months of
application. Previously, that process often dragged on for 10
years, effectively excluding many foreign stores. Also,
Japan's Fair Trade Commission has increased its staff and is
drafting antitrust changes that, the Japanese say, answer
many U.S. requests. Japan's major ministries also are mulling
further proposals for meeting U.S. concerns about the SII,
officials in Tokyo say.
   And foreign ministry officials say that the notion Japan
should preserve its surplus is a minority position advocated
by the ministry of finance. "We are aware of that view, but
the government as a whole doesn't have that as a policy," one
Japanese official said.
   But difficult problems remain. In particular, the U.S.
wants Japan to increase public spending to 10% of the gross
national product over the next 10 years. But the Japanese say
they want to use a yen total rather than a percentage of
national output. "They raised the 400 trillion yen figure,"
another senior U.S. administration official said, but he said
that "just continues the {Japanese} surplus at its current
level." Mr. Kaifu himself, in remarks to reporters over the
weekend, also said Japan was opposed to specifying
percentages of GNP, indicating strong resistance to the U.S.
approach.
   There also are disagreements over what the penalties
should be for punishing those who violate antitrust
regulations; the U.S. maintains that Japan merely imposes
small fines that amount to little more than wrist-slapping.
   The U.S. and Japan plan to exchange proposals June 20 and
then meet June 25 to finalize the SII report. But U.S.
officials question whether that will be possible. "If there's
to be a final report by the time of the Houston summit on
July 9, then we'll probably have to meet again {after the end
of June}," this official said.
   If those SII meetings do falter, President Bush and Prime
Minister Kaifu will at least get a chance to address these
issues soon. They are scheduled to hold a private bilateral
summit before the main gathering in Houston of the heads of
state of the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France, Britain,
Italy and Canada.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Best Sellers
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   FICTION
                                                                                                       

                                          LAST     WEEKS
                                          WEEK     ON LIST
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

      by Scott Turow
      (Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux, $22.95)      --         1
                                                                                                       

   2  September
      by Rosamunde Pilcher
      (St. Martin's/Dunne, $22.95)            2         9
                                                                                                       

   3  The Stand: The Complete and
      Uncut Edition
      by Stephen King (Doubleday, $24.95)     1         6
                                                                                                       

   4  Dragon
      by Clive Cussler
      (Simon &amp; Schuster, $21.95)              3         5
                                                                                                       

   5  The Golden Orange
      by Joseph Wambaugh (Morrow, $19.95)     5         5
                                                                                                       

   6  Oh, the Places You'll Go]
      by Dr. Seuss (Random House, $12.95)     4        17
                                                                                                       

   7  The Bourne Ultimatum
      by Robert Ludlum (Random House, $21.95) 7        14
                                                                                                       

   8  An Inconvenient Woman
      by Dominick Dunne (Crown, $19.95)       6         6
                                                                                                       

   9  Skinny Legs and All
      by Tom Robbins (Bantam, $19.95)         8         9
                                                                                                       

  10  Family Pictures
      by Sue Miller (Harper &amp; Row, $19.95)   12         6
                                                                                                       

   NONFICTION
                                                                                                       

                                          LAST     WEEKS
                                          WEEK     ON LIST

   1  Men at Work
      by George Will (Macmillan, $19.95)      1        11
                                                                                                       

   2  Dave Barry Turns 40
      by Dave Barry (Crown, $16.95)           7         4
                                                                                                       

   3  Wealth Without Risk
      by Charles Givens
      (Simon &amp; Schuster, $19.95)              3        71
                                                                                                       

   4  Don't Shoot, It's Only Me
      by Bob Hope and Melville Shavelson
      (Putnam, $19.95)                       --         1
                                                                                                       

   5  Father Son &amp; Co.
      by Thomas J. Watson Jr.
      and Peter Petre (Bantam, $22.95)       10         2
                                                                                                       

   6  Megatrends 2000
      by John Naisbitt and Patricia Aburdene
      (Morrow, $21.95)                        2        21
                                                                                                       

   7  Barbarians at the Gate
      by Bryan Burrough and John Helyar
      (Harper &amp; Row, $22.95)                  5        21
                                                                                                       

   8  Beware the Naked Man
      Who Offers You His Shirt
      by Harvey Mackay (Morrow, $19.95)       9        17
                                                                                                       

   9  In the Arena: A Memoir of
      Victory, Defeat and Renewal
      by Richard M. Nixon
      (Simon &amp; Schuster, $21.95)              6         8
                                                                                                       

  10  It Was on Fire When
      I Lay Down on It
      by Robert Fulghum
      (Villard, $17.95)                       8        40
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   P&amp;G to Buy Some
   Assets of American
   Cyanamid Co.
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   PG ACY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Procter &amp; Gamble Co. agreed to buy most of American
Cyanamid Co.'s men's toiletries and fragrance business for
between $300 million and $370 million.
   The purchase gives P&amp;G the popular Old Spice brand, along
with the Sante Fe brand of toiletries, to add to its cabinet
of personal and beauty-care products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For American Cyanamid, a Wayne, N.J., chemical company,
the sale is a major step in its efforts to shed its Shulton
Group of consumer products, which has posted lackluster
results in recent quarters.
   The final pricetag for P&amp;G will depend on how much
American Cyanamid can get in a separate sale of its Breck
hair-care and Lady's Choice personal-care products business.
P&amp;G said it guaranteed American Cyanamid $370 million for the
combined sales.
   American Cyanamid said it is negotiating to sell Shulton's
household-products business, which includes Pine-Sol cleaner
and Combat insecticides. Shulton's Pierre Cardin fragrances
aren't included in the P&amp;G deal.
   The Old Spice brand of deodorant builds P&amp;G's strength in
that market, where it already holds a 24% share with its Sure
and Secret brands. Old Spice has about 4% of that market,
analysts said.
   The Old Spice and Sante Fe men's fragrances mark P&amp;G's
first move into that market. With its purchase last year of
Noxell Corp., P&amp;G moved into the women's fragrances market
with the Navy brand of perfume.
   Analysts said the Old Spice brands share distribution to
drug stores and mass marketers, where Noxell sells its Cover
Girl and Clarion lines of makeup. "It's a good fit with other
mass-market cosmetics," said Bonita Austin, analyst with
Wertheim Schroder &amp; Co. in New York.
   P&amp;G is sure to address Old Spice's advertising. American
Cyanamid had tried to revamp the brand with new ads to move
away from the sailor image of previous campaigns. One recent
commercial, shot in Paris, featured a Frenchman with "a
passion for American things."
   But the company curbed spending last year as it looked to
control costs in the division, analysts said. That should
change under P&amp;G's ownership. "P&amp;G may not have the most
dynamic ad copy, but it has the ability to create some
excitement" with the brand, said Lynne Hyman of First Boston.
   P&amp;G also is expected to expand the brand's world-wide
sales. Edwin L. Artzt, P&amp;G chairman and chief executive
officer, called the Old Spice brand "a strong foothold" in a
market with growth potential.
   Some analysts figure the purchase will mildly dilute P&amp;G's
1991 earnings. Ms. Austin put the dilution at three or four
cents a share, with her earnings estimate at $5.20 a share
for the year.
   The acquisition is subject to regulatory approval.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Some Property Tax Courses
   Receive Poor Assessments
   ----
   By Mark Robichaux
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   It sounds like a sure-fire way to make money. Everyone
wants property taxes reduced, and you can be the one who
makes it happen.
   In the past five years, companies have boomed by teaching
aspiring entrepreneurs the ropes of a fast-growing, little
regulated field: appealing property tax assessments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some graduates are making a good living at the work, a
legitimate service for property owners. But a rising number
of trainees, after spending thousands of dollars without
turning a profit, are complaining bitterly that they were
misled.
   Through seminars and mail-order manuals, the firms are
churning out scores of graduates at a steady clip. Two years
ago, Deborah Gates answered a magazine ad for a course by
Lear McNally Corp. The three-day course and materials cost
$7,500, but the Philadelphia training company offered a
money-back guarantee of success. Lear's promotional material
said the work required neither experience nor licenses, and
it promised three years of "ongoing education and support. .
. ."
   After taking the course, Mrs. Gates discovered a real
estate license is indeed required to state an opinion of land
value for a property assessment appeal in her home, Dade
County, Fla. Also, the county's appeals process varied
considerably from what Lear taught. On a part-time basis,
Mrs. Gates is trying to appeal cases. But in two years, she
won only two appeals.
   As for the ongoing support, the company recently
disconnected its phones and is now the target of a
preliminary investigation by the U.S. postal inspector in
Philadelphia. None of Lear's principals could be reached for
comment.
   Mrs. Gates isn't alone. "At the most, I believe one person
out of every class has a chance of making good money," says
Richard Fogg, a former sales manager with Property Tax
Consultants Inc., San Diego, which also offers courses. (A
typical course may have 20 or more students.) "It's a tough
business," he adds.
   Many who pay for these courses accuse the training firms
of misleading them on the income they are likely to earn, the
ease of the appeal process and the availability of clients.
Increasingly, they are filing complaints with state attorneys
general, Better Business Bureaus and U.S. postal inspectors
around the country. Pennsylvania's attorney general, for
example, received 15 complaints in the past year. Meanwhile,
local property tax review boards complain of frivolous
appeals -- stemming from some seminar graduates -- that bog
down the appeals process.
   The companies offering the courses deny any wrongdoing and
point to many successful graduates.
   The complaints have grown as the courses themselves have
grown, spurred by rising property taxes in recent years. "I
see a whole new service industry developing," says Bill
Barrett, president of Property Tax Reduction Consultants, a
Naperville, Ill., tax consulting firm and seminar sponsor.
"There is a demand out there."
   Usually for a fee of up to $10,000, a typical firm offers
a two-day or five-day course to teach "affiliates" how to
challenge commercial property valuations on a contingency
basis. Success at the work usually depends on finding errors
in tax bills or discrepancies in appraisals.
   A handful of firms lead the seminar business nationwide,
advertising mostly in entrepreneurial and business
publications. Often, a company promises from six months to
three years of free backup support, which typically includes
having questions answered by staff consultants and getting
advice from real-estate consultants. No firm interviewed
would give the total number of its graduates.
   To be sure, tax attorneys and consultants provide a useful
service for commercial and residential property owners by
appealing tax assessments. And many graduates say there is
money to be made in the field. Kate Frechette, a Rochester,
N.Y., affiliate of Property Tax Consultants, recently got an
apartment's assessment cut to $1.8 million from $2.4 million.
Her fees range from 19% to 51% of a reduction.
   But many affiliates complain that the courses don't cover
enough ground. "It's really not sufficient -- even after you
absorb all the material," says Jimmie Lou Jacobs, who took a
two-day course at Property Valuation Consultants Inc.,
Joliet, Ill., that sells for $9,900. A $500 computer program
bought from PVC proved no more helpful. After hundreds of
letters and calls to property owners in a year and a half,
Mrs. Jacobs says she attracted only six clients. Although she
got help from an experienced tax consultant, the local board
rejected all six assessment appeals.
   PVC says unsatisfied affiliates aren't working hard enough
or are in the wrong markets. Says Vice President Rick
Neiswonger: "Everybody isn't going to pick up everything. We
offer to work with them and help them any way we can."
   But PVC's promotions paint a promising picture. On a
videotape for PVC, actor Eddie Albert claims, "Actually about
50 cases a year -- just four a month -- can result in an
income a doctor or a lawyer works years to achieve." PVC
President Nancy Freeman concedes property tax consulting is
complex. "Nevertheless," she tells prospective students in a
videotape, "in just two days here in Joliet, we can make you
quite expert, and you don't have to have a background in real
estate."
   Mr. Neiswonger notes: "A lot of it has to do with
individual talent. It takes a lot of work."
   Yet Joseph Eckert, the International Association of
Assessing Officers' director of education, says: "Paying any
amount of money, one can never learn fee appraisal in a week
-- it's simply too short a time."
   Mr. Eckert points out that a Certified Assessment
Evaluator, a professional ranking in the IAAO, requires at
least three 30-hour courses, demonstrations of appraisals,
exams and other courses.
   Affiliates often find counties base assessments on factors
and cycles that differ dramatically from state to state. In
Florida, for example, properties are revalued or reviewed for
assessment every year. Elsewhere, reassessments can be as
infrequent as a decade or more. California reassesses values
upon sale of property.
   Many affiliates complain they aren't told of all the state
and local requirements for tax appeals before they start. A
year and a half ago, real estate broker Perry Frantzman
answered an ad in this newspaper to become an affiliate of
Property Tax Consultants. But his career as a tax consultant
was as short-lived as the five-day course he took for $4,995
(it now costs $7,500). In New Jersey, he found, only a
practicing attorney can appeal corporate real-estate tax
assessments in state tax court. He says instructors never
disclosed this, despite his questions on the matter.
   Michael McCormick, president of PTC, says he didn't talk
to Mr. Frantzman before Mr. Frantzman took the class. But he
adds: "We tell everybody they need to check out the local
requirements. It serves us no purpose to put someone into a
position where they can't do business."
   Disgruntled affiliates aren't the only people with gripes.
In many states, tax appeal boards -- and even some tax
consulting firms -- have complained about the lack of
discretion shown by some consulting affiliates in soliciting
clients. Some send mass direct-mail solicitations, then
schedule the assessment-appeal cases before receiving solid
commitments from owners. A few months ago, one affiliate
filed 175 appeals with the DuPage County, Ill., tax
assessment office but later withdrew 150.
   "Each one of those complaints has to be docketed and
scheduled for a hearing," said Paul Bower, DuPage County
supervisor of assessments. "Time has to be set aside, and we
don't have a lot of time." Mr. Bower said his office grants
changes in assessments in about 25% of the appeal cases, all
of which can be appealed to the Illinois Property Tax Appeal
Board.
   The IAAO's Mr. Eckert hopes states soon will adopt
licensing laws and tougher regulations dealing with this
growing industry. Very few states -- under 10 -- require some
sort of licensing now, he says. Despite numerous appeals, he
adds: "The tax burden in the community doesn't go away. It
has to be redistributed somewhere."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wednesday's Markets:
   Retail Data,
   Rate Hopes
   Boost Bonds
   ---
   Investors Debating
   Possible Fed Move
   As Stocks Ease a Bit
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Worse-than-expected retail sales for May drove
bond prices higher as investors happily contemplated lower
interest rates.
   Lower rates play well in the stock market, too, but
investors worried that sluggish economic growth might
deteriorate to the point of hurting profits and, in turn,
stock prices. The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed
briefly into record territory in midafternoon, then eased
back to close at 2929.95, down 3.47 in moderately active
trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Long-term U.S. Treasury bond prices rose nearly
seven-eighths of a point, or nearly $8.75 for each $1,000 of
face amount, in active trading. The dollar was down against
the West German mark and up against the Japanese yen, but
much of the action in this global market involved currencies
other than the dollar.
   The government report on May retail sales -- showing a
sharp decline rather than an expected weak rise -- raised
expectations that the Federal Reserve Board may ease interest
rates in order to stave off recession.
   Stock prices probably would have fallen further on the
news of lower consumer spending, but investors in this market
also like to fantasize about the Fed lowering rates. In
addition, the drop in bond yields that accompanies a rise in
bond prices makes stock investments look comparatively more
attractive.
   In the stock market, "it wasn't a bad day for a down day,"
said Joseph McAlinden, Dillon Read research director, noting
that the volume of trading in declining stocks wasn't much
greater than in advancers.
   Gary Ciminero, chief economist at Fleet/Norstar Financial
Group, Providence, R.I., said the retail-sales report is "bad
news for the growth indicators, and the stock market is
reacting in a way that says, `Whoops.' Investors like to
celebrate lower interest rates, but not at the expense of
economic growth."
   Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Norwest Corp.,
Minneapolis, said he feels the retail-sales figure is a more
important indicator than the inflation indicators due out
today and tomorrow. "After the weak employment numbers we've
seen, a decline in retail sales means the economy continues
to be weak and raises concern about recession," he said.
   The dollar didn't move on the retail-sales report,
however, Mr. Sohn said. "Foreign exchange is much more
sensitive to trade and inflation numbers," he said.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell. Moderately active trading totaled 158.9
million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where
declining issues outnumbered advancers, 786 to 722.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices climbed. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond fell to 8.38%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.6865 marks and 154.75 yen, compared
with 1.6965 marks and 154.55 yen Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Battle for Listings
   May Follow Ruling
   On `1 Share, 1 Vote'
   ---
   Big Board, Most Vulnerable,
   May Adjust Requirement
   Due to Court's Decision
   ----
   By Craig Torres and Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A major court ruling striking down the Securities and
Exchange Commission's "one-share, one-vote" rule could
reignite a war among U.S. stock exchanges over which one gets
to list the shares of major American corporations.
   Although exchanges were reluctant to tip their hands
yesterday, people familiar with exchange rule-making say
listing requirements may be rapidly adjusted to attract an
expected round of new stock issues by companies seeking to
create several classes of stock with different voting rights,
principally as an anti-takeover defense.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most at risk is the New York Stock Exchange, which
currently has a rule on its books that, with some exceptions,
prevents companies from listing new shares of stock that have
different voting rights.
   A federal appeals court Tuesday struck down SEC rule 19c4,
which required corporations to have equal voting rights for
different classes of stock. A rule similar to 19c4 has been
incorporated into the New York Stock Exchange's rule books.
   With the court decision, many companies could seek to
create multiple classes of stock with different voting
rights. But they are potentially barred from listing these
new shares on the Big Board because of its current rules.
   The American Stock Exchange and the National Association
of Securities Dealers Nasdaq over-the-counter market never
adopted a version of 19c4 for their rule books, according to
one attorney familiar with the exchanges. "Companies traded
on the American Stock Exchange or the NASD are no longer
subject to the SEC's regulation of the allocation of voting
rights among shareholders," said Robert D. Rosenbaum, and
counsel for the Business Roundtable, which successfully
challenged the SEC.
   Meredith Brown, head of mergers and acquisitions at
Debevoise &amp; Plimpton said: "The question is, `Will there be a
race among {exchanges} for greater permissiveness?'"
   In the mid-1980s, the Amex and Nasdaq used their more
liberal listing requirements to try to lure from the Big
Board companies seeking to create classes of stock with
different voting rights. That fight ultimately led the SEC to
enact its rule requiring one-share, one-vote for companies
that didn't already have multiple stock classes.
   Now, in order to compete with rival exchanges, it could
"be necessary for {the Big Board} to amend its own rules to
eliminate the effect of rule 19c4," Mr. Rosenbaum said.
   Perhaps not. Some people familiar with the SEC think the
agency may try to abort the battle by cajoling exchanges into
adopting uniform listing regulations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Tandycrafts Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TAC
</CO>
<LP>
   TANDYCRAFTS Inc. (Fort Worth, Texas) -- Kenneth L.
Gregson, 60-year-old president and chief executive officer of
this hobbies and handicrafts concern, was elected to the
additional position of chairman, effective July 1, succeeding
William H. Michero, 65, who will retire June 30, but will
remain a director.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Russ Togs Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   RTS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   RUSS TOGS Inc. (New York) -- John W. Burden III, retired
chairman of Federated/Allied Department Stores, the U.S. unit
of Campeau Corp., was named a director of this apparel maker,
filling a vacancy left by Robert S. Rubin's resignation, and
will act as a consultant to Russ Togs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   PNC Financial
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PNC
</CO>
<LP>
   PNC FINANCIAL Corp. (Pittsburgh) -- Thomas E. Paisley III,
senior vice president, credit policy, at the Pittsburgh
National Bank unit, was named to the same position at this
bank holding company, succeeding Bruce E. Robbins, who was
elected president of the Central Bancorp unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Five EC Nations Agree to End Controls
   On Immigration, Travel Among Them
   ----
   By Mark M. Nelson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Five European Community countries are to sign
an accord removing all immigration controls among them,
allowing people to travel freely in an area covering almost
half the area of the EC.
   The accord -- expected to take full effect by the end of
1991 and link France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and
Luxembourg -- was approved by the West German cabinet.
Signing ceremonies will be held next Tuesday in a small
Luxembourg village called Schengen, a border village that
gave the accord its name because of its close proximity to
neighboring France and Germany.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement is considered important to overall efforts
to remove border controls among the EC's twelve member
countries. Removing passport controls has become one of the
most concrete symbols of European integration, and could make
life and business much simpler for the millions of people who
live along Continental Europe's copious collection of
borders.
   The agreement is the first major international accord that
treats East and West Germany as a single country. The five
countries had planned to sign the agreement last December,
but the West German cabinet refused to approve it because of
concerns about East Germany.
   Now that German unification is no longer in question, the
five nations agreed to include East Germany in territory
covered by the Schengen accord. East German officials helped
in the negotiations, and the participants agreed that
Schengen territory will extend East to the Polish border at
the Oder and Neisse Rivers.
   The accord is seen as a major building block for the new
architecture that the EC hopes will bind the EC nations ever
closer in coming years. The Schengen countries will open
negotiations with Italy later this month to bring a sixth
country into the Schengen group; Spain and Portugal are
expected to try to join soon after.
   While full details of the accord won't be released until
Tuesday, the agreement does provide for strengthened measures
to fight cross-border crime, drug trafficking and illegal
immigration. It will establish a common list of countries
that require visas to visit the Schengen countries. The
accord also will ease some customs controls on goods, though
complete removal of such controls will have to await an
EC-wide agreement on value-added-tax harmonization.
   The accord still has to be approved by the parliaments of
the five countries. But public support for the agreement is
so strong that most political analysts say they expect the
five countries to race to see which can put it into effect
soonest. When the talks collapsed in December, many Europeans
saw it as a bad sign for the whole European unity movement.
"Amazingly, most of the objections seem to have gone away in
the past five months," said Lieven Lenaerts, Secretary
General of the Benelux Economic Union, which links Belgium,
the Netherlands and Luxembourg, and which has been in charge
of the Schengen negotiations.
   Nevertheless, the EC's own attempt to remove border
controls for people has proved one of the most difficult of
all its plans for a border-free Europe, mainly because of
concerns about criminals, terrorists and drug dealers.
Currently, most European police forces rely on border checks
as a major way of fighting crime.
   To deal with the crime problem, the Schengen countries
will create an extensive data network to share information
about suspected criminals and other police intelligence. That
system, which will be based in Strasbourg, France, should
come into full operation by the end of 1991, Mr. Lenaerts
said.
   Belgium, which hasn't any law protecting access to
electronic data kept on file about its citizens, has promised
to pass new legislation before the agreement comes into full
effect.
   The Schengen agreement could create new headaches for
travelers outside the five-nation area. The external borders
of the Schengen countries will be more strictly controlled
than national borders are currently, experts say, mainly
because officials would perform the immigration controls for
all the rest of the Schengen countries. But once a person is
admitted to one of the Schengen countries he would be able to
pass freely throughout the others.
   For this reason, most countries on the Continent are
expected to come under heavy pressure from travelers and
businesses to become signatories to the Schengen accord.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Reduced Funding
   Is Hurting Some
   Big PBS Stations
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Several of the nation's largest
public-television stations are laying off staff and reducing
programming expenditures in the wake of reduced funding from
the federal government, corporate underwriters and viewer
contributions.
   Among the stations affected by the crunch are WNET in New
York, WHYY in Philadelphia and KCTS in Seattle. All are
members of the Public Broadcasting Service, which receives
funds from the federally funded Corporation for Public
Broadcasting. PBS station officials said viewer donations are
flat and haven't kept pace with rising production costs, and
federal funding hasn't increased to keep up with inflation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest victim of the budget crunch is New York's WNET.
Yesterday, the station said that because of a shortage of
funding, it would reduce its 1990-91 budget, which begins
July 1, by 11.5% from $112.7 million to $99.7 million.
   As a result, about 10% of the station's 500-member staff
will be laid off, and two shows, the locally produced
public-affairs series, "The Eleventh Hour" and "Metro Week in
Review," will be canceled.
   "Revenues have not kept pace with rising costs," said
William F. Baker, WNET president. "These two shows were the
only ones we produced locally and the ones that were not
fully funded, or even close to being fully funded."
   While PBS is an umbrella organization that provides
programs for 337 public-TV stations nationwide, some
stations, such as WNET and WGBH in Boston, also produce a
number of shows for PBS members.
   WHYY, the Philadelphia PBS station, recently laid off
eight employees and isn't filling five other positions, says
Nessa Forman, the station's program director. Seattle's KCTS
reduced its staff by 10% when it eliminated 14 jobs and
reduced its annual budget by about 1% to $13.2 million.
   "We've had to redirect our budget to reflect the sluggish
economy," said Walter Parsons, senior vice president of
finance and administration at KCTS.
   Peter Downey, a senior vice president at Alexandria,
Va.-based PBS, said he doesn't think the financial woes at
the individual PBS stations "represent a trend."
   "This is a high-risk business," he said. "Stations that
have budgets approaching $100 million, like WNET and WGBH,
have to get a lot of money fast and from a lot of different
places. It's not easy."
   Henry Becton, president of Boston's WGBH, said the
station's $100 million budget, which rose 10% last year, will
be flat for its coming fiscal year, which begins in
September.
   WNET's Mr. Baker said WNET will air two new series in
September, but to save costs, the shows will be aired live
rather than on tape.
   "The Eleventh Hour," which premiered as a nightly show in
January 1989, had an annual operating budget of $6 million,
said Mr. Baker. WNET raised only $1 million from foundations.
The rest came from the station's discretionary funds. "And we
are a station without a lot of discretionary funds," he said.
The weekly "Metro Week in Review" had a budget of $375,000.
   The anchor for the "The Eleventh Hour," former CBS News
and NBC News correspondent Robert Lipsyte, said he was
"disappointed" by the show's demise. "We didn't get funding
from any large toxic waste manufacturers. And we didn't get
enough money from the station. I guess there aren't enough
tote baggers out there."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Indiana Group Seeks More Black Judges
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes and Wayne E. Green
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MCAWA
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   In Indiana, where no black has ever served as a federal
judge, a coalition of black lawyers and civil rights groups
is battling to get blacks appointed to both federal and state
courts.
   The three-year-old coalition has fielded picketers at
federal buildings and courthouses and plans to picket the
statehouse on July 4.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The system doesn't work," says coalition leader Hilbert
L. Bradley, an attorney based in Gary, Ind. "Indiana has a
dismal record when you compare it to Deep South states with
histories of discrimination, segregation and racism."
   Nationally, 48 blacks currently sit as federal judges,
serving in 22 states, plus the District of Columbia and the
Virgin Islands. Twenty-seven states in addition to Indiana
have no black federal judges. The District of Columbia leads
the nation with seven, and California follows with six. There
are 753 federal judgeships nationally.
   As a rule, U.S. senators from the president's party play a
crucial role in the selection of federal district judges,
submitting their choices to the Justice Department and the
White House. In Indiana, each senator has three
representatives on a 10-member judicial selection committee.
Spokesmen for Indiana senators Richard Lugar and Daniel
Coats, both Republicans, say the committee has helped in the
selection of a woman and a Hispanic to the federal bench in
Indiana. Currently, there are no openings.
   Both Indiana senators have met with the Bradley coalition
but insist that they will not deviate from the current
selection process, which they say is fair.
   The coalition appears to be making a little more headway
on the state level, where there currently are three black
judges, all at the lowest trial court level. Six blacks have
submitted their names to a nine-member state judicial
nominating committee for three judgeships on a recently
established district court. Mr. Bradley says he expects to
hear from the committee by the fall.
   Mr. Bradley says the dearth of black judges in Indiana is
particularly alarming because about 10% of the state's
population is black. Blacks make up about 25% of the Lake
County's population, which includes the predominantly black
city of Gary. Gary was one of the first cities to elect a
black mayor, Richard Hatcher, in the 1960s. Mr. Hatcher, now
a lawyer in private practice, is one of the several blacks
qualified for a state or federal judgeship, Mr. Bradley says.
   White House Personnel Director Chase Untermeyer said
President Bush, while rejecting quotas, seeks diversity on
the federal bench as well as in the rest of the government.
However, for federal district court judges, Mr. Untermeyer
says, "the pool is pretty much determined by what the
senators or party leaders are sending over."
   Mr. Untermeyer adds that it's more difficult to get
minorities for judicial posts than to get whites because "by
statistics, minorities tend to be Democrats. But it's not
impossible. It's a big country and there are a lot of able
people."
   Mr. Untermeyer ticked off the names of six black judicial
nominees (none of them from Indiana), whom Mr. Bush has sent
to the Senate for confirmation thus far.
   ---
   PHYSICIAN IN AIDS CASE hit with $26.9 million judgment.
   Arizona state district judge David R. Cole's entered
judgment formalizing an earlier jury verdict in favor of
Alexander Edwards, a five-year-old boy who contracted
acquired immune deficiency syndrome through a blood
transfusion. The judgment is believed to be among the largest
ever imposed in an AIDS-related case.
   Held liable were Dr. Abraham Kuruvilla, a Phoenix
physician, and Neonatology Associates Ltd., the medical
clinic where he practices. The boy's parents, Roy and
Patricia Edwards, had brought suit alleging negligence in
connection with a blood transfusion given their son shortly
after his birth. The AIDS virus was contained in plasma used
in the transfusion. The plaintiffs contended that the
transfusion was unnecessary and was given without consent
from the boy's parents.
   A jury in Phoenix awarded the plaintiffs $28.8 million,
including $1 million for each of the parents and the balance
for their son. The judge's order reduced the amount slightly,
apparently to reflect previous out-of-court settlements
involving other defendants in the case.
   R. Douglas Dalton, an attorney with Meyer, Hendricks,
Victor, Osborn &amp; Maledon, counsel for the plaintiffs, said
the verdict may make physicians "more careful" in using blood
products, and in involving parents in decisions on blood
transfusions. But a spokesman for the Arizona Medical
Association said physicians are outraged by the case. He said
the association is organizing a rally of physicians at the
state capital to protest the verdict and lobby for new laws
to prevent future cases.
   Duane Olson, an attorney with Weyl, Guyer, Macban &amp; Olson
in Phoenix, counsel for Dr. Kuruvilla and the clinic, said
he'll seek to overturn the verdict. "I'll feel like the
system broke down if this doesn't get undone," he said.
   ---
   WISCONSIN MAY ABANDON mandatory bar membership.
   The chief justice of Wisconsin's highest court said the
state may drop its requirement that all lawyers practicing in
Wisconsin join the state bar. The announcement came in
response to the U.S. Supreme Court ruling last week that
state bars with mandatory membership rules must refund dues
spent on activities unrelated to legal practice.
   About 30 states require lawyers to join their state bar,
and many of these use members' compulsory dues to fund
lobbying and political activity. The Wisconsin Supreme Court,
which supervises the state bar, had already made bar
membership voluntary temporarily, pending release of the U.S.
Supreme Court ruling.
   A spokesman for the Wisconsin state bar said Chief Justice
Nathan Heffernan appears to be concerned about the
administrative burden of deciding how a state bar with
mandatory membership can spend its money while complying with
the U.S. Supreme Court decision. Justice Heffernan couldn't
be reached for comment.
   But Amedeo Greco, a Wisconsin lawyer who has sued the
state bar to recoup dues money spent on lobbying, says the
state bar may seek to make membership voluntary because it
does not want to lose the right to lobby.
   ---
   CAREER MOVE: Tom A. Alberg, a partner at the law firm of
Perkins Coie in Seattle, will become executive vice president
for legal and corporate affairs at McCaw Cellular
Communications Inc., effective July 1. Mr. Alberg, 50 years
old, was executive committee chairman at 330-lawyer Perkins
Coie. He said he is switching to the in-house post at McCaw,
a cellular telephone company based in Kirkland, Wa., because
"it's a challenging industry and maybe to do something
different. I've been on the law firm side a long time."
   ---
   Edward Felsenthal contributed to this article.
   ---
                  Black Federal Judges
                                                                                                       

            Where black federal judges serve
                                                                                                       

   Alabama                             2
   Arkansas                            1
   California                          6
   Dist. of Columbia                   7
   Florida                             2
   Georgia                             1
   Illinois                            2
   Louisiana                           1
   Maryland                            1
   Massachusetts                       1
   Michigan                            4

   Missouri                            2
   New Jersey                          1
   New York                            5
   Ohio                                2
   Pennsylvania                        3
   South Carolina                      1
   Tennessee                           1
   Texas                               1
   Virgin Islands                      1
   Virginia                            1
   Washington                          1
                                                                                                       

   Source: National Bar Association
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Car Sales
   Declined 13.1%
   In Early June
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC NSANY J.MZD J.MOT SBRU J.IZM TOYOY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- U.S. auto sales continued on a downward spiral
as sales of domestic cars and trucks fell 13.1% in early
June.
   The Big Three U.S. auto makers accounted for all of the
market's decline. The seven major Japanese auto makers who
build cars in the U.S. all reported sales gains, although
some of those increases were related to higher domestic
production this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Car dealers said consumer demand continues to be spotty.
Consumers are snapping up some newer models like Ford Motor
Co.'s Explorer sport utility vehicle introduced in March and
General Motors Corp.'s new 1991 four-door Buick Regal
introduced June 4. But other lines, particularly those that
have been carried over with relatively little change from
this past year, are lagging. Sales of Chevrolet's
Beretta-Corsica compact cars, for example, plunged 24% in the
period.
   "You've got to have something different from everybody
else. Having the new models helps," said Ed Polito, new car
manager at William Lehman Buick Inc., Miami. Sales of the
1990 two-door version of the Regal, for example, are
"sluggish" compared with the new four-door model, even though
the discount package on the coupe is $500 more generous than
that on the sedan, he said.
   Overall, Americans bought 243,297 domestic cars and trucks
in the eight selling days of the June 1-10 period. In the
nine selling days a year earlier, sales totaled 314,942
vehicles. The percentage change is based on the daily sales
rate.
   U.S.-built passenger cars sold at a seasonally adjusted
annual rate of 6.3 million units in the period, according to
a U.S. Department of Commerce formula. That lagged behind
both the 7.2 million-car rate a year ago and the 7.3 million
rate for late May.
   The weak sales in the recent period suggest consumers are
putting up some resistance to auto makers' efforts to cut
back on the heavy discounts that depressed profits earlier
this year. Car makers have relatively lean inventories now,
but the companies are hoping to boost production later this
year. Those beefed-up schedules could come under pressure if
sales don't pick up.
   Among the Big Three, Chrysler had the worst early June
performance. Combined sales of Chrysler cars and trucks fell
20.1% from a year ago. Sales of Chrysler cars skidded 18.3%,
while sales of the auto maker's trucks, minivans and Jeeps
fell 22%.
   Ford posted a 0.5% increase in domestic truck sales
largely attributed to a doubling in sales of the new Explorer
sport utility and discontinued Bronco II compact sport
utility vehicles. But the No. 2 auto maker's total car sales
fell 20.6% during the latest 10 days.
   GM's domestic car sales were off 19.2%, as the Cadillac
luxury division was the only one of five GM car divisions to
post a gain from a year ago. GM's domestic truck sales fell
11.3% in early June from a year earlier.
   Japanese auto makers who build and sell cars in the U.S.
continued to show gains over a year ago. Toyota Motor Corp.
boosted sales of its domestically built Camry and Corolla
models by 35%. Sales of Honda Motor Co.'s U.S.-built Accords
and Civics rose 30.8%.
   Nissan Motor Co. posted a 30.5% increase in domestic car
sales but reported a modest 1.1% gain in trucks.
   At Mitsubishi Motors Corp., sales of U.S.-made cars jumped
59%, largely reflecting low production a year ago.
   ---
           RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a
                                                                                                       

                                    1990       1989     x-%
                                 Jun 01-10  Jun 01-10   Chg.
                                                                                                       

   GM total vehicles ............ 113,081    152,910  - 16.8
     Domestic car ...............  71,810    100,017  - 19.2
     Imported car ...............   4,349      5,842  - 16.3
       Total car ................  76,159    105,859  - 19.1
     Domestic truck .............  36,906     46,789  - 11.3
     Imported truck .............      16        262  - 93.1
       Total truck ..............  36,922     47,051  - 11.7
                                                                                                       

   FORD total vehicles ..........  77,745    100,285  - 12.8
     Domestic car ...............  43,628     61,507  - 20.2
     Imported car ...............     933      1,636  - 35.8
       Total car ................  44,561     63,143  - 20.6
     Domestic truck .............  33,184     37,142  +  0.5
                                                                                                       

   CHRYSLER total veh ...........  40,745     57,402  - 20.1
     Domestic car ...............  19,186     25,924  - 16.7
     Imported car ...............   1,473      2,506  - 33.9
       Total car ................  20,659     28,430  - 18.3
     Domestic truck .............  19,866     27,624  - 19.1
     Imported truck .............     220      1,348  - 81.6
       Total truck ..............  20,086     28,972  - 22.0
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   TOYOTA domestic car ..........   3,842      3,202  + 35.0
                                                                                                       

   NISSAN total vehicles ........   3,439      3,447  + 12.2
     Domestic car ...............   1,517      1,308  + 30.5
     Domestic truck .............   1,922      2,139  +  1.1
                                                                                                       

   MAZDA domestic car ...........     728        667  + 22.8
                                                                                                       

   MITSUBISHI-c .................   1,180        835  + 59.0
                                                                                                       

   SUBARU domestic car ..........     212          0     ...
                                                                                                       

   ISUZU domestic truck .........     262          0     ...
                                                                                                       

   Total cars ................... 157,912    211,232  - 15.9
     Domestic ................... 151,157    201,248  - 15.5
     Imported ...................   6,755      9,984  - 23.9
                                                                                                       

   Total trucks .................  92,376    115,304  -  9.9
     Domestic ...................  92,140    113,694  -  8.8
     Imported ...................     236      1,610  - 83.5
                                                                                                       

   Total domestic veh ........... 243,297    314,942  - 13.1
                                                                                                       

   Total vehicles ............... 250,288    326,536  - 13.8
                                                                                                       

   a-Totals include only vehicle sales reported in the
period.
   c-Domestic car
   x-There were 8 selling days in the most recent period and
9 a year earlier. Percentage differences based on daily sales
rate rather than sales volume.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   HUD: There's Turf,
   But There's No War
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Joe Davidson did a disservice to your readers and some
fine public servants in his article regarding an alleged
"messy turf war" at the Federal Housing Finance Board ("Messy
Turf War Frustrates New Housing Agency That's Supposed to
Help Lower-Income Buyers," Politics and Policy, April 17). He
implied that in the less-than-seven-month history of this
agency, actions and programs were mired down by infighting
between the Finance Board and HUD. I am happy to set the
record straight.
   First, the Finance Board is an agency that just came into
existence last October, just two months after the enactment
of FIRREA, the savings-and-loan bill. President Bush has
nominated two of the four board members -- Dan Evans as
chairman and Larry Costiglio as a board member. Both are
awaiting Senate confirmation. As provided by law, until the
confirmation of other board members, I, as HUD secretary,
serve as board chairman and have the legal responsibility to
exercise all duties and powers of the Finance Board until Mr.
Evans is confirmed as chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I was particularly disappointed by your characterization
of the status of our affordable-housing program, by which the
Federal Home Loan Banks are providing subsidized mortgages
for low- and moderate-income home buyers. In just four
months, the Finance Board published regulations for this
program that became effective March 2. This followed numerous
meetings with the Federal Home Loan Banks, interested
community and housing consumer organizations and
congressional staff over the scope and design of the program,
as well as administration-wide review and clearance. This is
about as fast as government rule-making can occur. Moreover,
each of the Federal Home Loan Banks has held several meetings
with its consumer advisory councils, member institutions and
others to get the word out about the availability of these
funds. Applications are rolling in, and we expect to approve
our first loans soon.
   The Finance Board has performed numerous other functions,
including assessing the banks for more than $1.5 billion of
funds for the thrift bailout, approving budgets and
establishing dividend policies for the banks and approving $3
billion to $5 billion every month in new mortgage money for
savings and loans nationwide.
   The Federal Housing Finance Board has an important
contribution to make toward this goal and, if I may say so,
is already well on its way to doing so. I trust your readers
will appreciate our efforts, and will not be influenced by
Mr. Davidson's erroneous conclusions, notwithstanding his
reportorial skills.
   Jack Kemp
   Secretary
   U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Harried Subway Riders Beg to Differ
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Michael Gartner's May 17 Viewpoint, "Subway Beggars Do
Have a Message: Desperation," sadly misapprehends the motives
of transit officials and the courts in restricting
panhandling -- and the stakes involved for our cities and
even the homeless themselves.
   For many of us who are struggling with the challenge of
making New York City and this region a more livable place
despite its density and congestion, it's "nice" to be
lectured to by someone who combines the perspectives of Ames,
Iowa, and New York network-news suites with a dash of Russian
imperial history. He rightly condemns our society's refusal
to address the underlying causes of homelessness, but implies
that subway begging is "saving the lives" and enshrining the
freedom of homeless people.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Regular transit patrons and most homeless people here and
in the nation's other cities know better: The accumulation of
destitute people in subways and transit terminals creates a
dangerous and uncertain existence for them and poses a real
threat to public health and safety. The intent of the transit
providers and the courts is not to render homelessness
invisible, but to recognize that all our citizens have rights
that must be balanced against one another when they come into
conflict.
   Agencies such as the Transit Authority and the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey understand that
attracting as many travelers as possible to subways and other
transit services is vital to the region's economic and
environmental health. We compete for those customers with
individual auto use and other private-transportation options,
and cannot succeed if transit patrons are subjected to
aggressive panhandling in the confined subway environment or
find that their transit terminals have become homeless
shelters of last resort. Transit patrons should not be
singled out to bear this burden while more well-heeled
citizens insulate themselves in cars, taxis and limousines.
   The Port Authority has underwritten onsite outreach
services to homeless people at our facilities and nearby
drop-in centers to connect them with social services and
safer shelter options. We work constantly to distinguish
between the desperate, who need shelter and care, and the
desperadoes, who intermingle with the homeless and make
transit facilities a home base for illicit activity.
   Most of the disadvantaged people we encounter do not
prefer the existence of panhandling in transit facilities
that Mr. Gartner so ardently champions. The underlying
objective of our court appeals is to protect the legitimate
rights of our customers while urging more appropriate
societal responses to the complex causes of homelessness. Mr.
Gartner's essay misses the mark. Transit agencies are not
trying, like Potemkin, to erect sham village facades, but to
protect the viability of real cities by providing attractive
public-transit services essential to their survival.
   Stephen Berger
   Executive Director
   The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey
   New York
   ---
   The odds are good that Mr. Gartner doesn't ride the
subways, which accounts for his comparison between the
well-dressed solicitors from organized charities and the
"crippled . . . disheveled . . . wild-eyed" people who beg in
the subways.
   As a commuter-rider on the subways I want to assure him
that they do more than merely beg. They smell very bad. They
lie not only on seats in stations but also full length in the
cars. Many of them urinate and defecate among those not
fortunate enough to be driven in corporate limousines,
sheltered to formulate their preachments.
   I would have expected Mr. Gartner, as president of NBC
News, not to culminate his "bien pensant" exercise by going
off the rails: Banning begging on the subways doesn't render
them artificial Potemkin shows; it leaves them as real as
they've always been.
   Raoul Gersten
   New York
   ---
   Mr. Gartner is half-right in arguing that we should not
ban beggars in the subways if we allow solicitors for
organized charities. Ban them all -- pro-choice, pro-life,
pro-wildlife, pro-zoo. Subways and sidewalks are for moving
people, not for harassing them. If one wants to contribute --
with reasonable assurance that it is not for drugs -- there
are places called churches, temples, mosques, etc., and if
one prefers to support efficient, nonsectarian community
assistance, there are organizations called United Way or
United Fund.
   Jack H. Hamilton
   Philadelphia
   ---
   Give me a break, Mr. Gartner. Catherine the Great was
passing through Potemkin Village; I live in New York. I need
to ride the subway, but I use it less and less. In the days
when I paid five cents, I was sure of getting to my
destination without breakdown, harassment, violence, filth or
fear. Now I pay $1.15 and wonder if I will get where I am
going and in one piece. I worry that the subway will never
again function as safe, dependable transportation, and you
want to use it for social welfare]
   As a child, I adored standing in the first subway car
peering through the door window fascinated by the changing
lights, the sinuous lines of track in the darkness and the
rushing movement of the train. I still love train rides and
take pride in New York having the only subway system that
functions 24 hours a day and over the longest distances. At
the same time, I use the buses much more while deploring the
traffic congestion, exhaust fumes and the swarms of buses
from the boroughs carrying people at $4 who once rode the
subways but will no longer do so.
   I probably feel about beggars in the subway as you would
about beggars in the lobby and halls of NBC. Perhaps we can
get a great constitutional scholar to work on that one.
   Barbara Gautier
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   You Could Get Hoist
   On the `Common Good'
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   In your May 15 editorial "Community Standards Elevated"
you hail Judge Frank Altimari's opinion that begging in the
subway "often amounts to nothing less than assault" on
passengers. I don't know if you or the appeals judges
actually ride the subways, but as a daily passenger I can say
with total honesty that I've never felt "assaulted" or
endangered by beggars. Annoyed, often; depressed, always; but
assaulted, never.
   I'll tell you what does scare me a little: It's the notion
of "common good." You're quick to raise this banner against a
class of people you dislike, but think what might happen if
it fell into the wrong hands, especially the hands of certain
"L"-type people. Tougher emission standards, compulsory car
pooling, seizure of warehoused apartments, more affirmative
action, universal health insurance, all for the "common
good." Is it really worth opening such a Pandora's box just
to throw a few beggars out of the subway?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I've always admired your deft, totally unembarrassed use
of double standards; it's one reason I find your editorials
so much fun. But be careful how you handle principles, they
may backfire.
   Tim Aurthur
   Long Island City, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Deadlock on Lithuania Is Broken at Talks;
   Supreme Soviet Compromises on Economy
   ---
   Parliament and Ryzhkov
   Strike Face-Saving Deal
   On Transition to Market
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- The Soviet Parliament told the government to
refine its controversial economic reform program by
September, but agreed to let President Mikhail Gorbachev
introduce many of its key provisions by decree over the
summer.
   The decision amounts to a face-saving compromise for Prime
Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov, who ran into a storm of criticism
last month over his plans to establish a more market-oriented
economy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although the government will now have its work cut out to
make the measures more palatable to the general public, the
Supreme Soviet broadly endorsed the thrust of the program and
some of its major steps in a seven-point resolution.
   "The most important thing is that we can start work," said
a relieved Leonid Abalkin, a deputy prime minister who
drafted most of the government's original proposals. They
include plans for selling off state assets to the public,
creating a Western-style banking system, breaking up
industrial monopolies and gradually freeing some prices from
government control. Many of the measures are to take effect
next year.
   Mr. Ryzhkov was sharply criticized from all sides last
month when he introduced his package, principally because it
emphasized steep price rises for basic foodstuffs and gave
only scant details of other measures. The price-rise
announcement triggered a round of panic buying by consumers,
and Mr. Ryzhkov's political future seemed highly uncertain.
   The Soviet premier now appears to have weathered the worst
of the storm, however, thanks to skillful political
maneuvering. Soviet officials say Mr. Ryzhkov's aides played
an important role in persuading parliamentary committees to
strike a conciliatory tone. They even had a big hand in
drafting the text of the resolution that the Parliament
adopted yesterday.
   Some changes have been made to the original Ryzhkov plans.
For one thing, the idea of holding a referendum on the
economic package has now been dropped. Instead, the
government and Parliament agree that there should be some
public discussion of the measures, but are leaving it to
local authorities to specify what form they should take.
   The government must also still win backing for its plans
to raise bread prices this summer. It initially proposed
tripling the price on July 1 in an effort to reduce wasteful
consumption and cut back on grain imports. Parliament is
considering whether to endorse the increase, but postponed a
decision until today. During the debate, several deputies
made emotional speeches about the need to keep down the price
of bread, which has remained unchanged for almost 30 years
under the Soviet system of state-set prices.
   The Kremlin is promising that any price increases will be
largely compensated by cash payments to the population from
the government budget. Although the price rises will be
mandatory, Parliament agreed to leave the exact decisions on
compensation to local authorities in the 15 constituent
republics.
   According to Mr. Abalkin, the government is obliged by a
parliamentary resolution adopted last year to gain approval
for any price rises taking effect this year. But beginning in
1991, the government will be able to push through price rises
without the support of lawmakers.
   While Mr. Ryzhkov and his aides fine tune their economic
proposals, Mr. Gorbachev could decide to take the initiative
and introduce many key measures over the summer. The
Parliament agreed to empower the Soviet president to
introduce new legislation by decree on such important issues
as denationalization of state property, establishing stock
ownership and breaking up industrial monopolies. His mandate
does not, however, extend to prices.
   (See related story: "Moscow Agrees to a Partial Lifting of
Its Blockade In a Sign Crisis Is Easing" -- WSJ June 14,
1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Prime Motor Alters
   Accord, Will Sell
   Franchise Systems
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   PDQ MNR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Prime Motor Inns Inc., seeking more cash to pay debt, said
it agreed to sell all of its Howard Johnson and Ramada
franchise systems rather than retain a 35% stake in them as
previously planned.
   Under the new accord, Prime will receive $170 million for
the two franchise systems from Blackstone Capital Partners
L.P., an investment partnership that is an affiliate of
Blackstone Group, a New York-based investment banking firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But although the new agreement calls for Prime to receive
about $40 million more, it will give up the 35% interest it
would have kept under the old agreement with Blackstone. With
about $60 million face amount in notes Prime would have
received, the initial transaction totaled about $200 million.
   However, a spokeswoman for Prime, based in Fairfield,
N.J., said the company values the 35% equity interest in the
franchise systems and the original note at considerably less
than $60 million.
   Peter E. Simon, Prime chairman, said the increased cash
payment will enable Prime to "significantly reduce" debt and
to invest some proceeds in its AmeriSuites and Wellesley Inns
limited service hotels, which it plans to expand.
   Prime is one of the largest U.S. hotel companies.
Including its Rodeway Inns International franchise system,
Prime has a total of about 1,100 properties with about
150,000 rooms. Those include 475 U.S. Ramada properties with
75,000 rooms and 450 Howard Johnson properties with about
55,000 rooms. The company also has more than $200 million of
construction projects under way.
   Prime, which expanded in a period of softness in the real
estate market and tight financing, has about $280 million in
bank debt. It is still owed about $200 million by FCD
Hospitality Inc., which last year borrowed from Prime to
purchase Servico, a hotel operator, from Southmark Corp.
   Officials of Prime have said that tomorrow is the cut-off
date for FCD to start paying back its loan before Prime would
start attaching assets. But Prime is still "evaluating"
alternatives, Joseph P. Gaynor III, senior vice president of
corporate finance, said. He said Prime is considering selling
Rodeway as well.
   Another reason Prime may have chosen to sell the
franchises outright was the interest a competing company,
Manor Care Inc., had expressed in them, said Henry R.
Silverman, Blackstone's general partner who will be chairman
and chief executive officer of the new company. Officials of
Manor Care, the Silver Spring, Md., franchiser of Quality
Inns, couldn't be reached for comment. Mr. Silverman is a
former chairman and chief executive of Days Inns of America
Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Junk Bond
   Players to Try
   Weekly Auction
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Money managers often complain about the
difficulty of buying and selling junk bonds. Now some of them
are doing something about it.
   A few major players in the junk bond market have signed up
to try an untested weekly auction of junk bonds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Scheduled to start a month from now, the auctions are the
brainchild of a one-man operation known as New York
Securities Auction Corp., or Nysac. Founded by 32-year-old
investment manager Joel Greenblatt, Nysac says it already has
attracted the attention of a number of heavy hitters
including Fidelity Investments, Mutual Shares Corp., Trust
Co. of the West, 1838 Investment Advisors L.P., Reliance
Standard Life Insurance Co. and others.
   Michael Price, who runs the successful Mutual Shares
mutual fund operation, said the new system will provide
another way in which he can search for good buys. "We're
going to try to pick up bargains in Nysac," he said.
   The auction bidding will take place via computer and will
be carried on the Bloomberg Financial System of electronic
terminals. Sellers can set a minimum price they'll accept,
much as an art owner might at a Sotheby's or Christie's sale.
   Mr. Greenblatt said the auctions should reduce the cost of
trading junk securities and make them easier to buy or sell.
Trading costs and the difficulty of finding trading partners
are sore points in the $200 billion junk-bond market.
   Unlike stocks, whose prices are widely disseminated, most
junk bonds are traded through brokers who set their own
prices. As a result, money managers complain that junk bond
brokers sometimes significantly overcharge customers for
their trades.
   "Right now, nobody really knows the true price of a junk
bond because of the huge spreads that brokers take on," said
Tom Mandel, a high-yield portfolio manager at 1838 Investment
Advisors. "There is a reasonable amount of deception that
goes on sometimes."
   It isn't unusual for junk bond traders to buy bonds from
sellers at one price and resell them at a price as much as
three or even four points higher, investors say. That is an
enormous spread. In the bond market, one point translates
into $10 for a bond with a $1,000 face value.
   With Nysac, junk securities will be auctioned at a cost of
perhaps 1/2 to 3/4 point paid by the buyer, Mr. Greenblatt
said. The first auction is planned for July 1618.
   Money managers are intrigued by the plan, though they
aren't sure how big the auctions will get. The auctions, they
say, will probably attract the more obscure and distressed
issues of high-yield junk. Less likely to appear are the
"good junk" bonds with such well-known names as Kroger and
Safeway, which trade at relatively small discounts from face
value; these are already easily sold through brokers. Junk
bonds that are actively traded on exchanges, such as those
issued by RJR Nabisco Inc., aren't expected to appear on
Nysac's auction list, either. Nysac said it won't bid on
securities or carry positions.
   "The greatest use of this system will be during times of
real distress when the junk bond market shuts down and stops
functioning," said Howard Marks, a managing director at Trust
Co. of the West and a big buyer of junk bonds. "Maybe this
will keep things flowing. It certainly can't hurt."
   Mutual Shares' Mr. Price said of Mr. Greenblatt: "This is
a bright young man who is making a serious attempt to try
something new. He doesn't know whether it will work, but he's
trying to bring an alternative."
   Money managers appear eager to try the new system, which
they said could serve in some cases as an alternative to
trading through brokerage firms. They said the auctions would
help "open up" the junk bond market, where the government
wants to see price information become more readily available.
   Mr. Greenblatt isn't exactly a household name on Wall
Street. He is a managing partner of Gotham Capital in New
York, an investment firm where he says he manages a $40
million hedge fund. Prior to joining Gotham, he was a general
partner at Halcyon Investments.
   The securities up for auction, he says, will appear weekly
in an advertisement placed in Barron's, a magazine published
by Dow Jones &amp; Co., which also publishes this newspaper.
Beside appearing on Bloomberg, Mr. Greenblatt said, the list
probably will run on other electronic services in the future.
   A bit of skepticism was voiced by Kingman Penniman, a
senior vice president at McCarthy, Crisanti &amp; Maffei, an
investment research firm. He likes the concept but would
prefer a "completely open" auction where the best bid wins,
even if it's below the minimum asking price.
   In addition to junk bonds, Nysac hopes to auction other
"illiquid" securities including obscure investment-grade
corporate bonds, low-priced Pink Sheets stocks and certain
stocks and warrants that trade on the National Association of
Securities Dealers Automated Quotations System, or Nasdaq.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Rescue of Satellite
   By Space Agency
   To Cost $90 Million
   ---
   For Hire: Shuttle Endeavour,
   Crew of Five Included;
   If Interested, Call NASA
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ORBI GM GMH
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The International Telecommunications
Satellite Organization said it would pay NASA about $90
million to retrieve a stranded telecommunications satellite
and boost it into higher orbit.
   The rescue is scheduled for February 1992, said the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, during the
first flight of a new space shuttle, called Endeavour.
According to the plan, the shuttle will snag the Intelsat-6
satellite with its robot arm and bring it into the shuttle's
cargo bay. There astronauts will attach a new rocket motor
that the shuttle will lug into space. The satellite then will
be lifted out of the shuttle and sent into an orbit 22,300
miles above the Earth.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The mission recalls the glory days of the shuttle, before
the Challenger disaster, when NASA retrieved or repaired four
satellites and expected to make a business out of it. But
NASA's plans have changed drastically since then -- the
shuttle flies far less frequently than hoped for, and it
doesn't carry commercial cargoes -- so the planned retrieval
probably won't be a precursor to other work.
   But NASA was happy to accept the Intelsat offer anyway.
Space Shuttle Director Robert Crippen said the mission would
help NASA in planning for the construction in space of its
proposed orbiting space station. It would also "once again
demonstrate the versatility of the space shuttle," he said.
   Intelsat, a global telecommunications consortium, began
investigating the possibility of a retrieval after a Martin
Marietta Corp. rocket boosted the $157 million satellite into
a useless orbit in March. Martin Marietta later said it had
messed up the wiring on its $115 million Titan III booster.
   Intelsat, which had self-insured the project, said that
retrieving the satellite would be cheaper than building and
launching a new one. The telecommunications organization said
that it expects the reboosted satellite, which will carry
telephone calls, television and computer data, to last 10
years.
   The Intelsat decision was a setback for Orbital Sciences
Corp., a Fairfax, Va., rocket company that had hoped to sell
Intelsat one of its satellite rocket motors and had
publicized a prospective rescue mission. Instead, Intelsat
chose a motor built by Hughes Aircraft Co., the General
Motors Corp. subsidiary that built the satellite.
   NASA charges $150 million for cargo that fills up the
entire shuttle bay. The space agency said it figured that the
satellite rocket motor would take up about 60% of the shuttle
cargo, resulting in a charge of between $90 million and $97
million. That pricing scheme has long been controversial with
commercial space advocates. They say it underestimates the
true cost of operating the space shuttle, which they put at
about $350 million, and represents unfair competition.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Elsevier N.V. Plans
   To Sell 33% Stake
   In Wolters Kluwer
   ----
   By Bob Hagerty
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   N.ELS N.WOK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Elsevier N.V. said it intends to sell its 33% stake in a
rival Dutch publisher, Wolters Kluwer N.V.
   Based on the current market price, Elsevier's 17.8 million
nonvoting certificates, representing Wolters Kluwer shares
held by a trust, are valued at a total of 926 million
guilders ($485 million). Elsevier's finance director,
Cornelis Alberti, said the proceeds would be used for
acquisitions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Alberti said that the sale, subject to "satisfactory
market conditions," is likely to take place in September and
that Elsevier hopes to sell the certificates at a price near
the stock market level. Elsevier named Swiss Bank Corp. as
the lead manager for the offering, which is expected to be
aimed at a wide international distribution of the
certificates.
   The Elsevier stake stems from a hostile takeover bid the
company made for Kluwer BV in 1987. Kluwer responded by
rushing into a defensive merger with Wolters Samsom Groep
N.V. to form the current Wolters Kluwer. Elsevier's
consolation prize was a 33% stake in Wolters Kluwer, for
which it paid about 575 million guilders.
   Since then, Elsevier has pursued close cooperation or a
merger with Wolters Kluwer, but the latter company has
repeatedly rebuffed the advances. Because the certificates
carry no voting rights, Elsevier's stake gave it very little
influence. Nor were the financial rewards high: Elsevier
collected about 19 million guilders of dividend income from
Wolters Kluwer last year, producing a return of about 2% on
the market value of the investment.
   Elsevier's Mr. Alberti said his company decided to sell
because of that low return and because it had failed to bring
about cooperation. But he said Elsevier remains interested in
closer ties with Wolters Kluwer, and even in the possibility
of an eventual merger. Once Elsevier no longer carries the
"big stick" of a 33% stake, he suggested, Wolters Kluwer
might be more inclined to discuss cooperation.
   Wolters Kluwer's chairman, Mijndert Ververs, hasn't ruled
out the possibility of joint ventures with Elsevier, but he
said yesterday that he was pleased with Elsevier's decision
to sell its stake.
   Elsevier, which had 1989 sales of 1.96 billion guilders,
specializes in scientific, professional and trade
publications and owns several Dutch newspapers. Wolters
Kluwer, whose 1989 sales totaled 1.88 billion guilders, is a
specialist in legal and tax publications.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Viewpoint:
   Israel's Democratic Image vs. the Harsh Truth
   ----
   By Alexander Cockburn
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   There are two Israels. One is the Israel of the Hasbara,
the Hebrew word "explanation," indicating the system designed
to project Israel's image to the outside world, most
importantly the U.S. The other is the Israel that actually
exists. The former is a democratic polity seeking
accommodation with trustworthy Palestinians, tolerant in the
manner of the public image of Teddy Kollek or Abba Eban. The
latter is a state committed to a Greater Israel, set upon the
permanent suppression and/or eviction of Palestinians,
offering one law for Jews and another for non-Jews, unwilling
from the founding of the state to make anything other than
temporary accommodation with the outside world.
   How long can the fiction of the first be maintained? Even
the cosmetic powers of the Hasbara are being strained by the
composition of the latest Israeli cabinet formed by Yitzhak
Shamir. It is clear that this is a cabinet replete with
people openly committed to holding the territories forever in
a colonial status.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The main priority of this new government is to bring in
Russian Jews. Mass emigration from the Soviet Union has been
greeted exuberantly in Israel as the solution to what is
officially called "the demographic problem," the euphemism
for the view that a Greater Israel would contain too many
Palestinians. The racist assumptions are very striking though
normally unquestioned in polite political society. Even the
"dovish" Labor government once proposed a program to
"Judaize" the Galilee. An analogy here would be a political
plan to Christianize New York.
   The U.S. posture is more hypocritical. For years the U.S.
has called on the Soviet Union to permit Jewish emigration,
when there was less fear of persecution. Now that Russian
Jews do have justifiable fear of persecution, the U.S.
restricts the quota permitted entry here and, in effect,
forces the refugees to go to Israel. Israel says the new
arrivals are not going to the West Bank. But thousands are
settling in East Jerusalem, the Arab sector once held by
Jordan. Even the U.S. doesn't recognize Israel's annexation
of East Jerusalem. The U.S. should let Russian Jews go where
they wish -- mostly to the U.S.
   Palestinians such as recent hungerstriker Faisal Husseini
say they are happy to see Jews escape persecution, but not to
come to the former Palestine from which Palestinians have
been expelled and to which they are not permitted to return.
   Hardly were the Palestinians murdered by Ami Popper on May
20 cold in the morgue before Steven Emerson had rushed an
article to this newspaper proclaiming that the "values and
conscience" of Israeli leaders had been splendidly deployed
in the wake of the killings. In my column May 31 I provided
several examples of political realities in Israel and the
occupied territories, very much at odds with Mr. Emerson's
mellow portraiture.
   In his June 4 letter, Mr. Emerson asserted flatly that I
misrepresented reports in Ha'aretz and statements by major
Israeli politicians. Did the celebration of the 13th
anniversary of the Elkana settlement on the West Bank,
attended by important Israelis, have anything to do with
Rabbi Moshe Levinger, head of the Gush Emunim (religious
zealots for settlement of the territories) and convicted of
killing a Palestinian shopkeeper, for which he went to prison
after the Elkana celebration? Mr. Emerson says there was no
such account in the Hebrew daily Ha'aretz for May 18 and the
Elkana celebration had nothing to do with Rabbi Levinger.
   A substantial part of Gideon Levi's report in Ha'aretz
that day concerned the cordial relations visible at Elkana
between senior officials and Rabbi Levinger. "Who didn't
embrace Levinger?" the reporter asked rhetorically. "The
general commanding the central sector {of Israel and the
territories -- i.e., Gen. Yitzhak Mordecai} shook the hand of
the criminal rabbi warmly, the head of the civilian
administration winked at him with great affection, the
commander of Judea and Samaria spoke to him in friendly
fashion. Yes, he's one of the boys, Levinger, among the
senior commanders of the Israeli army." Mr. Levi noted the
presence of President Chaim Herzog, wearing the symbolic
headwear of chauvinist ultra-right orthodoxy and referring to
Palestinians around the settlement as "foreigners."
   Mr. Emerson implies in his letter, though does not state
flatly, that Rabbi Moshe Neriya was not quoted in Ha'aretz
for May 13 as enjoining every Jew "to shoot Arabs left and
right without thinking and without hesitating." But that is
precisely what the Ha'aretz for that day reported him as
saying. Mr. Emerson slyly substitutes a more decorous
statement by the rabbi after the Popper killings, in the
weekly Kol Ha'ir for May 25. The day after Popper opened
fire, an article by Shulamit Hareven, a respected novelist
and essayist, appeared in Yediot Ahronot, the
largest-circulation Hebrew-language newspaper. "You, Mr.
Levinger," Ms. Hareven wrote, "have allowed the shedding of
the blood of those . . . who stood in the road near Rishon
when you said `I am sorry I did not have the privilege of
killing an Arab' . . . You, Moshe Tzvi Neriya, have allowed
the shedding of the blood of the Arab day workers when you
said . . . that `one should shoot right and left.' "
   Part of my argument was that Popper's killing spree had
rationality, given the rhetoric of Israeli extremists, from
Mr. Shamir down. Ms. Hareven seems to be making the same sort
of point. Mr. Emerson does not like it when the extremism of
such "respectable" figures as Binyamin Netanyahu, deputy
foreign minister, is cited, with his support for mass
deportation of Palestinians. But that is exactly what Mr.
Netanyahu advocated, as quoted in the journal Hotam on Nov.
24, 1989: "Israel should have exploited the repression of the
demonstrations in China, when world attention focused on that
country, to carry out mass expulsions among the Arabs of the
territories. Regrettably, there was no support for this
policy, which I put forward then and still recommend."
   Mr. Emerson claims I believe the Israeli government is
plotting "to exterminate" Palestinians. I believe nothing of
the sort. I think Israeli policy is to maintain effective
control over the territories, with some politicians saying
the ultimate answer is transfer. This transfer-expulsion --
is being seriously raised as a policy option.
   I cited the courageous Israeli human-rights activist
Israel Shahak and Mr. Emerson responded by comparing him to
Lyndon LaRouche. This is a fair example of Mr. Emerson's
tastes in polemic, suggesting equivalence between Prof.
Shahak, a concentration-camp survivor, and Mr. LaRouche,
whose movement has been stained with anti-Semitism. Many
people in this country, including scores in congressional
offices, admire Prof. Shahak's integrity and courage. He
appears frequently in the mainstream Israeli press, which
treats him with respect. With his slur, Mr. Emerson dishonors
only himself.
   Mr. Emerson's prime role is to whitewash Israeli
governments and revile their critics. Joel Green of Toronto
also wrote an attack directly to me, at the same time as Mr.
Emerson. He opened the rebuke, "I was very happy to hear the
news of your mother's death." In truth, I prefer the demented
passion of Mr. Green to the shabby truth-tampering of Mr.
Emerson.
   ---
   Mr. Cockburn is a columnist for The Nation and the
Anderson Valley (Calif.) Advertiser.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Moody's Downgrades
   Ratings on Security
   Pacific, Wells Fargo
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   SPC WFC
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it lowered
its ratings on debt of two of the nation's biggest banks,
Security Pacific Corp., Los Angeles, and Wells Fargo &amp; Co.,
San Francisco, because of worries about real estate and
leveraged buy-outs.
   The rating concern downgraded five Security Pacific debt
issues or securities, including its rating on the company's
senior debt to single-A-1 from double-A-3. In all, $7.4
billion in Security Pacific's parent-company securities and
debt issues are affected. Moody's also reduced its ratings on
certain debt of several Security Pacific subsidiaries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moody's downgraded $3.2 billion in Wells Fargo debt and
securities, among them senior debt, which went to single-A-1
from double-A-3. Moody's also lowered its rating on some debt
of Wells Fargo subsidiaries.
   Moody's, citing softening in the California real estate
market, said both Security Pacific and Wells Fargo may have
to boost reserves for real estate losses. And it said both
companies may be exposed to losses from lending on leveraged
buy-outs; several buy-outs have fallen apart lately, because
their debt loads proved too high. In a leveraged buy-out, a
small group of investors acquires a company largely with debt
that ultimately is paid with funds generated by the acquired
company.
   Officials of Security Pacific and Wells Fargo couldn't be
reached to comment on the Moody's actions.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Security Pacific shares closed at $40.375, down 75 cents, and
Wells Fargo shares closed at $81.625, off $2.375.
   Robert Smith, president and chief executive officer of
Security Pacific, said the banking concern "strongly
disagrees" with Moody's lowering of its debt. "We have
maintained a well-balanced loan portfolio consistent with
demands of the marketplace, and with adequate and appropriate
levels of reserves." Wells Fargo couldn't be reached for
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Black Gay Men
   Found to Continue
   AIDS-Risk Activity
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Despite widespread knowledge about AIDS,
high levels of risky sexual behavior persist among black gay
and bisexual men, according to a survey.
   The study, sponsored by the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control, raises fresh concern about the adequacy of education
programs designed to halt the spread of the epidemic among
minorities, who are at extreme risk of the disease due to
factors related to poverty and drug use.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Of 132,510 cases of AIDS reported to CDC through April
1990, 36,682 cases or more than one-fourth were among blacks
-- a burden far exceeding their slice of the population at
large.
   Of 952 black gay and bisexual men in the survey, nearly
all (97%) understood how the virus is spread, through sexual
and blood contact. However, only half of the respondents said
they always or almost always engage in safer sex practices,
such as condom use.
   Moreover, a third of the respondents said they sometimes
engage in sex with women. Of this group, only 20% regularly
use a condom, according to the survey. The findings follow
reports earlier this spring about the problem of behavioral
"relapse" from safer-sex among gay men at large.
   "While they've heard the message of AIDS, it hasn't
translated into safe-sex behavior all the time," said study
director Reggie Williams, executive director of the National
Task Force on AIDS Prevention of the National Association of
Black and White Men Together.
   Mr. Williams said he hoped the study would serve as a spur
to fund more aggressive programs of outreach and education,
designed to reach minority populations. Few of the survey
respondents were aware, for example, that blacks die of AIDS
at a five times faster rate than do whites, he said.
   "Education programs need to be targeted to the black gay
and bisexual communities," he said. "We hope that will help
them to do what they need to do to save their lives."
   Drug use and unsafe behavior are closely intertwined, the
survey confirmed, with 6.5% of respondents saying they
regularly use cocaine, crack cocaine or heroin during sex.
About 4% said they had shared needles, and 30% have had
unprotected sex, with someone now known to carry the virus.
   As a result, there was a high level of AIDS anxiety among
respondents, and it is well-founded. Almost 60% of
respondents said they had been tested for antibodies to the
AIDS virus, and almost one-third of those tested positive.
About 6.5% of men in the survey are currently diagnosed with
AIDS or AIDS-related complex, a precursor condition.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Forget the Oils] What You Want Is a Photo
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In any booming market, a rising tide lifts all
boats, even the leaky ones.
   But with the froth off the art market (anywhere from 20%
to 45% of the paintings went unsold at recent auctions),
dealers, auction houses and the rest of the art-selling
industry are retooling for a climate in which sales are
harder to come by.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the stock market, when the blue chips are topped out,
brokers scurry to find "undervalued" stocks. Similarly, art
dealers and auction houses are gearing up aggressive
marketing campaigns to attract attention, cash and cachet for
"undervalued" sectors of the art market.
   Samuel Pennington, editor of the "Maine Antique Digest,"
said it's a "fallacy" to think there's a single art market
that "is like the stock market and goes up or down." He
argued that several separate markets exist, some sagging,
like plain blanket chests and other country furniture that
were trendy in the early 1980s, while others, like antique
toys, surge.
   Said Christopher Burge, president of Christie's
International PLC's big U.S. auction house, "It's really 40
little separate businesses that we run."
   So what's trendy?
                                                                                                       

   ANTIQUITIES
                                                                                                       

   Perhaps Sotheby's Holdings Inc.'s greatest expectations
for the next trendy sector are Greek and Roman antiquities --
marble and bronze statues and vases roughly 2,000 years old.
   It's no accident that the New York-based auction house has
gone to great lengths to generate excitement over its sale
next week of the antiquities collections of William and
Nelson Hunt, the onetime Dallas billionaire brothers whose
businesses have been in bankruptcy-law proceedings. One of
the highlights is a Roman bronze of a naked youth from the
second century A.D. estimated to sell for as much as $1.2
million. All told, Sotheby's estimates that the Hunts'
antiquities and ancient coins will fetch $20 million.
   "We've trucked {the Hunt collections} all over the world,"
said John Marion, chairman of Sotheby's North America and its
chief auctioneer. He said Sotheby's is counting on
"crossover: People interested in antique cars might be in
antiquities."
   Wall Street also is betting on an antiquities boom.
Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., which launched an "Athena II" art
limited partnership in October 1988, has invested roughly $5
million of the proceeds in antiquities, purchasing well over
100 vases, small bronzes and marble sculptures, according to
Frank J. Carr, the partnership's chief investment officer.
   Look at "the prices being paid for paintings, and look at
2,000-year-old, extremely rare antiquities; the prices are a
fraction," said Mr. Carr. "We see a catching-up. It's an
undervalued situation." Next week's Hunt sale, he said, will
be "very positive for the industry" because it will "focus
attention" on the market.
   Asher Edelman, the Wall Street raider and well-known
collector of modern art, is a principal backer of a New
York-based antiquities gallery, Daedalus Gallery, that opened
late last year. He declined to comment.
   But antiquities collecting has its pitfalls. Fakes are
rampant, and pieces are difficult to authenticate. This area,
more than some others, "takes a lot of research," warned
Sotheby's Mr. Marion.
                                                                                                       

   PHOTOGRAPHY
                                                                                                       

   The willingness of museums like New York's Museum of
Modern Art and of corporations like Ford Motor Co. to take
photography seriously as an art form has given a tremendous
boost to prices of photographs. So has the controversy
surrounding the work of the late photographer Robert
Mapplethorpe.
   According to "The Photograph Collector" newsletter, asking
prices for works by prominent photographers ranging from
$1,000 to $100,000 aren't uncommon. They have replaced the
$100 to $1,000 asking prices of the early 1980s.
   For example, of the 43 top lots offered at Sotheby's,
Christie's and New York's Swann Galleries in a series of
photography sales late last year, all but three sold over
their highest pre-sale estimates. A handful of them sold at
double or triple their estimates, with a record $396,000 paid
for a group of 21 prints by Alfred Stieglitz. But it's still
an affordable market for the novice collector, with many
high-quality prints selling for less than $20,000.
   Other photographers whose works have appreciated rapidly
over the last decade include Man Ray, Margaret Bourke-White,
William Wegman and Cindy Sherman. The most sought-after
photographs are those printed during the artist's lifetime as
part of a signed, limited edition.
                                                                                                       

   TOYS
                                                                                                       

   While toys are technically collectibles, rather than fine
art, their recent rate of appreciation has more in common
with Picasso than Depression glassware.
   Dale Kelley, publisher of Antique Toy World magazine,
said, "In the last three years, it's gone crazy. Everything
is hot."
   A rare, German-made bisque doll from 1909 sold for
$170,000. At the lower end of the market, "The Game of the
Man in the Moon," a board game manufactured in 1901, sold for
$4,600 at the Skinner auction house in Bolton, Mass. Dealers
say prices of turn-of-the-century cast-iron toys, banks and
robots are escalating most sharply.
   Part of the frenzy of the toy market may be caused by the
unusual tactics of one of its dealers, Alexander Galleries.
Instead of the typical genteel auctions, the New York-based
gallery has held successful sales at which, at the sound of a
whistle, potential buyers race across the room to affix
stickers to photos of toys that have already been marked with
prices. The most recent sale of this type raised $1.3 million
for 982 toys, with a top price of $125,000 paid for a fire
engine made in 1870.
   ---
   But as some sectors of the art market heat up, others are
cooling off. Here's what's isn't trendy:
                                                                                                       

   CONTEMPORARY ART
                                                                                                       

   Contemporary paintings and sculptures, generally
considered to be art produced in the post-war period, have
been primarily bought by U.S. collectors. But dealers said
U.S. collectors have grown more conservative recently. At a
series of contemporary-art auctions last month, roughly
one-third of the paintings and sculptures failed to find
buyers.
   Again and again, collectors and dealers proved willing to
buy pieces in the low six figures, but balked at crossing the
$1 million threshold for established artists like Willem de
Kooning, Richard Diebenkorn and Morris Louis. Moreover, the
sheer volume of works on the market by comic-book stylist Roy
Lichtenstein and pop-art master Andy Warhol tended to
undercut the prices their lesser works fetched. And artists
now viewed as derivative, Donald Sultan, for example, whose
giant flowers seem reminiscent of Mr. Warhol, didn't find
takers at the expected prices.
                                                                                                       

   IMPRESSIONIST, MODERN
                                                                                                       

   In the impressionist and modern painting sectors, the
standard against which all others are measured, there's been
a slowdown in the 30%-plus annual rate of appreciation. That
is likely to result in a shakeout of art-market speculators
accustomed to making big profits from quick resales of
artworks.
   The record prices set by a handful of true masterpieces
may have obscured the market's softening. But the same week a
painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir sold for $78.1 million at
Sotheby's, more than a dozen other Renoirs came on the block.
The more pedestrian Renoirs of fleshy, red-cheeked women sold
for far less than their estimates, or didn't sell at all.
Similarly, so many Marc Chagalls have surfaced at auction
that buyers could afford to be choosy.
   Collectors have tired of sun-dappled garden scenes by
second-rate painters such as Henri Le Sidanier or sketches of
Parisian streets by Maurice Utrillo. Even for impressionist
masters, increasingly selective buyers bypassed
poorer-quality Camille Pissarros and Alfred Sisleys or paid
prices $200,000 or so below the auction-house estimates.
   Prices for works by American impressionists, which had
benefited handsomely from the run-up in prices of their
French counterparts, also appear to be leveling off. At
recent auctions, works by Childe Hassam and Frederick
Frieseke have failed to sell.
                                                                                                       

   SOVIET ART
                                                                                                       

   Two years ago, when Sotheby's held an auction in Moscow of
120 works of contemporary Soviet art, several of the
paintings and sculptures sold for double or triple their
six-figure estimates. Only 5% of the works didn't sell.
   The sale energized the market for Soviet art, which
swiftly became all the rage, with nearly a dozen New York
galleries showcasing it in the past year. But more recent
auctions of East-bloc art have met with a chillier response.
Concerns about the fakes rampant in the difficult-to-document
field of early 20th-century avant-garde Soviet art and the
faddish nature of its recent popularity appear to have damped
interest.
   At an April auction of the works of Soviet avant-garde
artists, early 20th-century masters deemed to be the cream of
the crop, buyers proved unwilling to bid in line with the
six-figure and seven-figure pre-sale estimates set by
Sotheby's. The estimates assumed that record prices would be
set for the artists.
   Similarly at Habsburg, Feldman Auctioneers Inc., the New
York arm of the Geneva-based auction gallery, 56 of the 121
art works by contemporary Soviet artists up for bid last
month failed to sell. Moreover, with the death of premiere
Faberge egg collector Malcolm Forbes, that market, which
sometimes achieved its record prices as a result of Mr.
Forbes bidding directly against the Kremlin, is seen
softening.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West German Wholesale Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- West German wholesale prices
were up 0.3% in May from April, but they rose by just 0.2%
from May 1989, the Federal Statistics Office said.
   The year-to-year rate of increase was 0.6% in March and
0.1% in April.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said that the
index for wholesale prices (1985 equals 100) climbed to 95.3
in May, from 95.0 in April, and was up from 95.1 in May 1989.
   The wholesale price index is a volatile indicator on a
month-to-month basis. On a year-to-year basis, wholesale
prices had risen as high as 4.2% in November, before slipping
to as low as 0.6% on an annual basis in February and March,
helped by a steep decline in import prices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   S&amp;P Lowers Ratings
   On Debt of Household
   International Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   HI
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PROSPECT HEIGHTS, Ill. -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., citing
the "continued rapid growth" of Household International
Inc.'s "relatively weaker subsidiaries," lowered its ratings
on the approximately $9 billion in debt of the company's main
finance unit, Household Finance Corp.
   The rating concern said Household Finance is being
burdened by supporting the growth of "these weaker
operations," such as Household Bank, and the British
subsidiary HFC Bank PLC. Household Finance also has
"experienced diminished profitability, reduced loss-reserve
coverage and somewhat aggressive debt leverage," S&amp;P said.
Household International and Household Finance have an
agreement with thrift regulators to maintain 6% regulatory
capital at Household Bank, and "the downgrade at the bank
reflects the rating adjustment at Household Finance Corp.,"
S&amp;P said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   S&amp;P reduced its ratings on Household Finance's senior debt
to single-A-plus from double-A-minus; subordinated debt to
single-A from single-A-plus; preferred stock to single-A from
single-A-plus, and commercial paper to single-A-1 from
single-A-1-plus.
   Ratings on Household Bank's certificates of deposit were
lowered to what it listed as "single-A/A-" from
"single-A-plus/A-1," which wasn't explained and S&amp;P officials
weren't available to elaborate, and the Household Financial
Corp. unit's senior unsecured debt to single-A-plus from
double-A-minus.
   S&amp;P affirmed its ratings on Household International, the
parent company, one of the nation's biggest consumer finance
concerns.
   Household International said in a prepared statement that
it is disappointed with the ratings downgrades for its units.
"S&amp;P questioned the growth of Household Bank, which we view
as a strategic investment for future profitability," the
company said. It also disputed S&amp;P's statements that
profitability has diminished at Household Finance.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Household International shares closed at $52.625, up 25
cents.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   STANDARD &amp; POOR'S Corp. lowered its rating on certificates
of deposit of Household International Inc.'s Household Bank
unit to single-A/A-1 from single-A-plus/A-1. The new rating
was misstated in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ June 15, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Prudential-Bache Forces Tozer to Quit;
   Parent's Burton Named Vice Chairman
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Prudential-Bache Securities Inc., in an
attempt to turn its fortunes around, forced out its
president, W. James Tozer Jr., and named a veteran Prudential
Insurance Co. of America executive, Arthur H. Burton Jr., to
be vice chairman.
   This is Mr. Burton's second stint at the insurer's
Prudential-Bache brokerage unit. The 56-year-old executive
most recently was senior vice president and head of human
resources at Prudential; in 1988, he briefly was assistant to
Prudential-Bache's chairman and chief executive officer,
George Ball.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Prudential-Bache said in a statement that Mr. Tozer,
president for 16 months, resigned "to seek a management
challenge as a chief executive, probably in a
financial-service industry turnaround situation." But
Prudential-Bache executives privately said Mr. Tozer was
forced out to bolster the firm's profitability.
   Mr. Tozer, who had worked in the banking industry before
joining Prudential-Bache, couldn't be reached to comment.
Last year, Prudential-Bache, the nation's fourth-largest
securities firm with about 6,500 brokers, had a loss of $51
million.
   Mr. Burton will join Mr. Ball, the chief executive, and
James Gahan, president of Prudential-Bache Capital Funding,
as a member of Prudential-Bache's office of the chairman. In
his new post, Mr. Burton will oversee the firm's mutual
funds, risk arbitrage and administration operations.
   In an interview, Mr. Burton said his biggest challenge is
"regaining profitability" for the firm and pushing its staff
to be more efficient. He plans to do that by helping the firm
create products, including mutual funds. And he said he will
help promote the firm's selling more of its own mutual funds,
a recent trend among big securities firms.
   Last year, 65% of all funds sold by Prudential-Bache
brokers were those the firm itself manages. Prudential-Bache,
like most other securities firms, pays its brokers more for
selling in-house funds than outside portfolios.
Prudential-Bache is the nation's 11th-largest mutual-fund
manager, with assets of more than $35 billion.
   Mr. Burton joined Prudential in 1955. He was named
regional group manager in the Prudential's Eastern Home
Office in 1965. He also held several other posts at the
company, including a stint as president of North Central
operations, until he joined Prudential-Bache in 1988.
   In a memo to employees, Mr. Ball described Mr. Tozer as "a
valuable and hard working manager." Mr. Ball also said
Prudential-Bache won't fill the president's post.
   "Many businesses today are opting for this type of
structure to avoid barrierism of various kinds," Mr. Ball
said in the memo. He added, "There are no hidden agendas in
this."
   Separately, Prudential-Bache said its international group,
headed by William Custard, now will report to Leland Paton,
president of the Capital Markets group of Prudential-Bache
Capital Funding, which includes the global investment
banking, institutional and capital markets divisions of the
firm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Bank Clears
   $680 Million in Loans
   For Venezuela's Use
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The World Bank approved $680 million in
loans for Venezuela to support reforms of the country's
financial sector and efforts to convert public-sector
enterprises to private ownership.
   World Bank officials said $162.5 million may be used by
the Venezuelan government to support its debt-reduction
arrangements with commercial bank creditors. This is the
second time the bank has approved a set-aside of part of its
loans to Venezuela to support debt-reduction arrangements.
Last June, also at the request of the Venezuelan government,
it set aside about $187.5 million for debt-reduction out of
$755 million in economic adjustment credits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The World Bank said the newly authorized loans included
$350 million to facilitate the transfer of many
government-owned enterprises to private owners and to
restructure the operations of other public-sector companies.
   Another $300 million loan will support financial sector
reforms, including the privatization of several commercial
banks owned by the country's central bank. Venezuela's
Agricultural Development Bank will be liquidated. The
Industrial Bank, the country's largest public commercial
bank, and its four regional banks will be "restructured under
this operation," the World Bank said.
   A third credit, amounting to $30 million, will help
finance technical assistance projects to strengthen the
management of several Venezuelan government ministries
involved in government financial management and investment
policy-making decisions, the World Bank said.
   The loans are for 15 years and will carry a variable
interest rate, currently 7.75% a year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Panel Votes
   Foreign Operations
   Bill of $15.8 Billion
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM FREST EUROP AFRIC MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A House Appropriations subcommittee approved
a $15.8 billion fiscal 1991 foreign operations bill that
would cut U.S. military aid by 12.5% outside the Mideast and
substantially increase economic assistance to Africa and
Eastern Europe.
   More than $1.1 billion would be cut from President Bush's
budget for grants to finance military sales. And the measure
imposes new limits lowering U.S. military aid to Greece and
Turkey to 20% under current appropriations levels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Assistance for Eastern Europe would grow to about $500
million, or almost $200 million above the Bush
administration's request, and the Democratic-controlled panel
approved $800 million for sub-Saharan Africa, a 40% increase
above current funding.
   The Africa funding was combined with new restrictions
practically denying any direct funding to Zaire's Mobutu
regime. Elsewhere, the bill would significantly tighten a
prior congressional ban on the use of Export-Import Bank
financing for trade with Iraq.
   Within Central America, 50% of new military aid to El
Salvador would be withheld in an effort to promote a peace
settlement. And the bill requires that the U.S. withhold its
support for the World Bank in proportion to any bank loans
issued to China for non-basic human needs.
   Adopted on a party line 8-4 vote, the measure is sure to
face opposition from the administration. But committee
Republicans openly conceded their own frustration in crafting
an alternative package with the White House and State
Department. "There ain't nobody home," said Rep. Mickey
Edwards (R., Okla.). And more than any bill yet this year,
the drafting process reflected the tugs and pulls as
Washington attempts to adjust to a changing world.
   The fine print runs from $150,000 for a labor-statistics
program for the Soviets and Czechoslovakians to a University
of Chicago feasibility study to revive ancient irrigation
methods in the high plateaus of Bolivia. The African aid
reflects a major initiative by the House Black Caucus to
become more of a player in shaping foreign aid, while ethnic,
Midwest politics are a factor behind a provision urging the
West to forgive past loans to Poland.
   The fight over military aid is a harbinger of what is to
come on the defense budget, and U.S. arms contractors are
increasingly looking to foreign sales as military spending is
reduced at home. The administration had sought to increase
aid to more than $5 billion, and most of this assistance
would come in the form of direct grants. By comparison, the
proposed House bill would bring down U.S. aid to under $4.5
billion and distribute this under a less generous formula
that includes loans as well as grants.
   The foreign operations measure is the fourth of the major
fiscal 1991 spending bills to be drafted in the past week.
While no agreement has yet been reached on a final budget
resolution, the legislation set in motion in the House
already covers at least six executive departments as well as
space and environmental agencies.
   Bills for the Energy, State, Justice, and Commerce
Departments cleared the House Appropriations Committee
yesterday, and Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell said he
hoped that agreement could be reached on a provisional
resolution in the Senate to allow action there as well.
   As this pressure has built, there is continued concern in
the administration that the new spending ceilings set in the
varied appropriations bills will weaken the White House's
position in budget talks with Congress. Allocations approved
by the full House committee yesterday shift billions of
dollars from military accounts to housing and domestic
initiatives.
   And while Republican lawmakers complained, they also have
been among the most active in securing funds for everything
from home-state universities in Massachusetts and Michigan to
water projects in rural Kentucky.
   "Today is the high water mark. . . . reality will soon set
in," said Massachusetts Rep. Silvio Conte, the ranking
Republican on the House Appropriations panel. "Enjoy."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Mitsubishi Group,
   Daimler-Benz Form
   Aerospace Venture
   ---
   Companies Say Study Group
   To Plan Research Projects
   Is Only a `Starting Point'
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MHI G.DAI J.MIB
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Mitsubishi Group and Daimler-Benz AG are taking
the first steps to extend their nascent global cooperation
into aerospace.
   Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., the aerospace arm of the
giant Japanese industrial group, said it will set up a study
group with Daimler-Benz to conduct research in four areas:
small passenger planes, engines for those planes, space
technology and ultrasonic aircraft.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two industrial groups announced an agreement in March
to pursue cooperation in a wide range of industries,
including automobiles and semiconductors. This is the groups'
first joint effort in aerospace.
   A Mitsubishi Heavy spokesman, however, emphasized that the
latest agreement is only to form a study group that would map
out possible future projects. "This is only the starting
point," the spokesman cautioned. Whether the research would
immediately lead to broader cooperation in aerospace isn't
clear yet, he said. The spokesman said the two groups will
dispatch several engineers later to discuss topics for
research.
   There has been considerable speculation since the
cooperative agreement was announced that the two groups would
work to develop a small passenger plane. Mitsubishi Heavy's
chairman, Yotaro Iida, indicated in a recent interview that
the company's agreements with Boeing Co. governing joint
development of long-range passenger jets limits the Japanese
company's freedom to compete with Boeing in the market for
aircraft with 100 seats or more. That limit places greater
pressure on Mitsubishi, which is a relative newcomer to the
international aircraft market, to carve out a niche in the
area of small passenger jets.
   The two industrial giants are also considering research
into high-altitude, ultrasonic aircraft that could cut the
flight time between Japan, the U.S. and Europe.
   Daimler-Benz also has proposed cooperating with Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. in the international motor-vehicle market. The
West German conglomerate has asked Mitsubishi for equipment
to help construct an auto assembly plant it plans to build in
the Soviet Union and for technology for a small-truck plant
in East Germany.
   Mitsubishi Corp., the trading house that leads the
Mitsubishi Group, is setting up a department to handle
project development with the German conglomerate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Sununu Assumes
   An Added Role --
   Gorbachev Adviser
   ---
   Bush Chief of Staff to Travel
   To Moscow to Lend Hand
   In Setting Up Presidency
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Mikhail Gorbachev wants help setting up his
new office as president of the Soviet Union, so he's turning
for advice to an expert -- White House Chief of Staff John
Sununu.
   In an example of East-West cooperation that once would
have been unthinkable, Mr. Sununu plans to travel to Moscow
to help the Soviet leader figure out how to make his newly
created office at the head of the Soviet government work. Mr.
Sununu will advise the officials who run the office on
matters ranging from the mundane to the substantive, from how
the White House handles several million pieces of mail a year
to how it develops policies and courts legislators.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "They are structuring a new office, the office of the
presidency," Mr. Sununu said in an interview. "It is a brand
new function, in which a presidency will be responsive to all
the things that follow from political reform, a more
democratic structure with more responsibilities to the
citizens."
   The idea of an American president's top aide undertaking
such a mission "is amazing," Mr. Sununu acknowledged. "Never
in my wildest dreams a year ago would I have ever told you
that this kind of openness on all our parts" would be
unfolding.
   Mr. Gorbachev's need for such advice arose earlier this
year when the Soviets created a whole new post of president.
Mr. Gorbachev was elected to the job, in addition to his role
as general secretary of the Communist Party -- the position
from which real power traditionally has been wielded in
Moscow.
   Mr. Sununu and other administration aides already have
begun lending advice on the presidency to their Soviet
counterparts. As an outgrowth of conversations between
President Bush and Mr. Gorbachev during their recent
Washington summit meeting, a group of six Soviet officials
traveled to Washington this week to meet with Mr. Sununu,
other White House staffers and other U.S. officials to learn
how the White House operation works. President Bush met the
Soviets briefly, and they have been diving into the mechanics
of American presidential scheduling, communications systems
and staff organization.
   During the course of their meetings, the Soviet officials
asked Mr. Sununu and some of his assistants to pay a return
visit to Moscow soon to observe how they are putting their
lessons into practice in the Kremlin. Mr. Sununu indicated in
the interview that he intends to accept the invitation.
   Mr. Sununu said he hasn't decided when he will go to
Moscow. But he indicated that he wants to let enough time
pass for the Soviets to begin putting their new ideas into
action. "They want to begin to make some changes and get some
things in place so that part of what we can do is see how
they've done it, and see if there's anything we can
contribute by being there," Mr. Sununu said.
   It is particularly unusual that the Soviets turned for
help to Mr. Sununu, a hard-nosed conservative who is
considered the protector of Mr. Bush's right political flank.
But the Soviet interest in a Sununu mission suggests the
business of setting up a working presidency is deeply
important to Mr. Gorbachev.
   The Soviet leader views the creation of a strong
presidency as a key element in his plan to move the Soviet
Union toward a society run more by democratic government
institutions and less by a rigid Communist Party bureauracy.
   The Soviet legislature, itself fostered by Mr. Gorbachev,
established the post of president in March and elected Mr.
Gorbachev to fill the job on March 14. Soon after that, the
White House began getting feelers from the Soviets that they
might be interested in emulating the system used at 1600
Pennsylvania Avenue. Yuriy Dubinin, who until recently was
Soviet ambassador to the U.S., discussed the general idea
with Mr. Sununu about two months ago, and new Soviet
Ambassador Aleksandrovich Bessmertnykh raised the idea again
just before last month's Bush-Gorbachev summit.
   When Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev held a long day of
informal summit discussions at Camp David, Mr. Gorbachev
peppered his American counterpart with questions about how he
runs his office and stays on top of his job. Finally, Mr.
Gorbachev asked whether he could send some of his aides to
Washington for a first-hand look, and Mr. Bush agreed. This
week's meetings in Washington then led to the invitation to
Mr. Sununu to pay a return visit to Moscow.
   Mr. Sununu said he has been stressing that assembling a
staff capable of working together is as important as the
computer wizardry the White House uses to keep a president
informed. And he isn't ruling out the possibility that his
Kremlin counterparts may have a few suggestions of their own
when he visits Moscow. "I'll borrow a good idea from
anybody," Mr. Sununu said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Lynn Asinof
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAR LOANS get shorter, as lenders seek better credit
quality.
   Average length of a new bank car loan dropped to 51 months
in 1989, down from 53 months the previous two years, says the
Consumer Bankers Association. Having found that 60-, 66- or
72-month loans often leave people owing more than their cars
are worth, lenders have been pushing shorter loans. "There
has been some increase in repossessions and delinquencies,"
says Fritz Elmendorf of the CBA, who calls the trend "a
conservative reaction to controlling possible problems."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Loan length was "getting out of hand," says John Andrews
of General Motors Acceptance Corp., noting that the longer
loans were also keeping buyers out of the market for up to
six years. Sixty-month loans still dominate the market, he
says, but percentages are falling -- from 70% of all GMAC
loans in 1988 to 59% last year. "That is a tremendous drop in
one year," he says.
   Many lenders aggressively market leasing as car loan
interest deductibility phases out, says Jack Shipman of
Liberty National Bank, Louisville, Ky.
                                                                                                       

   FATHERS DAY GIZMOS range from the practical to the
extravagant.
   The Sharper Image in Pittsburgh says its hot seller this
Father's Day is a $40 mirror that attaches to the shower
head, allowing water to circulate behind the mirror to
prevent fogging. Also in demand: the $35 motorized tie rack,
which the store says is selling "like popcorn." Hammacher
Schlemmer in New York says it can't stock enough $115 Swiss
Army sunglasses, which feature a "unique torsion system" that
grips the head instead of the nose. But it has sold only two
of its $59,000 reproductions of a 1929 mahogany speedboat.
   Stress-reliever gifts are big sellers at Broadway, a Los
Angeles chain. Priced at $20, tear-apart dolls -- a baseball
umpire, football referee or golfer whose arms, legs and head
attach with Velcro -- allow Dad to vent his frustration while
watching Sunday sports. Another sports-viewing accessory: a
beer mug with a bell that can be rung for a refill. One
popular gift from Herrington Co., a Londonderry, N.H.,
catalog company: a $22.95 car wash/polish called Klasse that
replaces eight car-care compounds.
                                                                                                       

   OLD BATTERIES attract growing attention as an
environmental problem.
   In an effort to keep lead-acid batteries out of landfills
and incinerators, some 22 states have passed laws to
encourage recycling, says the Battery Council International.
Legislation is pending in five more states and at the federal
level. Some of the laws merely require retailers to take back
used batteries; others establish a deposit system. Currently
more than 80% of lead-acid batteries are recycled, says
Robert Garino of the Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries,
Washington.
   But household batteries -- which contain mercury or
cadmium -- are only just beginning to be recycled, says
William Brown of Waste Management Inc. David Cohen of Mercury
Refining Co., Latham, N.Y., says his company is signing "a
tremendous number" of contracts to begin accepting household
batteries. "It is a relatively small part of our business
now, but it could become a very large segment."
   Button-size batteries are the most profitable to recycle;
nickel-cadmium rechargeables are break-even, he says.
                                                                                                       

   UPSIDE-DOWN LABELS will appear on beer bottles shipped
from Dock Street Brewing Co., Philadelphia, this month to
protest import duties on American beer. Noting that U.S.
duties are only 13.5 cents per case, it says foreign duties
range from 24 cents a case in Canada to $14.64 a case in
China.
                                                                                                       

   FAX HUMOR gets a boost from cartoonist John Caldwell, who
offers 200 illustrated cover sheets in his "Fax This Book."
All are faxable and perforated for easy removal. One example:
"My report follows" shows a man being followed by six pages.
                                                                                                       

   WILD BULBS exported by Dutch flower bulb companies will
bear a special label starting in July, due to an agreement
with environmental groups. The goal: to help protect
endangered species, such as snow drop, that come from Turkey.
                                                                                                       

   THE MILKMAN makes a modest comeback as consumers opt for
convenience.
   Welsh Farms Inc., Long Valley, N.J., says home delivery
now makes up about 25% of business "and it seems to be
growing." The largest customer group: families with children.
Roger Haadsma of Quality Creamery in Grand Rapids, Mich., is
seeing 5% annual growth in home delivery. He credits use of
returnable bottles and growing environmental awareness. So
does Marie Oberweis of Oberweis Dairy Inc., Aurora, Ill. "On
Earth Day, I personally signed up 12 new customers, but we've
been getting three to five calls every day," she says.
   Today's milkman isn't the bottle dropper of yesteryear,
but an entrepreneur. H.B. Hood in Boston sold its home
delivery routes to individual operators more than 10 years
ago. Madison Whitehead of Welsh Farms describes the milkmen
who work with his dairy as independent business people with
expensive equipment who service up to 200 homes a day and
make "a fair living."
   Still, less than 1% of milk sales are through milkmen,
says Christine Meissner of the American Dairy Association and
Dairy Council.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Baskin-Robbins Ice Cream introduces the flavor
Gorbachocolate, available only in Moscow. . . . The three
most forested states in the U.S.: Maine, New Hampshire and
West Virginia, says a new report from the USDA Forest
Service.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Ends Higher as Technologies,
   Utilities Advance; Microsoft Gains 5/8
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Over-the-counter stocks ignored late-day declines in big
exchange-listed issues and closed higher, like the bond
market.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 2.30 to 468.86, a 0.5%
gain. Volume remained brisk at 163.5 million shares, up
slightly from 163.3 million Tuesday. Advancing shares again
outpaced decliners, 1,021 to 910.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I think secondary stocks are finding their own way," said
William Sulya, director of OTC trading at A.G. Edwards &amp; Son,
St. Louis. "Business {in OTC trading} in general is much
better than it was in the first quarter."
   Yesterday's brisk trading of smaller stocks surprised
Lance Zipper, head of OTC trading at Kidder Peabody. Mr.
Zipper said he expected caution from investors in advance of
several economic indicators due out today and tomorrow.
   Institutional buying of OTC stocks was strong
across-the-board, he said, suggesting that portfolio managers
are favoring smaller stocks as they approach the end of the
quarter.
   Utility shares surged, pushing the Nasdaq Utility Index up
6.17 to 674.84. Cable television shares, which are included
in the index, got a boost from County NatWest analyst Lisa
Donneson, according to Dow Jones Professional Investor
Report. The analyst upgraded her investment opinion on the
group to a "buy" from a "hold," citing an easier regulatory
climate and prospects for changes in evaluating cable
industry loans. Tele-Communications, one of the day's
most-active stocks, rose 1/2 to 15 5/8, and American
Television &amp; Communications gained 1 1/4 to 39 1/4.
   Technology shares also were strong, pushing the Nasdaq 100
Index of larger issues, including many computer stocks, up
3.89 to 484.11 and lifting the larger Nasdaq Industrial Index
3.59 to 499.09.
   Microsoft rose from early weakness to a gain of 5/8 to 76
1/2. The company extended its stock buy-back program through
June 30, 1991, and Intel gained 1/8 to 48.
   Westmark International fell 1 to 38 1/4 on nearly 1.6
million shares. Robert T. DeGavre, chief financial officer of
the Seattle maker of ultrasound and other medical equipment,
told DJPIR that investors have been nervous since a Shearson
Lehman Hutton analyst lowered his rating on the stock last
week. Mr. DeGavre, who called the stock's weakness an
"over-reaction," said he hopes to provide investors next week
with specific guidance about second-quarter earnings.
   Also yesterday, Hambrecht &amp; Quist analyst Neal Bradsher
repeated cautious comments on Westmark's near-term outlook.
However, Mr. Bradsher said in the long term he thinks the
company is well-positioned in its markets, according to
DJPIR. Westmark was scheduled to appear last night at a Ragen
&amp; Mackenzie investment conference in Seattle.
   International Microelectronic Products was the most
active, adding 5/16 to 2 7/16 on volume of 3.7 million
shares. Most of that volume came from the sale of a block
representing 7.5% of the company's shares outstanding.
   Market sources say British Petroleum sold the 1.8
million-share block, which it had inherited through its
acquisition of Standard Oil (Ohio). Sohio had acquired the
stake through an original venture capital investment in
International Microelectronic, a San Jose, Calif., maker of
integrated circuits.
   The sources say the sale was part of BP's divestment of
investments in the electronics industry. An International
Microelectronic spokesman said there have been no corporate
developments that may have prompted the sale.
   U.S. HealthCare jumped 1 3/4 to 19 3/8. Leonard Abramson,
president of the Blue Bell, Pa., operator of health
maintenance organizations, said in an interview the company
expects to report earnings for the second quarter ending in
June of more than 25 cents a share, compared with 14 cents a
share in the year-earlier quarter. Mr. Abramson also forecast
that the company will have record operating earnings and
revenue in 1990, as analysts expect.
   Gendex climbed 3/4 to 14. John McDonough, president and
chief executive officer of the Milwaukee maker of dental and
medical X-ray equipment, told a meeting of the New York
Society of Securities Analysts that he's "comfortable" with
analysts' estimates that Gendex will earn 90 to 91 cents a
share for fiscal 1991 ending in March, compared with 81 cents
a share in 1990.
   Cell Technology added 3/8 to 2 5/8 after the Boulder,
Colo., drug company said it will receive its first U.S.
patent covering the company's anti-cancer drug for adult
brain cancer.
   Amgen advanced 1 1/2 to 74. Shortly after the market
closed, the Thousand Oaks, Calif., biotechnology concern said
its board approved a two-for-one stock split and the July 25
redemption of the company's 8% convertible subordinated
debentures.
   National Savings Bank of Albany tumbled 3 3/8 to 28 5/8
after the Albany, N.Y., bank rejected a buy-out proposal from
TrustCo Bank Corp. of Schenectady, N.Y. National Savings also
doubled its quarterly dividend to 30 cents a share from 15
cents. TrustCo shares fell 3/4 to 30 1/4.
   Elcotel dropped 5/8 to 2 1/8 after the Sarasota, Fla.,
marketer of privately owned pay telephones reported a loss
for the fourth quarter ended March 31 of six cents a share,
compared with year-earlier net income from continuing
operations of five cents a share. The company also restated
sales revenue for the fiscal second and third quarters of
1989, which resulted in operating losses for those quarters,
rather than profits as originally reported.
   Analysts' comments fueled activity in several stocks,
according to DJPIR.
   Nike gained 1 7/8 to 80 1/2 after Merrill Lynch analyst
Brenda Gall raised her intermediate-term rating on the
Beaverton, Ore., athletic footwear maker to "buy" from "above
average." Merrill Lynch also selected Nike as its weekly
"focus 1" stock pick.
   American Management Systems jumped 1 1/2 to 16 3/8 after
Alex. Brown &amp; Sons analyst Cato D. Carpenter raised his
investment rating on the stock to "buy" from "hold" and
increased his 1990 and 1991 earnings estimates for the
Arlington, Va., information systems services company. DJPIR
reported that Mr. Carpenter now estimates American Management
will earn $1 a share in 1990 and $1.20 a share in 1991,
compared with 56 cents a share in 1989, and is optimistic
about the company's earnings momentum and introduction of new
products.
   Rouse fell 1 to 23. Merrill Lynch analyst Jordan Heller
cut his near- and intermediate-term ratings on the Columbia,
Md., real estate concern to "hold" from "above average,"
DJPIR said. Mr. Heller, who cautioned that negative market
sentiment about problem real estate markets will prevent the
stock from outperforming the market, maintains his long-term
"buy" opinion on the stock and didn't change his earnings
estimates for the company.
   ---
   Craig S. Smith contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Saint Madonna
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Rock reviewers in New York City are doing some nimble
writing about Madonna's "Blond Ambition" concert, in which
she performed in a "dominatrix" outfit, is attended on a red
velvet bed by male dancers and kicks on the ground her two
female backup singers, among other things. One local critic
wrote: "She pushed the limits of morality but never once went
over the edge." Maybe theologians should be reviewing this
show.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Estimate of Bailout Cost
   For Thrifts Is Increased
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Congressional Budget Office increased
its estimate of the cost -- excluding interest -- of
resolving the savings-and-loan mess to $150 billion, about
$20 billion more than projected by the Treasury Department.
   The projection is based on the assumption that about 1,700
S&amp;Ls will eventually be seized by the government, and that
losses will accelerate. The CBO in March had put the cost at
$80 billion, based only on the thrifts under government
control at that time. The Treasury has estimated the
government may take control of roughly 1,000 thrifts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady will appear before the
House Banking Committee today; he is expected to ask the
Congress for more cash for the bailout effort. "The CBO
estimate will be the subject of intense questioning by the
committee," said committee Chairman Henry Gonzalez (D.,
Texas).
   Yesterday, William Seidman, chairman of the Resolution
Trust Corp., which must sell the failed S&amp;Ls and their bad
investments, repeated that the agency will run out of cash
required to facilitate the transactions some time in the
fourth quarter. The agency projects it will sell between 50
and 75 institutions, with roughly $40 billion in assets, in
the July-September quarter. "Obviously, if we don't have the
money, we can't continue," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Hitachi Will Make
   And Sell Chips Based
   On a Hewlett Design
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   HIT HWP
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Hitachi Ltd. said it will make and sell
microprocessors based on an advanced design by
Hewlett-Packard Co., Palo Alto, Calif.
   The deal gives Hitachi, a major supplier of
semiconductors, a leg up in the competition to supply a new
class of microprocessors called reduced instruction set
computing, or Risc, chips. These microprocessors, which form
the heart of computers or control devices, are generally more
powerful than traditional microprocessors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hewlett-Packard said last year it would try to market its
Risc chips, which are used only in the company's own
computers. Last July, Hewlett-Packard and Hitachi agreed to
develop jointly a high-speed Risc chip.
   "This is a big boost for H-P," Andrew Allison, an
independent computer analyst, said of Hitachi's announcement.
"It puts the world on notice that H-P is serious" about
broadening the use of its Risc chips. By doing so,
Hewlett-Packard can encourage more easily software outsiders
to develop software for its Risc chip, which in turn will
benefit sales of its computers.
   The arrangement should help Hitachi compete better against
Intel Corp. and Motorola Inc., U.S. firms that also are
seeking to supply Risc chips, Mr. Allison said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Forgotten Domino:
   Yellow Rain in Laos: New Reports
   ----
   By Claudia Rosett
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   {Second of two articles}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   NAM POON, Thailand -- To the wise men of world politics,
yellow rain is just a delusion of chemical warfare, conjured
up in the Cold War days out of bee droppings, flower pollen
and the hysteria of a Reagan administration that couldn't
find enough evil already at work in Indochina. But to a Thai
doctor named Semean Suta who works in this village just a few
miles from the Lao border, yellow rain "is real," and falling
this season in fighting in Laos.
   Victims of what Dr. Suta believes to have been poison gas
attacks have been fleeing Laos these past few months. Some
have come coughing and retching to his wood-cabin clinic in
Nam Poon, seeking help. "Anytime they have fighting, it is
there," says Dr. Suta, speaking through a translator. "When
they don't have fighting, it is gone."
   For months now, reports of yellow powder poisoning have
been filtering out of the same obscure regions of Laos that
were the center of the original "yellow rain" controversy of
the early 1980s. Clearly there has been heavy fighting in the
region between the Communist Lao government and mostly Hmong
resistance fighters who proclaimed a new provisional
government in December. The reports of chemical or biological
weapons have a significance that reaches beyond one forgotten
domino. The U.S. and the Soviet Union have just signed a new
chemical weapons treaty, and there are worries about
proliferation in the Third World. The wider world has
interest in knowing whether these reports are true, and if so
what chemical or biological agents are in use.
   The new reports may or may not be true, though they do
sound plausible. But what is clear is that even if such
attacks are taking place in Laos right now, the U.S.
government is not prepared to find out. After years of
disputed yellow rain reports, a three-man chemical and
biological warfare team was attached to the U.S. Embassy in
Bangkok in 1983. About the same time, the reports began to
dry up, perhaps because of the publicity after Secretary of
State Alexander Haig made public accusations of biological
warfare with trichothecene poisons, a position never formally
abandoned by the U.S. The chemical and biological warfare
investigators were not allowed to cross into Laos, and never
managed to confirm anything. In 1986, the team was disbanded.
   These days, a State Department desk officer confirms that
there is "no special team" to look into the recent poison gas
reports. American officials avoid all official contact with
the Lao resistance, and tracking reports of chemical warfare
is a parttime job parceled out among staffers whose main
duties lie elsewhere. Playing point man is one competent but
harried attache who is also charged with following anything
else the Laotian government does, plus keeping track of
Burma. "It's not that we're trying to avoid reporting the
problem," says another Western diplomat in Thailand. "It's
that there's just no institutional framework for it."
   There is, however, a U.S. drug enforcement agent attached
to the embassy, who confirms by phone that around February he
received some photographs of alleged chemical-attack victims
and a sample of "some leaves with yellow stuff on them." He
says he passed these to a defense attache, who in turn
confirms only that it is standard procedure to send such
items to the Joint Chiefs of Staff in Washington.
   A tipoff from another source provides the name of a
defense-intelligence officer in Washington who should know
something of the fate of this sample. A phone call to this
man produces the information that he's heard "stories that
there were some samples floating around," but yellow rain
"seems to be a dead issue." He recommends contacting a public
affairs officer, who suggests calling a Lt. Col. Richard
Oborn, who says that at this point yellow rain "hasn't been
an item of interest."
   Lao resistance fighters, some of whom I met with last
month in Bangkok, the northern Thai town of Nan, and the
refugee camp of Ban Vinai, say they have been delivering
chemical weapons samples to anyone who will take them. The
Hmong call the poison "chemie," and say it is delivered as a
yellow gas or powder by both artillery fire and airplane. A
resistance general, Xiong Leng Xiong, says the Lao government
has been "shooting poison gas very often, in areas where we
declared freedom."
   Other resistance spokesmen claim that the same substance,
or something similar, has been dropped crop-duster-style
these past few months by planes flying over resistance areas
deep inside Laos. They say sites have included villages near
the old northern capital of Luang Prabang, in the Plain of
Jars -- where Western diplomats say aerial attacks took place
recently.
   Those in the immediate area sometimes die, says Shoua
Xiong, a resistance commander. Those who survive contact with
this powder, or gas, develop headaches, nausea, difficulty in
breathing, and in some cases skin sores. Asked if there is
bleeding, as was reported in the early 1980s and which led to
the suspicion of trichothecene agents, he says no.
   Shoua Xiong says that his guerrillas have captured two
suspicious rockets inside Laos, and would be glad to have
them tested by the Americans. "But who can I give them to?"
he asks. Americans officially refuse contact with the
resistance, and he has his doubts about strolling into an
American embassy or consulate carrying a rocket. "We are not
allowed to carry war equipment in Thailand." Anyway, he
complains, the resistance has passed powder samples to both
the Thai army and the Americans, but it never hears anything
back. "We are sick and tired of bringing samples," says Mr.
Xiong. "If any scientist wants to prove it, they can go with
us" into Laos.
   It could be, as some skeptics suggest, that these claims
are just a publicity stunt. But even a bit of exploration
along the border turns up corroborating tales in some spots
where Hmong publicity squads probably don't tread.
   In the Nan hospital, about 50 miles from the Laos border,
a doctor says that four hill-tribe children had been brought
in from the border area in late February, suffering from the
symptoms Mr. Xiong described. Their parents attributed the
illness to yellow rain, which they said had drifted across
their village. A supervisor who attends the interview
dismisses this version, after warning the doctor in Thai that
she shouldn't say anything more.
   Further along the road toward Laos, in the town of Mae
Charim, a doctor at the hospital there says a number of
wounded Lao resistance fighters had come through these past
few months, most suffering from bullet wounds. She adds that
there were also three men from the border area, admitted Feb.
5, suffering from nausea and trouble breathing. She says she
is new to the area, and has not seen this sickness elsewhere
in Thailand. The three men stayed about a week; she does not
know where to find them now.
   Still further down the road is the last stop before the
border -- Nam Poon village. There, Dr. Suta says he had seen
the same three men in February, before sending them on to Mae
Charim. He says he is sure that they were Hmong resistance
fighters, suffering from a chemical attack. He has worked in
Nam Poon for eight years, and has seen others like them. He
gives a description of symptoms that square with the tales of
Shoua Xiong.
   On April 13, the Thai army command that oversees the
border near Nan, across from Laos's Sayaboury province --
site of heavy resistance fighting -- warned Thai villagers to
beware a poisonous yellow dust drifting over from Laos. A few
days later, the local governor dismissed the warning as a
false alarm.
   Yellow rain is of interest, however, to the Thai army,
which recognizes that it might be forced to face weapons used
by Laos. According to several Western sources, the Thai army
has recently tested some samples taken from the Laos border
area. The results, according to these sources, have been
"inconclusive," whatever that might mean. Officially, this
testing has been kept secret.
   Both Thai and U.S. interest in the matter is clouded by
politics. The politically powerful Thai army is shadow-boxing
at the moment with the civilian prime minister, Chatichai
Choonhavan -- who will meet today in Washington with
President Bush. Part of Mr. Chatichai's foreign policy is to
avoid awkard confrontations with Laos -- such as publicizing
reports of chemical warfare. He hopes instead to replace
border battlefields with markets, though the Thai army still
seems to think communist Laos is a trading partner with a
sting.
   In its policy of no official contact with the Lao
resistance, the U.S. defers to the Vientiane regime of
Kaysone Phomvihane, of which little is known because it ranks
among the shadiest totalitarian sinkholes on this planet. In
a 1986 book entitled "Laos," one of the West's leading Laos
watchers, Martin Stuart-Fox, described the Vientiane regime's
degree of political secrecy as "extraordinary" even for the
communist world. "Nothing that might lead to a questioning of
the Party Line is permitted; the Chinese embassy is as
isolated as is the American," wrote Mr. Stuart-Fox. Little
has changed.
   With no American framework for the chore of piecing
together stories and samples, what can be learned in Thailand
today certainly does not add up to clear evidence of chemical
warfare. Yet if this is a publicity stunt, it is remarkably
well-orchestrated. Also, none of the current accounts
mentioned the bleeding so prominent in the early 1980
reports. Western diplomats in Thailand, asked for their gut
sense about the yellow rain reports, are reluctant to write
them off completely. "It's not implausible," says one.
"There's been enough smoke; there may be fire," says another.
   The most likely explanation is that people are reporting
what they see, and the Vientiane Laos government is using
some still-mysterious chemical weapons, perhaps drawing on
old dumps bequeathed by Soviet advisers before the days of
glasnost. Chemical or biological weapons are a ghastly but
efficient means of silencing resistance. It's easy to see why
the Lao government might be tempted to blanket an area with
yellow rain, rather than send its troops trudging through the
jungle to shoot rebels one by one. But with new chemical-arms
treaties posing verification problems, the U.S. has a
legitimate interest in learning precisely what the Soviets
may have left behind in Laos.
   The scandal about yellow rain reports during their
previous heyday was that the U.S. waited years before placing
a professional investigative team in Bangkok; in the words of
a diplomat who watched the last team fizzle: "They should
have been brought in on day one." Now, in the same place a
decade later, even while signing new chemical weapons
treaties, the U.S. is making the same mistake all over again.
   ---
   Miss Rosett is editorial page editor of The Asian Wall
Street Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   KPMG Peat Marwick Aims
   At China Joint Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- KPMG Peat Marwick, the international
accounting and consulting firm, said it expects to have the
first Chinese joint accounting venture approved by the
Beijing government.
   KPMG, which supervises KPMG Peat Marwick partnerships from
here and Amsterdam, said it signed an agreement with the
Chinese Institute of Certified Public Accountants to
establish the firm by year end. The new firm will be called
KPMG Peat Marwick China.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new firm will provide audit services to local Chinese
companies and to Sino-foreign joint ventures. Currently, all
companies in China, including joint ventures with foreign
partners, must be audited by Chinese accounting firms, KPMG
said. If a joint venture uses a non-Chinese firm, the foreign
partner must pay the entire accounting fee.
   KPMG established its first office in China in 1983. The
joint venture will function as a Chinese firm, KPMG said,
providing tax, audit, consultancy and other services offered
by international firms.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Fall 3.47; Profit-Taking
   And Futures-Related Selling Cited
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices closed lower as late
futures-related selling and profit-taking set the direction
for a market that had shown little reaction to an
unexpectedly weak report on the economy.
   Banking issues were hit especially hard amid renewed
worries about the group's earnings prospects, stemming from
news of a double-digit increase in nonperforming assets last
month at HomeFed and MNC Financial's expectation that real
estate weakness would hurt its results.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 3.47 to 2929.95
despite heavy buying in three of its component issues --
International Business Machines, American Express and Boeing.
Over the week's first two sessions, the 30-stock average had
soared a total of 71.04 points.
   Stocks shrugged off a bond market rally in response to
news of a 0.7% drop in May retail sales, which analysts had
generally expected to remain unchanged. Prices of Treasury
notes and bonds jumped as much as 7/8-point.
   While bond market players focused on the sales data's
implications for interest rates -- specifically, the
possibility that the Federal Reserve may be more inclined to
ease monetary policy -- worries about the corporate earnings
outlook if the economy remains sluggish held stocks in check.
   Trading remained moderate. About 158,910,000 shares were
traded on the New York Stock Exchange, compared with
157,100,000 Tuesday.
   Among broader market averages, Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock
Index lost 1.35 to 364.90, the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Index fell 0.66 to 199.00 and the Dow Jones Equity
Market Index dropped 1.16 to 339.82. Declining issues topped
advancers by 786 to 722 on the Big Board.
   After a directionless morning, buying and selling tied to
stock-index arbitrage whipped share prices in both directions
over the course of the afternoon.
   Index-arbitrage buy programs, in which traders purchase
baskets of stocks and sell index-futures contracts to profit
from price differences between them, pushed the market higher
at midafternoon.
   But program selling subsequently wiped out those gains
after the futures dropped to levels at which arbitrage
involving the sale of stocks and the purchase of index
futures could be done profitably.
   American Express climbed 1 to 31 3/8 in Big Board
composite trading of 1.9 million shares in the face of news
that it plans a public offering of 27 million new common
shares. As expected, Nippon Life Insurance of Japan agreed to
buy about 10 million of the shares.
   IBM climbed 1 1/8 to 121 3/8, near its 52-week high of 122
1/4, as 2.2 million shares changed hands. Boeing gained 7/8
to 59 3/4 and peaked at 60 3/4, a 52-week high; composite
volume of 2.3 million shares put the stock first on the Big
Board's most-active list.
   HomeFed plummeted 8 1/4 to 25 after its primary unit
reported that nonperforming assets went up more than 16% in
May, to $579 million. The increase was disclosed before the
session started; trading in the stock didn't begin on the Big
Board until more than four hours after the opening.
   Other savings-and-loan stocks also posted sharp losses.
Great Western Financial tumbled 1 5/8 to 18 7/8, Golden West
Financial dropped 1 7/8 to 31 3/8 and H.F. Ahmanson slipped 1
to 21 1/4.
   Shares of big city banks moved lower across the board.
Citicorp slid 1/2 to 23 5/8, BankAmerica fell 7/8 to 32,
Chase Manhattan went down 3/4 to 25 1/4, J.P. Morgan fell 7/8
to 37 1/4 and Manufacturers Hanover slipped 3/4 to 35 3/4.
   MNC Financial, which said softness in real estate markets
where it has a significant number of loans outstanding is
likely to hurt second-quarter results, dropped 1 1/2 to 15
1/8. The company didn't provide any specific forecasts.
   Among other bank issues, Bank of New York fell 7/8 to 36,
Banc One lost 1 1/8 to 30 3/4, First Fidelity Bancorp dropped
1 1/4 to 21, NCNB slid 1 1/8 to 40 3/8, PNC Financial fell 1
3/8 to 34 3/4 and Wells Fargo fell 2 3/8 to 81 5/8.
   Tandem Computers, which fell 5/8 Tuesday as the broad
market rallied, dropped another 5/8 to 24 3/8 on 1.8 million
shares. The company said that at least four brokerage houses
-- Prudential-Bache Securities, Dean Witter Reynolds,
Montgomery Securities and SoundView Financial Group -- had
lowered their estimates this week of earnings for the fiscal
quarter ending in June. Tandem declined to comment on the
revised forecasts.
   Woolworth fell 3/4 to 33 3/4. The company raised its
planned cash capital spending for the current fiscal year by
$40 million to reflect an increase in the number of stores it
expects to open.
   Prime Motor Inns skidded 1 3/8 to 11 1/2. The company
agreed to sell its entire Howard Johnson and Ramada franchise
systems for $170 million to Blackstone Capital Partners,
which had previously agreed to acquire a 65% stake in the two
systems for $140 million.
   Compaq Computer went up 2 1/4 to 125 1/4 and set a 52-week
high by peaking at 126 1/4 amid speculation that it would
soon unveil a new version of its laptop computers, and
possibly other products.
   Black &amp; Decker gained 3/4 to 16 on 1.3 million shares.
Chairman Nolan D. Archibald and three other company insiders
purchased shares in April and May, according to Securities
and Exchange Commission filings, and a total of nine insiders
have been buyers so far this year.
   Warrants of RJR Nabisco Holdings rose 1/4 to 7 1/8 and
traded as high as 7 3/4. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts plans to
inject about $1.7 billion in cash, raised from the buy-out
firm's investors, into the company in an attempt to bolster
RJR's bonds.
   McDermott International climbed 1 1/8 to 31 3/4. Chairman
Robert Howson spoke favorably about the company's
marine-construction business in an appearance at an
investment conference in New York.
   Mylan Laboratories gained 1 to 22 5/8. The company said
its management met with the Food and Drug Administration,
which had found problems at its Morgantown, W.Va., plant
during an April inspection, and it won't have to recall any
products.
   Seagull Energy added 1 5/8 to 28 3/8. Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
and Robert W. Baird &amp; Co. reiterated buy recommendations on
the stock in response to the company's signing of a letter of
intent to buy Wacker Oil for about $77 million.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 0.73
to 365.04. Volume totaled 13,400,000.
   GW Utilities rose 1 3/8 to 30 3/8. Olympia &amp; York
Developments said it plans to boost its offer for the GW
shares it doesn't already own to 40 Canadian dollars
(US$34.12) a share from C$36.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Eight Ex-Employees
   Of Grand Wilshire
   Charged With Fraud
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Eight former employees of Grand Wilshire
Group, one of California's largest minority-owned businesses
that owned about 25 car dealerships before it collapsed in
1988, were charged with defrauding numerous lenders out of
about $50 million.
   Glendora, Calif.-based Grand Wilshire was controlled by
Eminiano (Jun) Reodica Jr., a Philippine immigrant who
disappeared two years ago after the company came under
investigation, said U.S. Attorney Ronni B. MacLaren, who is
prosecuting the case.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Reodica, who wasn't named in the criminal information
filed in U.S. District Court here, is still under
investigation, Ms. MacLaren said.
   The employees, including an accounting manager, two
operations managers, and Mr. Reodica's personal secretary,
face various charges related to their roles in the alleged
scheme to use customer-loan contracts improperly as
collateral to secure huge credit lines for the dealerships.
   The employees deleted negative credit information from
customers' credit reports, submitted the same contracts as
collateral to as many as three different lenders, and hid
customers' failure to make their car payments, the
information said. Imperial Savings Association in San Diego,
First Los Angeles Bank, and General Electric Capital Corp.
were among the allegedly victimized lenders.
   If convicted, the eight defendants face maximum penalties
ranging from five to 25 years in prison and fines of $250,000
to $1,250,000, Ms. MacLaren said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Stocks Show Some Breadth, but Analysts Want More
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The stock market is showing a sign of strength
that Wall Street has long awaited.
   Though it's hardly a mighty river sweeping stocks along,
the rally of the past six weeks is widening into more than a
squirt-gun blast. In Wall Street parlance, breadth is picking
up.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   More stocks are being carried higher, beyond the 30 Dow
Jones Industrial Average issues and the dependable growth
stocks that have been chugging their way upward since
January. In general, the greater the breadth of a rally, the
longer it lasts and the farther it goes. So Wall Street is
paying a lot of attention to breadth, seeking to determine
whether the rally will persist or turn out to be a flash in
the pan.
   And current market breadth, although much improved, still
lacks the sweeping dimensions that would convince skeptics
that a major bull move is in the offing.
   "It's decent breadth, but it's not investment stampede
breadth," says Robert Farrell, chief market analyst for
Merrill Lynch. To him, at least, the spring rally looks more
like the late stages of an old bull market than the early
stages of a new one.
   Wall Street measures breadth in three ways: what kinds of
stocks are advancing; how many stocks are climbing; and how
much trading volume is propelling the advance. Here's how
those factors stand:
                                                                                                       

   Small stocks join in. After lagging for a long time,
smaller and more speculative stocks have joined the party. To
some extent, they have even led the revelry.
   Since the market rally began April 27, the Nasdaq
composite index of over-the-counter stocks has risen 12.2%.
The small-stock contingent thus managed to beat the
behemoths, including the Dow Jones industrials, which gained
10.8% for that period, and the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock
index, ahead 10.9%.
   "Really, the Nasdaq led the Dow up," says Alfred Goldman,
chief technical analyst at A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons in St. Louis.
In the short run, he thinks that's a bullish sign. But in the
longer term, he says, leadership by smaller stocks is often a
sign of a "speculative fever" that heralds the end of a long
upturn.
                                                                                                       

   Advances vs. declines. One of the major tools of the
market technician is the advance-decline line. The line shows
the total number of daily advancing stocks minus the total
number of decliners, cumulatively since the analyst's chosen
starting date.
   Unlike the leading market indexes, the advance-decline
line varies depending on the starting point. Market
technicians can start their count from any date they wish.
Thus, a dozen technicians may quote a dozen different sets of
advance-decline numbers. However, their advance-decline
charts should show a strong family resemblance to one
another.
   Since April 27, advancers are outnumbering decliners by a
total of 5,190 issues on the Big Board. The margin is
narrower, around 3,600, for Nasdaq issues and a still
narrower 425 on the American Stock Exchange, which lists
fewer stocks.
   That's nice as far as it goes. But the recent rally has
undone only about half the damage to the advance-decline line
that had occurred since the start of this year. The Big
Board's advance-decline line for all of 1990, for example, is
still at about a negative 4,215.
   "Breadth peaked in August of last year, as measured by the
advance-decline line," says Philip Roth, technical analyst
for Dean Witter Reynolds. But he says he's not especially
worried by that fact.
   "You can go on for a considerable time with these
divergences" between a recordsetting Dow and lukewarm
breadth, he says. For example, in 1971-73, such a divergence
lasted for 20 months. However, a severe bear market followed
in 1973-74.
   Mr. Roth says he hopes the divergence will resolve itself
this time by the broad market picking up more steam. That
happened in 1963-64, he says.
   Besides the advance-decline line, market pros keep their
eyes on some other gauges. Byron Wien, chief strategist at
Morgan Stanley, says it is "unique" that only about 40% of
stocks are trading above their 200-day moving averages, yet
the Dow industrials are near record highs. Merrill's Mr.
Farrell says surprisingly few stocks are hitting 52-week
highs, which he says is grounds for caution.
                                                                                                       

   Volume. The market's spring upswing has been achieved on
puny volume in timid trading. On Tuesday, for example, the
Dow Jones Industrial Average muscled its way up 40.85 points,
but volume was a moderate 157.1 million shares. By contrast,
volume was running at about 192 million shares a day at the
peak of the 1987 bull market.
   Mr. Farrell says he would like to see volume of more than
180 million shares daily for a sustained period to give him
more confidence that the current advance will last.
   Mr. Roth, though, says the poor volume doesn't scare him.
"I heard that as a bearish argument in 1988 and 1989," he
says, "and the market rose 50%. Stocks can rise forever if
there's no selling. The reverse is also true. Stocks can fall
forever on light volume."
   Putting together the various pieces of the puzzle, many
market technicians don't see further big gains as likely,
though they generally do expect the 3000 level on the Dow
Jones industrials to be pierced. The industrial average
closed yesterday at 2929.95, down 3.47.
   To persuade him that this rally is going to be major and
lasting, Mr. Farrell says he would want to see several days
running in which gainers outnumber losers by a 3-1 margin or
better and volume exceeds 180 million shares. June 4 was the
only day recently with that kind of number. Yesterday, for
example, volume was 158.9 million shares, and losers ran a
little ahead of gainers.
   Mr. Goldman of A.G. Edwards says: "Breadth has improved,
but it's far from fabulous. . . . It's certainly not what you
see when the market is in a strong bull trend." He says the
market is entering a new back-and-forth trading range,
perhaps between 2750 and 3000.
   Mr. Wien of Morgan Stanley says recent improvements in
market breadth have encouraged him to put some money into
smaller and more speculative stocks than he had been
choosing. He says the Dow Jones industrials will cross 3000
and quite possibly keep rising after that. But he would start
to sell if the index gets much above 3000. With corporate
earnings lackluster and interest rates unlikely to fall much
from current levels, he says, "This is not the start of
something big."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Reed International PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS U.REE
</CO>
<LP>
   REED INTERNATIONAL PLC (London) -- Anthony A. Greener, 50
years old, was named a non-executive director of this British
publishing group. Mr. Greener is group managing director of
Guinness PLC with responsibility for United Distillers, its
world-wide spirits business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hadco Stock Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   HDCO
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SALEM, N.H. -- Hadco Corp. said it bought back from its
chairman Horace H. Irvine II 300,000 shares of common stock;
the company also bought 100,000 shares of common from trusts
he established, all at $4.875 a share, or a total of $1.9
million.
   Following the stock sales, Mr. Irvine and trusts he
created hold 3,884,216 shares of Hadco common, or about 37%
of Hadco's shares outstanding. The company said Mr. Irvine
agreed he won't trade additional shares in the open market
this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hadco, a maker of printed circuit boards, also said its
board authorized the purchase of up to $2 million of
additional shares in the open market this year. And Hadco
directors said they won't sell their stock holdings this
year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Getty Petroleum Corp.:
   Gasoline Marketer Reports
   1st-Quarter Net Sank 97%
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GTY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Getty Petroleum Corp., the independent gasoline marketer,
reported fiscal first-quarter net income sank 97%. The
company cited "extreme volatility affecting our cost of
product" and a "very competitive reselling market."
   In the quarter ended April 30, earnings dropped to
$196,000, or two cents a share, from $7.7 million, or 58
cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Revenue fell 8.2%
to $251 million from $273.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Jericho, N.Y.-based company also said that results
reflected $1.1 million of additional expense from compliance
with environmental rules. Getty also reported a $2.1 million
gain from an accounting adjustment.
   Getty, formerly Power Test Corp., was formed by the
purchase of the Getty name, marketing assets and terminals
from Texaco Inc., when the White Plains, N.Y., oil giant
bought Getty Oil Co.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Getty Petroleum shares closed unchanged at $19.75.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stop Bashing Program Trading
   ----
   By Dean Furbush
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Program trading has been the object of much scrutiny and
some hostility since the October 1987 stock crash. This week,
a New York Stock Exchange panel found that a form of program
trading known as stock-index arbitrage is a normal function
of the marketplace. At the same time, though, a majority of
the panel also backed curbs on the process. The proposal
follows close on the heels of last month's criticism of
stock-index arbitrage by the market regulation division of
the Securities and Exchange Commission. The SEC, repeating a
conclusion it came to after the 1987 crash, said that index
arbitrage had "accelerated and exacerbated" the decline.
   Not everyone, however, shares this view. Some have
criticized the fact that the SEC report was largely produced
by lawyers. The SEC's own Office of Economic Analysis --
economists -- played little role in preparing the
commission's report and has been quiet on the issue. The
question can be asked: Why would the SEC, widely viewed as
having a first-rate staff of economists, choose a group of
lawyers to examine price movements in turbulent markets? The
issue is one of statistics and economics, not law.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Regardless of SEC politics, though, there is a strong
economic argument to be made against blaming program trading
for market movement. In economic research of program trading,
first at the SEC, and later at the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, I've come up with conclusions quite different
from those reported by the SEC lawyers.
   In a study issued by the SEC's Office of Economic Analysis
in 1988, I reported that on Oct. 19, 1987, the times of heavy
program-trading volume were not, systematically, the times
when prices fell the most. In fact, from 1 to 4 p.m.,
above-average price changes tended to occur when
index-arbitrage volume was below average. During that time
the Dow Jones Industrial Average declined twice as fast as it
had in the previous 3 1/2 hours. The precipitous price
declines occurred when the normal index-arbitrage relation
was most disrupted, not when index arbitrage was most
prevalent.
   Program trading and its principal subset, index arbitrage,
must rank among the most widely misunderstood financial
terms. A program trade is simply a trade in a basket of
stocks. Program traders do not relinquish control to
computers. In fact, program trading was in use before it was
associated with computers.
   Index arbitrage, which generally accounts for about half
of program-trading volume, is triggered when prices in
futures and options markets stray from their fair-value
relation to stock prices. Simple math defines the relation.
If the futures price falls below its fair-value relation to
the stock price, index arbitragers go to work-buying futures
and selling stock. Their work shares a crucial feature with
most work: It is privately motivated, and its public effects
are as salutary as they are unintended. As Adam Smith said,
more than 200 years ago, "it is not from the benevolence of
the butcher, the brewer, or the baker, {or the index
arbitrager} that we expect our dinner, but from their regard
to their own interest."
   In this case, "dinner" is linked markets. Linkage is not
an end in itself, but is necessary for liquidity to be
available in related markets. Like telephones, two related
markets cannot both function if the link is missing. The
ruble is essentially worthless on world currency markets
because the market link is missing. Similarly the stock-index
futures market cannot supply its product, liquidity, if the
index-arbitrage link is missing. In a liquid market investors
can trade when they want, without paying a lot for the trade.
In an illiquid market -- one that has become unlinked --
investors must either wait to trade or accept a large adverse
price movement. Therefore markets are more stable -- are less
liable to experience large price movements -- when index
arbitrage is allowed to operate.
   Generally, price movements in stock and futures markets
trigger index-arbitrage trading, which realigns prices. So
index arbitrage is generally positively correlated with price
movements; stock prices fall when index arbitragers sell
stocks. But the distinction between correlation and causality
is critical here. Don't blame the fuel gauge when you run out
of gas.
   In the stock and futures markets, price is the outcome of
a market process in which traders do not cause price changes,
but are agents who translate information into prices. For
example, when orange crops freeze, traders buy orange juice
futures, scrambling to acquire some of the now scarce future
supply of orange juice. Traders buy, and orange juice prices
rise, but orange juice traders aren't blamed for causing
higher orange juice prices. Similarly, index arbitragers
shouldn't be blamed or credited for changing stock prices.
   Apply this to the market decline on Oct. 13, 1989. A CFTC
report, the bulk of which was produced by the Division of
Economic Analysis, shows that index arbitrage was positively
correlated with price movements. There is good reason,
however, to believe that information, not index arbitrage
drove the decline. Stock prices began to tumble moments after
two news items were released almost simultaneously. The first
was news that a legislative proposal to cut the capital-gains
tax rate had been defeated in Congress; and the second was
news that financing for a buy-out of United Airlines was in
doubt, which implicated the effectiveness of the junk bond
market, the key vehicle for financing corporate takeovers and
leveraged buy-outs.
   Following the news, prices began to fall -- and, as
always, fell faster in the stock-index futures markets than
in the stock markets. As futures became cheap relative to
stocks, index arbitragers stepped in to buy futures and sell
stocks, with the effect of realigning prices and allowing
both markets to provide liquidity to investors. Some
exchanges had adopted "shock absorbers," which limited price
movement after prices fell about 100 Dow points. There is
evidence that when these limits were reached, volume migrated
to other exchanges, thereby increasing their liquidity
strains and price volatility. These uncoordinated shock
absorbers, not the presence of index arbitrage, are likely to
have "accelerated and exacerbated" the decline.
   The importance of index arbitrage is indirectly due to
fundamental changes over the past 25 years in the way
individuals hold stocks. Investors have grown to understand
that trading a diverse portfolio of stocks earns them a
higher return for a given level of risk. Rather than trade a
few stocks directly through a retail broker, investors are
now more likely to hold stocks indirectly through a mutual
fund or a pension fund. These funds trade stock programs and
use futures and options markets to lower costs and increase
returns. Individual investors are not fleeing the stock
market; they are holding their stocks indirectly, through
professionally managed mutual funds and pension funds.
   Index arbitrage is the expected byproduct of the existence
of related markets that serve these funds. Its presence is
completely natural and it is essential to the integrity of
the marketplace. Inhibiting index arbitrage in any way
damages the structure of securities trading in the U.S.
   ---
   Mr. Furbush is economic adviser to the chairman of the
CFTC.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MANAGING
   ----
   By Jolie Solomon
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The '90s May Tame
   The Savage M.B.A.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   COULD the corporate jungle become a tranquil glen?
   Yes, predict some students of organizational science who
see an ebbing in that favorite pastime, office politics.
Zandy Leibowitz, president of Conceptual Systems, a Silver
Spring, Md., consulting firm, believes the 1990s "will be the
era of competence," with success based on masterful
performance, not mastery of Machiavelli.
   Employers are realizing the corporate jungle is more
self-fulfilling prophecy than necessity, claims Jonathan
Klein, assistant professor at Rutgers University. People
aren't power-mongering by nature, he argues, but learn
"pre-emptive, political behavior." Mr. Klein puts his
organization class through exercises to illustrate that while
at first one is "richly rewarded for knifing {people} in the
back," retaliation follows, trust is lost, and productivity
declines.
   Sally Helgesen, author of "The Female Advantage," argues
that the advent of women managers will help curb politics.
The corporate ladder is a male model, she contends,
reflecting that men often want distance between themselves
and underlings. Women, she argues, are more likely to create
a management "web" that draws people together.
   "Leaner and meaner" organizations also could actually
bring relief. That's because companies with fewer layers of
managers must redistribute the power. Xerox, for example, is
encouraging teamwork and evaluating performance in ways
designed to override old-boy loyalties.
   Politicking still thrives at most corporations, often
exacerbated by the takeover atmosphere, consultants
acknowledge. Still, asserts Ms. Helgesen, aggressive
opportunism has "an obsolete, '80s elitist feel to it."
                                                                                                       

   Congress May Rescue
   Seniors' Job Benefits
                                                                                                       

   CONGRESS IS CLOSE to tackling a billion-dollar issue:
Employers' right to discriminate against older workers in
paying benefits.
   The bill would overturn the 1989 Supreme Court ruling that
allowed employers to tell older workers something like: "You
won't get as much life, health or disability insurance as
your younger colleagues. It just costs us too much." For two
decades, age-discrimination laws were applied to benefits as
well as employment issues. But the court's "Betts" ruling
gave employers "great freedom," says Henry Saveth, a benefits
consultant.
   The proposed bill would largely restore things the way
they were, resolving some pending cases. One involves
Westinghouse plant closings where younger employees got
severance pay and pension, while those above 60 got only
pension. The law also would make some apparent concessions to
employers, including giving them clear license to reduce
older workers' severance in an early-retirement window if
they paid retiree health benefits. But Mr. Saveth believes
the bill would also make such windows harder to execute,
leading more employers simply to fire people.
   The bill is likely to come on the floor in the next six
weeks and bipartisan sponsors expect it to be passed. But
employers have stepped up their lobbying, and the White House
has become a wild card. While the Justice Department argued
against the Betts decision, and the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission helped draft the bill, the
administration recently hinted at a veto.
                                                                                                       

   Whose Mission Is It?
   You Should Know
                                                                                                       

   PULL OUT your handy corporate mission statement, and read
carefully.
   If you tally the pronouns and words like "should" and
"might," you'll have a reading of your company that goes
beyond the gussied-up talk of values, says a University of
Michigan study.
   Profs. Priscilla Rogers and John Swales reviewed 80
mission statements to determine how well-chosen words set the
mood. Statements that use mostly "you" have a
"laying-down-the-law" flavor, and tend to use a lot of
"shoulds," notes Ms. Rogers. Those that use "we" have an
"inclusive" tone, suggesting less distance between management
and employee.
   For instance, Mellon Bank's mission statement uses phrases
such as "Your personal conduct should reflect the highest
professional standards." Dana Corp., meanwhile, leans toward
phrases such as "We believe people respond to recognition."
   Companies that sidestep the pronoun problem can sound
"institutional," Ms. Rogers says. Honeywell's "Principles,"
for example, is a series of phrases such as "Honeywell
believes . . . ."
   Honeywell noticed the same thing. Two months ago, it
introduced a document heavy on the we words. That, says a
spokesman, was "very deliberate . . . to make the reader feel
that she or he is part of what is going on."
   Of course, it's hard to know whether companies partial to
"we" are more democratic or just have a way with words. Even
Dana abruptly dropped the "we" for a sensitive subject: "It
is highly desirable to outsource a portion of our production
needs."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   ADVANCED Technology Laboratories in Bothell, Wash., gave
each of 1,600 employees a thermal mug, reducing
disposable-cup trash 65%. But the company sent a sample to a
reporter in a foot-high box filled with plastic foam pods. .
. . The good news, says consultant Towers Perrin: With the
demise of Section 89, a law that would have equalized
benefits, employers can develop "executive-only health plans"
free to top brass. The bad news? "These plans are
philosophically difficult to justify" when the rank-and-file
are shouldering more costs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Former Owner
   Of Vernon S&amp;L
   Indicted by U.S.
   ---
   Dixon's 38 Charges Include
   Illegal Contributions
   To Political Campaigns
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Former Texas thrift owner Don R. Dixon, a key
figure in the influence-peddling scandal that helped topple
House Speaker Jim Wright, was indicted on charges that
include illegal political contributions.
   Mr. Dixon, who owned the now-defunct Vernon Savings &amp; Loan
Association, is also charged with directing the use of Vernon
funds to pay for junkets, including "female companionship,"
for thrift executives and the then-commissioner of the Texas
Savings and Loan Department.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Dixon acquired Vernon in July 1982 and just two years
later was wrangling with federal thrift regulators who wanted
to limit the thrift's real-estate lending and explosive
growth. Mr. Dixon was among the Texas thrift operators who
sought the help of Mr. Wright and other congressmen, asking
them to intervene with the regulators.
   Ten of the 38 counts in the indictment, which was handed
up by a federal grand jury in Dallas, charge Mr. Dixon with
making false entries in Vernon's books to cover up
reimbursements to employees for their political
contributions.
   Among the politicians who received contributions from
Vernon employees, according to the indictment, were former
House Majority Whip Tony Coelho of California; former U.S.
Rep. Jack Kemp, now secretary of the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development; and current U.S. Rep. Martin
Frost of Texas.
   Also receiving contributions from Vernon employees was Mr.
Wright, who resigned his congressional seat just over a year
ago after a lengthy inquiry into his personal and campaign
finances.
   The U.S. Justice Department said in a statement that the
politicians weren't aware of the improper campaign
contributions, and "there is no evidence that illegal or
improper activity was engaged in by the receiving individuals
or campaigns."
   The former Texas Savings and Loan Commissioner, L. Linton
Bowman III, who isn't accused of wrongdoing, declined to
comment on the charges that Mr. Dixon used thrift funds to
pay the commissioner's way on trips to San Diego, San
Francisco and Kansas.
   The indictment caps a 3 1/2-year investigation by the
Justice Department, which has been criticized in Congress for
its slowness in bringing criminal charges against the people
believed most responsible for the multibillion-dollar losses
in Texas thrifts.
   In apparent response to that criticism, U.S. Attorney
General Dick Thornburgh released a statement with Mr. Dixon's
indictment lauding "the hard work of our tough, persistent
investigators and prosecutors."
   "These complicated, white-collar crime cases take time to
develop, but the Justice Department is committed to the
investigation, prosecution and incarceration of those who
ripped off our financial institutions and have left the
taxpayers of the United States holding the bag," Mr.
Thornburgh said in the statement.
   When Vernon was taken over by federal thrift regulators in
1987, as much as 96% of its $1.2 billion-plus loan portfolio
was in default. The institution had wracked up millions of
dollars in losses through loans for speculative real estate
developments, many of them to friends of Mr. Dixon and other
Texas thrift owners.
   But the indictment against Mr. Dixon is only tangentially
related to the massive, fraudulent loans that helped bring
about Vernon's demise. Instead, prosecutors focused on the
sorts of charges that are comparatively easy for juries to
understand: illegal reimbursements for campaign contributions
and junkets and the diversion of loan proceeds to pay for Mr.
Dixon's California beach home.
   Prosecutors have used similar charges to win convictions
against some of Vernon's former top officers, including the
thrift's ex-president, Pat G. King.
   Because juries have shown a willingness to convict on such
charges in the past, Mr. Dixon's attorney, William M.
Ravkind, said the charges against his client will be
difficult to defend against. "I don't know how we're going to
win this one," Mr. Ravkind said.
   Mr. Dixon, if convicted of all the charges, would face a
maximum sentence of 190 years in federal prison and a fine of
as much as $9.5 million. Mr. Dixon is scheduled to surrender
to the Federal Bureau of Investigation today, and a date for
his first court appearance will be set at that time.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Frankfurt Stock Prices Decline to a 1990 Low,
   As Shares Drop for the Sixth Consecutive Day
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Share prices on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange fell for the
sixth consecutive day, hitting a 1990 low.
   The German Stock Index declined 12.97 points to 1787.39,
its lowest close since Dec. 27, 1989, when the index hit
1771.44.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   London shares, meanwhile, closed just off intraday highs,
supported by sterling's strength, Wall Street's firming and
relatively hefty buying of quality stocks by institutional
investors. And Tokyo stocks bounced up from midday lows, with
the Nikkei Index finishing with modest gains after three
consecutive daily losses.
   Frankfurt's DAX Index lost more than 20 points in the
first hour of trading amid a wave of sell orders from foreign
institutional investors, breaking through what many experts
regarded as a psychological support at 1800.
   But the market quickly bounced back from its low of
1777.66 on position-squaring, and dealers said there was
little activity for the rest of the session.
   Traders said that most large institutional operators are
hesitant to invest in the Frankfurt market because the
consequences of German monetary union, set to start July 1,
aren't yet clear. In the absence of major buy orders, even
small-scale sales suffice to push the market gradually lower,
traders said.
   "There is no new money coming in," said a trader at a
Frankfurt bank. "The foreigners, who usually drive the
market, already have large German holdings and are now
waiting to see what will happen after July 1."
   If the worst fears of inflation in West Germany and
economic chaos in East Germany aren't realized, the market
has a good chance of bouncing back later this summer, he
added.
   The Frankfurt market is also suffering from the growing
attractiveness of other European markets, especially London,
which is rallying on hopes of the pound's full entry into the
European Monetary system, traders said.
   Chemical stocks were again the main losers in Frankfurt,
hurt by Hoechst's day-earlier prediction of a 10% profit
decline this year. Hoechst dropped 21.20 marks to 264.80
marks ($12.50 to $156.13), reflecting partly the payout of a
13.00-mark dividend for 1989, and other blue-chip chemicals
followed suit. Bayer dropped 7.50 marks to 294 marks, and
BASF fell 4 marks to 290.50 marks.
   Schering, a chemical and pharmaceutical issue, tumbled
12.50 marks to 787 marks after predicting flat earnings for
the year.
   Electronics stock Siemens also fell, dropping 6.40 marks
to 705.60 marks because of the scaling-down of profit
forecasts by some analysts.
   But most other blue-chip shares declined less than 5
marks. In the auto sector, Bayerische Motoren Werke declined
4 marks to 566 marks, Volkswagen eased 1.10 marks to 594
marks, and Daimler-Benz edged down 1 mark to 798 marks.
   Among banking stocks, Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank shed 2
marks each to 754 marks and 269.50 marks, respectively, while
Dresdner Bank slid 1 mark to 407 marks.
   Among the few gainers was retailing stock Karstadt, which
jumped 10 marks to 655 marks.
   Tire maker Continental rose 3.80 marks to 312.80 marks on
speculation that the annual shareholder meeting at the end of
June will vote to eliminate the company's 5% voting right
restriction. That could pave the way for an eventual takeover
by another tire group.
   In London, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share
Index gained 34.7 points to 2405.4, after being up as many as
39.6 points.
   Dealers said that market's fortunes are tied to Wall
Street. Although some expect London to continue steady, there
is considerable uncertainty and wariness about its underlying
strength.
   However, London is also currently heavily influenced by
futures, which are still trading at a healthy premium to
cash. The June FT-SE 100 index contract ended trading
yesterday at 2431.5, up from Tuesday's close of 2398.
   The Financial Times 30 Share Index gained 32.2 points to
1933.2. Volume was 611.2 million shares, up from 433.7
million issues Tuesday.
   Gains were broad-based, without any one sector benefiting
the most. British Aerospace gained 27 pence to 571 pence (46
cents to $9.73), while BOC rose 18.5 pence to 590 pence.
   ICI gained 16 pence to #12.51, as the market discounted
media reports about regulatory concerns over its heart drug,
Corwin. In addition, ICI is expected to benefit from
sterling's entry into the European Monetary System, dealers
said.
   Tokyo's Nikkei index of 225 issues advanced 49.46 points
to 32371.77 on Wednesday. Volume on the first section was
estimated at 450 million shares, in line with 478.6 million
shares Tuesday. Decliners outnumbered gainers 522 to 402,
while 202 issues were unchanged.
   In early trading in Tokyo Thursday, the Nikkei index rose
191.80 points to 32563.57.
   On Wednesday, the Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues
listed in the first section edged down, however, slipping
2.15 points, or 0.09%, to 2378.41.
   The second section index rose 21.32 points, or 0.52%, to
4086.12. Volume in the section was estimated at 30 million
shares, up from 18.1 million shares Tuesday.
   Because of the continuing weakness of the yen and bond
prices, most investors remained on the sidelines, traders
said.
   Investors bought stocks with high export ratios, as those
issues benefit from the weaker yen, traders said. But as many
of these shares declined from early highs on profit-taking,
the Nikkei Index gradually extended losses during the
afternoon.
   Shipbuilding and other shares that had advanced strongly
earlier this month and then turned downward in the past few
days remained at lower levels most of the day.
   Elsewhere, prices closed higher in Amsterdam, Paris and
Zurich, lower in Milan, Madrid, Frankfurt and Brussels and
mixed in Stockholm. South African gold stocks closed sharply
lower.
   Prices also ended higher in Sydney, Taipei, and Manila,
and lower in Hong Kong, Singapore, Seoul and Wellington.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

                                                     % This
                                    Jun 12   Jun 11   Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ...........................  338.4    334.0   + 4.1
   Britain ........................  705.7    698.7   - 2.1
   Canada .........................  399.1    394.8   - 7.7
   Japan .......................... 1332.8   1342.4   -19.5
   France .........................  562.7    561.9   - 0.7
   Germany ........................  290.7    290.1   + 1.9
   Hong Kong ...................... 2385.1   2339.6   +13.7
   Switzerland ....................  224.3    221.8   + 1.6
   Australia ......................  307.2    307.7   - 7.2
   World index ....................  520.4    517.5   - 8.3
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Santa Fe Energy Resources
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SFR SFX
</CO>
<LP>
   SANTA FE ENERGY RESOURCES Inc. (Houston) -- James L.
Payne, president and chief executive officer of this oil and
gas exploration and production company, was elected to the
additional post of chairman. The company also expanded the
board to nine members from six and elected as new directors
Rod Dammeyer, president of Itel Corp.; Lionel G. Dodd, chief
operating officer of O&amp;Y Enterprises Inc.; and Allan V.
Martini, a retired senior vice president of Chevron Corp.
Separately, J.L. Bridwell, senior vice president for
exploration and land, resigned as a director, creating a
vacancy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Democracies in Transition
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   Eastern Europe's doors to democracy opened so abruptly the
past year that there were doubts whether the countries would
know what to do with their new freedoms. Or whether, as the
bloody events in Romania yesterday remind us, stable
democratic governments could arise after 40 years of
totalitarian rule. With the first round of elections in the
post-Communist era just about complete, some initial
observations are possible.
   East Europeans turned out at the polls in proportions
larger than voters generally do in the West. Whether they
voted for a national consensus movement, as they did in
Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia, or for a dolled-up
version of the ruling party, as they did in Romania and
apparently did in Bulgaria, the electors were intent on
making a clear break with the past.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nevertheless, not one of these elections can be considered
as anything more than transitional. One reason is that
nowhere in Eastern Europe have political parties been able to
sufficiently organize to represent coherent ideologies and
identifiable constituencies. Nor could most parties field
nationally recognized candidates. Politicians with any record
in governance invariably were compromised by having been
members of the discredited Communist Party. This is
especially so in Romania and Bulgaria.
   There was an extraordinary outburst of violence in the
Romanian capital yesterday when the army fired upon
anti-Communist demonstrators in a melee at the state-run TV
station. There have been nonstop protests in Bucharest for
nearly three months, complaining that the National Salvation
Front, which got the most votes in a recent parliamentary
election, still is dominated by Communists.
   Fears exist of similar post-election violence in Bulgaria.
One of the main factors behind the Bulgarian Socialists'
victory was that the ad-hoc opposition coalition failed to
overcome the long-entrenched party machinery in the
countryside. They also had a strong strategy in being the
ones to initiate the reforms, and then calling early
elections. That the party had Moscow's evident support was no
liability in Bulgaria. Nor did it hurt that Bulgaria's brand
of communism was relatively less harsh in economic terms than
in neighboring countries such as Romania. So the opposition
may be only partially correct in ascribing the Socialist
victory to voter fear and election irregularities.
   But that's no cause for discouragement. Political
movements that have won electoral victories elsewhere in
Eastern Europe -- Solidarity in Poland, the Civic Forum in
Czechoslovakia and the Democratic Forum in Hungary -- are in
a similarly unsettled situation. Only East Germany, whose
prospects are directly linked to German unification, is an
exception. As political, economic and social questions become
clearer, so will the positions of the various parties and
candidates on these issues. Judging from the current
political battles in Poland, which led off Eastern Europe's
elections last year, no candidate will be able to take voters
for granted.
   It will not necessarily be a sign of failure if voters in
these countries are called back to the polls before the
mandates of their latest ballots expire. On the contrary. The
regimes that would cause the most worry would be the ones
that might be tempted, in the name of political stability, to
make their rule permanent.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Wednesday, June 13, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 10% high, 7 1/2% low, 10% near closing bid,
12% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for
overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.10% 30 to 44 days; 8.05% 45 to 59 days;
8% 60 to 89 days; 7.95% 90 to 149 days; 7.90% 150 to 179
days; 7.75% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.20%
30 days; 8.17% 60 days; 8.15% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.75% one month; 7.80% two
months; 7.84% three months; 7.99% six months; 8.25% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.15% one month; 8.20% three months;
8.25% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.06% 30 days; 8.01% 60 days; 7.96%
90 days; 7.93% 120 days; 7.90% 150 days; 7.83% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% two months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% three months; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% four months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% five months; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 3/8% three months; 8 7/16% six months; 8 9/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.75; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, June 11, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.73% 13 weeks; 7.64% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.01%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.25%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.95%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.70%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.83%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consumer Savings Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>

   Super-NOW Accounts-a           5.00%
   Six-month Certificates-a       7.71%
   One-year Certificates-a        7.86%
   Thirty-month Accounts-a        7.86%
   Five-Year Certificates-a       7.92%
   U.S. Savings Bonds-b           7.01%
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   a-Average rate paid yesterday by 100 large banks and
thrifts in the 10 largest metropolitan areas as compiled by
Bank Rate Monitor.
   b-Current annual yield. Guaranteed minimum 6%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Houston Industries Inc.:
   Utility to Record Charge
   In Second-Quarter Results
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HOU
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Houston Industries Inc. said it will record a $23 million
second-quarter charge resulting from the disallowance by
regulators of a portion of its investment in a nuclear plant.
   In the year-ago quarter, net income was about $56.7
million, or 45 cents a share, on revenue of $950.4 million.
Results for the period included a $26.3 million gain on the
sale of assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Houston-based utility said the charge is related to
the disallowance of $375.5 million of its Houston Lighting &amp;
Power Co. unit's $2.8 billion investment in the South Texas
Project. HL&amp;P holds a 30.8% ownership stake in the $5.4
billion facility near Bay City, Texas. Other owners include
the cities of Austin and San Antonio, Texas, and Central &amp;
South West Corp., a Dallas utility holding company.
   The company said the Public Utility Commission of Texas
this week also confirmed a $227 million base rate rise. The
utility implemented that rate increase in June 1989 under a
system that allows utilities to initiate interim rate
increases, pending regulatory approval.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Mulheren Testifies
   He Never Made
   Illegal Trade Deal
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- John A. Mulheren Jr. took the stand in his own
defense, testifying that he never made illegal arrangements
to buy securities from Ivan F. Boesky.
   Mr. Mulheren's assertions contradicted previous testimony
by Mr. Boesky, the convicted former stock speculator whose
cooperation led to the government's sweeping insider-trading
investigation and to the government's case against Mr.
Mulheren. The 40-year-old Mr. Mulheren is charged with 41
counts of conspiracy, securities and mail fraud and keeping
false records.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Mulheren's testimony was also contrary to evidence
provided during the trial, which began a month ago, by two
other government witnesses. Those witnesses were Michael
Davidoff, a key aide to Mr. Boesky, and Edward McCarthy, a
partner in Mr. Mulheren's former trading firm, Jamie
Securities Co.
   Messrs. Boesky, Davidoff and McCarthy had previously
testified that Mr. Mulheren conducted a series of trades that
were designed to generate tax losses for Mr. Boesky's trading
firm and to help Mr. Boesky evade net capital requirements.
They testified that Mr. Boesky's company had agreed to sell
securities to Mr. Mulheren's firm with the understanding that
those securities would later be repurchased. Messrs. Davidoff
and McCarthy said that profits and losses from the trades
were to be borne by Mr. Boesky's company.
   But yesterday, Mr. Mulheren said he had no such
understanding of the trades. Mr. Mulheren said he repeatedly
told Mr. Davidoff, who was Mr. Boesky's chief trader, that he
didn't do "those kinds of trades" that didn't involve market
risk and were illegal.
   Mr. Mulheren, once a co-trustee of a trust for Mr.
Boesky's children, testified that he met Mr. Boesky for the
first time in 1976 in a Manhattan restaurant, where the two
dined with their wives and Salim B. Lewis, a former Wall
Street stock speculator. Mr. Mulheren said he recalled that
Mr. Boesky seemed to be "very smart, a little outlandish." At
the dinner, Mr. Mulheren said, Mr. Boesky "ordered most of
the entrees on the menu and picked which one he wanted to eat
after he ordered" from the selection of "six to eight"
dishes.
   Mr. Mulheren said that before he conducted the first of
the allegedly illegal trades, in Unocal Corp. stock, Mr.
Boesky phoned him in mid-1985 and asked if Mr. Mulheren could
do Mr. Boesky a favor and buy stock. Mr. Mulheren said Mr.
Davidoff then called him and said, "I'm going to sell you"
330,000 shares of Unocal stock and "I might want to buy it
back." Mr. Mulheren said Mr. Davidoff assured him that Mr.
Boesky would cover any losses Mr. Mulheren might suffer as a
result of owning the shares. "I said, `Stop right there. I
don't do these trades,'" Mr. Mulheren said he told Mr.
Davidoff.
   Mr. Mulheren said he bought the stock without any
understanding that Mr. Boesky would cover losses.
   However, in earlier testimony, Mr. McCarthy offered
evidence counter to Mr. Mulheren's statement. Mr. McCarthy
said that Mr. Mulheren had directed him to keep the Unocal
position separate on Jamie Securities' financial statement
because it belonged to Mr. Boesky -- and not to Jamie.
Yesterday Mr. Mulheren denied that he had ever asked that the
position be kept separate.
   Mr. Mulheren later sold the Unocal shares on the open
market. Messrs. Davidoff and McCarthy have testified that he
was directed to sell the shares by Mr. Boesky, an assertion
Mr. Mulheren denied yesterday.
   Mr. Mulheren testified that he was later asked to buy
other securities as a favor to Mr. Boesky, which he did. He
said he never agreed to have Mr. Boesky bear the risk of
those trades.
   In earlier testimony, Messrs. Davidoff and McCarthy said
that to compensate Mr. Boesky from securities he bought as a
favor, Mr. Mulheren proposed a scheme in late 1985 under
which Jamie would inflate brokerage bills it paid to Mr.
Boesky's trading company. Mr. Mulheren, who didn't have an
opportunity to respond to this allegation yesterday, is
expected to continue his testimony today.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Polly Williams Backlash
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The local teachers' union is suing to stop her, the local
NAACP is siding with the union, and both of Milwaukee's major
newspapers have editorialized against her. But Wisconsin
State Rep. Polly Williams says she's surprised at the
controversy stirred up by her experimental plan to let 1,000
low-income Milwaukee children use vouchers to attend a
private school of their choice. "You'd think I dropped a bomb
near the teachers' unions," she chuckles. "Well, maybe that
wouldn't be so bad."
   The teachers' unions have joined with officials of the
NAACP in a lawsuit challenging the Williams voucher plan.
They contend that the plan, under which students selected by
lottery are given up to $2,500 in tuition to attend a private
nonsectarian school, is unconstitutional. The crux of their
lawsuit is that the private schools involved "are designed to
operate as a type of surrogate Milwaukee public school but
without any state control over the type or quality of
instruction in exchange for those public funds."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lawyers for the unions' lawsuit also have written us
contending that our support for the Williams plan is at odds
with Brookings Institution scholar John Chubb's choice plan,
which he described on this page last week. Mr. Chubb would
convert education money into universal public "scholarships"
and let parents choose their own schools so long as they meet
minimum standards of safety, nondiscrimination and the like.
   We called up Mr. Chubb and asked if he agreed that the
Williams voucher plan lacked sufficient taxpayer
accountability. "That's a laughable position," he told us.
"Milwaukee officials have been holding their public schools
`accountable' for years with disastrous results. It's quite
comical to say that private schools whose diplomas are
recognized by state universities can't be held accountable by
the parents who send their kids there."
   If anything, it is the Milwaukee public schoolteachers who
are unaccountable to taxpayers. Even Milwaukee NAACP director
Felmers Chaney, a party in the lawsuit against the plan, has
raised this issue. Mr. Chaney opposes vouchers because, if
expanded, they could lead to wholesale flight from the
Milwaukee public schools. However, he points out that an
average of only two public schoolteachers are fired each
year. "There's more incompetent teachers out there than
that," he says. "We have to take the union to task. And we
may have to take to the streets."
   While the Milwaukee Sentinel and the Milwaukee Journal
have come out against her inner-city school reform, Polly
Williams does have some press support. Mikel Holt, editor of
the largest black newspaper in Wisconsin, says the Williams
choice plan "is the only way the public schools can be forced
to do a better job." His paper, the Milwaukee Community
Journal, has reported extensively on the private schools that
will start accepting vouchers in September.
   One school, the Harambee Community School, has been owned
by black parents since its founding in 1970. Some 98% of its
students graduate from high school and 89% go on to college.
Another, Urban Day School, uses donations to charge only $950
a year and cuts the tuition further if parents volunteer 20
hours of work. All of the half-dozen schools involved plan to
expand with the voucher students.
   Despite all this, opponents are trying to paint Mrs.
Williams as a tool of white private schools that want to
hijack money destined for the needy public schools; the
nearby Milwaukee Journal editorial cartoon is an example.
This attitude is at first glance puzzling. The $2,500 maximum
value of the voucher is less than half the cost of educating
a child in Milwaukee public schools. The schools shouldn't
lose any money overall for a child who transfers to a private
school. But Mr. Chubb points out that those transfers would
so expose the poor job the public schools are doing that
their entire budgets would be called into question. That is
the real threat that Mrs. Williams poses to the establishment
and its status quo.
   Of her mostly liberal opponents, Mrs. Williams says: "It
would be different if they worried more about their 42%
drop-out rate than they did about busing African-American
kids across town like pawns." She says, "My constituents want
a quality education and if public schools can provide it
that's fine. They just need some competition to get them
motivated."
   Mrs. Williams did pick up one political supporter last
Friday in Milwaukee. President George Bush was in town on
behalf of Wisconsin Governor Tommy Thompson, a Williams ally.
Mr. Bush called the Williams choice plan "one of the most
interesting experiments in education reform. I think we all
will see that when schools compete to attract students, that
can't help but raise the overall level of education."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Fannie Mae Chooses
   Riordan for Position
   In Operations, Systems
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   FNM WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal National Mortgage Association
named Dale P. Riordan as executive vice president for
operations and systems, succeeding Samuel A. Alward, who will
become a technical adviser on information technology to
Fannie Mae's president.
   Robert J. Levin, whose most recent post at Fannie Mae has
been senior vice president for marketing and mortgage-backed
securities, was chosen to succeed Mr. Riordan as Fannie Mae's
executive vice president for marketing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Larry H. Dale will take Mr. Levin's former post. He will
retain his current responsibilities as senior vice president
for multifamily finance and housing initiatives until a
successor is named.
   Fannie Mae's chairman, David Maxwell, said that with the
completion of the huge job of computerizing details on six
million mortgages, "Fannie Mae needs to integrate fully its
business side with the company's information technology
capacities."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<LP>
   MERRILL LYNCH &amp; Co. will continue its policy of refraining
from stock-index arbitrage trading for itself and for its
clients until the firm decides that proper regulations are in
place to address excess volatility. Merrill's position on
stock-index arbitrage, one form of program trading, was
misstated in yesterday's edition.
   (See: "Big Board's Trading-Halt Plan Assailed" -- WSJ June
13, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   HARMAN GROUP is a Columbus, Ohio, investment banking
company. The company's name was misstated in Tuesday's
edition.
   (See: "Meret to Go Private Through Stock Split" -- WSJ
June 12, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   KVN AYP
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kimmins Environmental Services Corp., proposed offering of
800,000 common shares, via Whale Securities Co.
                                                                                                       

   Lunar Corp., proposed initial offering of 1,475,000 shares
of common stock, of which one million will be sold by the
company and 475,000 by holders, via Smith Barney, Harris
Upham &amp; Co., Volpe, Welty &amp; Co. and Robert W. Baird &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   West Penn Power Co., a unit of Allegheny Power System
Inc., shelf offering of up to $130 million of first mortgage
bonds.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Aide Tells Congress Pension Agency's
   Solvency Depends on Outcome of Cases
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR LTV
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The government agency that insures pension
plans delivered a good-news, bad-news message to Congress.
   The good news, said James Lockhart, executive director of
the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., is that the agency "could
be solvent in a few years" if several major pension cases it
is negotiating or litigating go its way. Currently, the
agency has a deficit of about $1 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the bad news is that the agency's deficit could
balloon to as much as $7.8 billion if it sustains major
losses in those cases, Mr. Lockhart warned in testimony
before the House Ways and Means Committee's oversight
subcommittee.
   Despite recent statutory changes designed to strengthen
the federal pension insurance program, including a sharp
boost in insurance premiums paid by pension plans, the agency
"still has problems that may require further reform," Mr.
Lockhart said. The Bush administration is reviewing issues
confronting the agency, and it may recommend legislative
action early next year, he said.
   Meantime, he said he hopes that the pension agency, the
Labor Department's Pension and Welfare Benefits
Administration and the Treasury Department can work with
Congress to simplify pension regulations.
   The insurance program and the defined-benefit plans it
insures may be too complicated, Mr. Lockhart said. He said
the complexity may be a reason why the number of pension-plan
participants covered by defined-benefit plans has declined.
Under defined-benefit plans, employers guarantee a certain
level of retirement benefits for retirees.
   Two of the pension cases that concern the agency involve
LTV Corp. The PBGC has been locked in a long-running legal
battle over a decision by the steel company, which is in
bankruptcy proceedings, to terminate several of its pension
plans and stick the agency with responsibility for $2.2
billion in the funds' liabilities.
   An appeals court ruled in favor of LTV, and the Supreme
Court is expected to rule on the matter any day now. The PBGC
argues that LTV is trying to use agency insurance payments as
a corporate subsidy, and officials worry that a high-court
ruling for LTV would set a precedent for other bankrupt firms
to take the same tack.
   In the other LTV case, a New York federal bankruptcy court
recently disallowed any priority for PBGC claims over those
of other creditors and rejected the agency's authority to
determine employer liability for pension underfunding. Mr.
Lockhart said the agency is challenging the bankruptcy
court's ruling, which he said could limit the agency's
ability to collect on its claims.
   He also voiced concerns about employer attempts to shift
plan liabilities to weaker sponsors while in corporate
reorganization; lack of employer funding for plant-shutdown
benefits, which sometimes are guaranteed by the PBGC; and
rules that let firms with inadequately backed plans pay out
more in benefits than they must contribute to those plans the
same year.
   The agency is trying to protect the insurance program by
encouraging better employer funding of pension plans,
discouraging termination of underfunded plans and maximizing
its recoveries when plans are ended, Mr. Lockhart said. He
said the agency uses such tools as liens, along with tougher
negotiating, to reduce its liability.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Zale in Licensing Pact
   With Tsurukame Corp.
   For Franchises in Japan
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   T.PCJ JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- American brand names are big business in Japan
-- big enough to entice Tsurukame Corp. to license the name
of Zale Corp., the giant U.S. jewelry store chain.
   Officials of Tsurukame, Japan's second-largest jewelry
store chain, have just completed initial training in Zale's
merchandising techniques at the company's Dallas
headquarters, said Zale president Irving R. Gerstein, and
expect to open their first Zale franchise in downtown Tokyo
in September. Initial plans, he added, are for 200 stores
within five years, with Zale receiving an undisclosed
percentage of retail sales for use of its name.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's a no-lose situation for us," said Mr. Gerstein, who
attributed Tsurukame's interest to a Japanese fascination
with American brand names.
   The arrangement includes an agreement by Zale to buy a 1%
stake in Tsurukame for 160 million yen ($1 million). Zale,
the world's largest jewelry store chain, is owned jointly by
Peoples Jewellers Ltd. of Toronto, and by Swarovski
International Holding A.G., a Swiss firm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Petroleum Investments Ltd.:
   Firm to Merge Partnerships
   In Oil, Gas With Bradmar
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   PIL
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Petroleum Investments Ltd., Oklahoma City, said it plans
to consolidate its oil and gas partnerships with a recently
formed affiliate, Bradmar Petroleum Corp. The company said
Bradmar will offer to exchange one share of its common stock
for every 10 units of the partnerships and for every five
dollars of exchange value of the partnerships' interests in
the programs. Bradmar is also offering 16,935 shares for the
general partner's interest in the limited partnerships.
   The exchange offer, which expires July 13, is subject to
the receipt of about 8.4 million of the 16.8 million
outstanding units.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Petroleum Investments said it has decided not to make a
quarterly distribution during the offering period; therefore,
no distributions will be made in the second quarter. The
partnership last paid a distribution of two cents on
September 29, 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Progressive Bank Inc.
   Omits Its Dividend
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   PSBK
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   PAWLING, N.Y. -- Progressive Bank Inc., which cut its
quarterly dividend to 12.5 cents a share from 27.5 cents for
the first quarter, omitted the payout for the second period
and added $5 million to its reserve against possible losses
on bad loans.
   The board omitted the dividend because the real estate
market continues to be weak and nonperforming loans -- those
not earning interest -- have increased, Progressive said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   E. Hale Mayer, chairman and chief executive officer, said,
however, that after the charge, the company's capital stands
at 8.63% of total assets, exceeding regulators' requirements.
   Progressive, holding company for Pawling Savings Bank,
last paid out 12.5 cents a share April 30. It currently has
2.9 million shares outstanding. The total reserve for
possible loan losses is $14.5 million.
   The company's shares were halted in national
over-the-counter trading yesterday before the market opened.
They last traded at $7.75.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Crude Steel Production
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- French companies produced 1,701,000 metric tons
of crude steel in May, down 5.2% from a year earlier, the
National Steel Manufacturers' Association said. A metric ton
is equal to about 2,204.62 pounds.
   For the first five months of this year, output totaled
8,285,000 metric tons, down 4.1% from the year-earlier
period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   New ATMs
   Cash Checks
   On the Spot
   ----
   By Pamela Podger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM NCR MIDL MRDN CSFN
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- CoreStates Financial Corp. is expected to
introduce today a new generation of automated teller machines
designed to cash most checks instantly.
   Demand for such equipment is likely to grow because banks
are under pressure to clear checks faster. New federal
regulations that take effect in September will require banks
to credit to the customer's account within two days virtually
any check deposited through an ATM, and many banks have
indicated that they would have to eliminate ATM deposits
because they wouldn't be able to meet that speed. Current law
requires credit within seven days.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CoreStates' new MAC Check machines, scheduled for a
demonstration today to industry executives attending a
banking conference at the University of Pennsylvania, are
equipped with more microchips for increased scanning
capability. They can read the blocky numbers printed with
magnetic ink in the lower left corner of each check. Unlike
older-generation machines, the new ones can identify the
check's originating bank, the account number and check number
before spitting out the cash.
   The new machines allow users to cash instantly all or part
of a check, depositing any remainder. ATM users also would be
able to buy certificates of deposit and verify their account
activity. Separate versions of the equipment are made by
International Business Machines Corp. and NCR Corp. The units
cost about $43,000 each.
   To get started in the program, customers pre-register
their payroll, government or dividend checks with human
tellers, who can instruct the ATM network to cash up to 10%
to 15% more than the typical check amount. Certain
non-recurring checks, such as a gift from a relative, may
also be cashed by the machines, within the bank's pre-defined
limit for the customer.
   Philadelphia National Bank, a unit of CoreStates, has been
testing prototypes of the new machine for about 14 months at
a branch in Newtown, Pa. Customers get money quickly, 24
hours a day, while bank tellers are relieved of
check-verification chores. CoreStates officials say new
accounts at the branch have doubled since the machine was
installed, and account closings have dropped 30%.
   "About 70% of a teller's time is spent dealing with checks
from the consumer," says Richard W. Epps, a CoreStates vice
president. "Our experience in Newtown is that half of those
checks have been moved from tellers to machines." As a
result, he says, the bank has been able to shift tellers to
other duties.
   Quicker access to the funds would be a big plus for U.S.
consumers, who made an estimated 490 million deposits by
using ATMs last year. But that volume could soon drop
sharply: A survey by the American Bankers Association
indicates that about 90% of commercial banks plan to stop
accepting customer deposits through ATMs, mainly because they
can't meet the new deadlines using their current equipment
without vulnerability to massive fraud.
   Ten financial institutions in the Mid-Atlantic region,
including Meridian Bancorp Inc. and Midlantic National Bank,
have signed up to use the new MAC machines. They expect to be
on-line by early 1991, a CoreStates spokesman says. Those
banks are already hooked up to CoreStates's own MAC system,
which is used by about 16.5 million cardholders in the
Northeast.
   Until now, the banking industry has given little
consideration to what marketing features could be added to
push ATM's into the next generation, Mr. Epps says.
"Paychecks and pension checks are the lifeline for
consumers," he says "and they need the money right away."
   Moreover, it has taken years for consumers to integrate
ATMs into their banking habits. "If you had predicted that
people would go up to an ATM and do a transaction of a CD,
you would have been laughed at," says Edward Alwood, an
automation issues specialist at the American Bankers
Association. But ATM use is accelerating "as the older
generation ages and the younger computer generation starts
banking," he says.
   The advanced machines are likely to boost CoreStates
profits. Historically, the bank holding company has generated
a large amount of its earnings, about 35%, from such
non-lending sources as fees from debit and credit cards, says
Joel Silberstein, a bank analyst at Advest Inc. in New York.
With assets of $22.2 billion after its acquisition in March
of First Pennsylvania Corp., CoreStates "clears more checks
than the Fed does itself in the Third District," says Mr.
Silberstein.
   A spokesman for NCR in Dayton, Ohio, says the company
expects to install about 1,500 of the new machines in 1991
and double the volume in 1992.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Century
   Debenture Holders
   Clear Plan on Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ACT
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN ANTONIO, Texas -- American Century Corp. said its
debenture holders have approved a reorganization plan under
which substantially all of its assets will be acquired by
Tescorp Inc., a Houston-based manufacturer and distributor of
oilfield products. Tescorp's shareholders also have approved
the plan, which now goes to a June 18 confirmation hearing
before a federal bankruptcy court.
   Under terms of the plan, the holder of a $1,000 American
Century debenture will receive 67 shares of Tescorp common
stock plus 86 shares of Tescorp convertible preferred stock
and warrants for an additional 245 shares of common. The
preferred stock initially will be convertible for $3.50 a
share and will receive cash dividends of 50 cents a year. The
warrants, which have a three-year term, have an initial
exercise price of $3.50 a share but that will escalate in the
second and third years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Century stockholders will receive warrants with
the same terms and conditions for a total of 847,375 shares
of Tescorp common. American Century owned Commerce Savings
Association, a thrift that was placed in federal
conservatorship last year.
   Tescorp said it has applied to list its common stock,
preferred stock and warrants on the NASD automated quotation
system. Its unaudited results of operations for the 12 months
ending March 31 showed a net loss of $955,000 on revenue of
$20.7 million, compared with net income of $1 million on
revenue of $21.4 million in the previous year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- United Technologies Inc.:
   Pratt &amp; Whitney Unit Gets
   $312 Million Engine Order
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   UTX ILFC
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pratt &amp; Whitney, a unit of United Technologies Inc., said
it received a $312 million order from International Lease
Finance Corp. for 48 of its engines, to be delivered
beginning in 1994.
   International Lease Finance, a Beverly Hills, Calif.-based
owner and lessor of jet aircraft, placed firm orders for 28
of Pratt &amp; Whitney's PW2000 engines for its growing fleet of
Boeing 757 mid-range aircraft. It also will take 20
high-thrust PW4000 engines for its fleet of wide-body
aircraft, Pratt &amp; Whitney said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company, based in East Hartford, Conn., said that the
order was International Lease's third significant order in
two years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sifco Picks Gotschall
   For Additional Post
   Of Chief Executive
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   SIF WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- Sifco Industries Inc. directors elected
Jeffrey P. Gotschall, president, to the additional position
of chief executive officer of this producer of
aircraft-engine parts and other metal products.
   As chief executive, Mr. Gotschall, who is 42 years old,
succeeds Kevin O'Donnell, who is 65 and will retire June 30.
Mr. O'Donnell will continue as a director.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Gotschall was president of the company's turbine-parts
group until his election as Sifco's president in 1989. He has
been a director since 1986. He is a nephew of the company's
chairman, Charles H. Smith Jr., and his grandfather, Charles
H. Smith Sr., served as president of the company from 1925 to
1942.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- H.H. Robertson Co.:
   Pittsburgh Firm Progresses
   Toward Funding Ceco Deal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   T.FCY RHH X.CKO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   H.H. Robertson Co. said it is making progress in arranging
financing for the acquisition of Ceco Industries Inc.,
Oakbrook Terrace, Ill.
   Robertson, a building products and contracting concern in
Pittsburgh, said it received a written commitment from Wells
Fargo Bank for $150 million of financing. In addition,
Frontera S.A., a Swiss investment company, definitively
agreed to buy $40 million of Robertson stock after the
merger.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Robertson had agreed earlier to pay $15 million cash plus
3.4 million to 4.1 million shares of Robertson common stock
for the closely held Ceco, and to assume $85 million of Ceco
debt. Following the transaction, Frontera and the current
owners of Ceco each would own about 25% of Robertson's
outstanding shares.
   Ceco manufactures doors, metal buildings and roof systems,
and is a provider of concrete forming services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Reichmann Family
   To Boost Buy-Out Bid
   For GW Utilities Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   GWT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Toronto's Reichmann family said it will boost
its offer to buy out minority shareholders of GW Utilities
Ltd. to 40 Canadian dollars (US$34.13).
   A spokesman for the Reichmann's closely held holding
company, Olympia &amp; York Developments Ltd., said the offer was
increased by C$4 a share "to reflect the potential increase
in the value of the shares as a result of transactions
announced since the going-private proposal was made."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In January, Olympia &amp; York proposed to offer shareholders
C$36 a share, subject to shareholder approval at a special
meeting. The company already holds an 89.3% stake in GW
Utilities.
   Since then, GW Utilities has announced plans to tender its
82% stake in Consumers' Gas Co. to a C$1.1 billion bid by
British Gas PLC. In April, Olympia &amp; York announced a
reshuffling of its other energy assets, which would see GW
Utilities's subsidiary, Home Oil Co., merge with Gulf Canada
Resources Ltd., 74.3% owned by Olympia &amp; York.
   If either of those transactions don't receive necessary
shareholder and regulatory approvals, the Reichmann spokesman
said Olympia &amp; York "would come back with another
privatization offer {for GW Utilities} similar to the first
one."
   In trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday, GW
Utilities closed at C$35, up 88 Canadian cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pic 'N' Save Corp.:
   Retail Chain, Investors File
   Confidentiality Agreement
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   PICN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Girard Partners L.P., controlled by investor David H.
Batchelder, said it entered into a confidentiality agreement
with Pic 'N' Save Corp.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Girard said it signed the pact in order to receive nonpublic
information needed to form an acquisition proposal for Pic
'N' Save.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pic 'N' Save and Girard, which have been at loggerheads
over efforts by Girard to oust Pic 'N' Save's board, recently
agreed to a truce while Pic 'N' Save management conducts an
auction to sell the company.
   Based in Dominguez, Calif., Pic 'N' Save operates a chain
of retail stores that specialize in close-out merchandise.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Phelps Dodge Labor Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   PD LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Phelps Dodge Corp. said unionized
employees at it Silver City, N.M., copper mine ratified a new
three-year labor contract that provides wage increases of
about 21% over the life of the contract. The contract, which
covers about 900 workers, becomes effective July 1.
   Phelps Dodge is a major producer of copper and other
metals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Olympia Broadcasting Corp.:
   Seattle Concern in Filing
   For Chapter 11 Protection
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   OBCCC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Olympia Broadcasting Corp. said it filed for protection
from creditors under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
   Seattle-based Olympia, which had a 1989 loss of $11
million on revenue of $15.8 million, had been deteriorating
for months and had met little success in attempts to sell
radio stations to raise money.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company listed assets of $21.9 million and liabilities
of $38 million. It said the filing also covers one subsidiary
but does not include Olympia Broadcasting Networks unit, its
radio networks unit, or any of the units that own the radio
stations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GenCorp Finishes Station Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS GY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   FAIRLAWN, Ohio -- GenCorp Inc. said the final appeal
concerning its 1988 sale of station KHJ-TV in Los Angeles to
Burbank, Calif.-based Walt Disney Co. has been dismissed.
   The transfer of the station, currently KCAL-TV, is now
complete, GenCorp said. GenCorp, which has aerospace,
automotive and plastics businesses, has been disposing of its
radio and television stations after a lengthy controversy
over the company's fitness to own broadcasting licenses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Spanish Car Sales Fell in May
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   MADRID -- Spanish car sales dropped 4.8% in May to 93,573
units from 98,339 a year earlier, the Spanish Association of
Car Makers said.
   In the first five months of this year, sales fell 5.8% to
450,334 cars from 478,183 in the year-earlier period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In May, imported car sales fell 2.4% to 12,258 units from
12,553 a year earlier, and domestic sales slipped 5.2% to
81,315 cars from 85,786.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Racal Electronics PLC:
   Pretax Earnings Rose 13%
   For Year Ended March 31
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.RCA RTG
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Racal Electronics PLC said pretax profit for the year
ended March 31 rose 13% to #201 million ($342.4 million) from
#178 million a year earlier largely because of substantial
growth in its telecommunications sector.
   The company said profit after tax and minority interests
was little changed at #117 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Racal's 80%-owned Racal Telecom PLC, which was created out
of its telecommunications division and listed for trading on
London's Stock Exchange in late 1988, separately reported a
95% rise in pretax profit on a 69% increase in sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Capital &amp; Research
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ACRCA
</CO>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- The Massachusetts Water Resources Authority
awarded a $119.4 million construction management contract to
ICF Kaiser Engineers, a subsidiary of American Capital &amp;
Research Corp., Fairfax, Va.
   The contract, which is part of the $6.1 billion Boston
harbor cleanup plan, covers 5 1/2 years. Stone &amp; Webster will
receive $28 million of the award as the major sub-consultant
on the project, the state agency added.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Will Auction Bonds
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government next Tuesday will
auction 650 million Canadian dollars (US$554.6 million) of
10.25% bonds, due March 15, 2014, the Finance Department
said.
   Proceeds from the sale will be used to redeem C$600
million of maturing government bonds and for general
government purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Youthful Sobriety Tests Liquor Firms
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   BUD VO MO U.GUI ACCOB BF.B LVMHY
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   At the University of Texas in Austin, a new student fad
has taken hold: sobriety.
   This spring, a fraternity banned alcohol during the
campus's annual spring fling for high school students. All 28
of the school's fraternities decided to go dry for last
fall's "rush week," the annual debauchery when they recruit
new members. And a non-alcoholic bar has sprouted along
Austin's Sixth Street of honky tonks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These events may put a dent in the university's reputation
as a party school, but "it's just not acceptable to drink and
drive," says Larry Dubinski, a Zeta Beta Tau senior and a
member of the Interfraternity Council at the university. "And
people don't drink as much anymore."
   What's happening in Austin isn't an aberration. Across the
country, evidence is mounting that alcohol consumption among
young people is dropping. And that has put the makers of beer
and booze in an awkward position. Many have taken steps
recently to discourage alcohol abuse, especially among the
young. But at the same time, they all market ferociously to
young people, their biggest customers, who are just starting
to develop brand loyalties.
   So far, widespread abstinence doesn't seem a serious
threat. But the signs of change are unmistakable.
Non-alcoholic after-prom and after-graduation parties are
spreading -- there's even an annual convention now where
students go to learn how to organize such parties. And
teenagers are starting to like the looks of a dry world.
Lance Rizzo, an 18-year-old from Humble, Texas, who just
graduated from high school, quit drinking about 18 months
ago. "Hangovers, the lost money, the car wrecks are not part
of my life anymore," he says. Is he ridiculed by his peers
for his teetotaling? "Absolutely not," he says. "It seems to
be what's in."
   Statistics show consumption is falling faster among young
adults than in the general population. The percentage of 18-
to 24-year-olds who drink vodka fell to 21.9% last year from
32.2% in 1984, according to Simmons Market Research Bureau.
Consumption by people of all ages declined less sharply, to
22.1% from 26%, Simmons says. Even beer, typically the drink
of choice among the young, is slipping: In 1989, 46.7% of the
18-to-24 age group drank beer, down from 56.3% in 1984. Among
the population as a whole, beer consumption eased only 1.6
percentage points.
   It isn't easy to pinpoint the roots of this sobering
trend. Certainly, the federally mandated 21-year-old minimum
drinking age has had a big impact on consumption by the
under-21 set. But the most populous states have had
21-year-old minimums for at least three years, yet
consumption continues to drop. And drinking also has declined
in the 25-to-34 bracket.
   Health awareness has had an impact: The fitness boom may
be waning, but many people are counting calories. And some
states passed laws in the past 10 years making the hosts of
private parties as liable as bartenders for serving drunks.
"We're in a society right now where people tend to get sued a
lot," says Mr. Dubinski of the University of Texas fraternity
group. Two years ago, the fraternity council adopted a rule
requiring fraternities to provide free taxis or designated
drivers at parties where alcohol is served.
   Meanwhile, campaigns to stop underage drinking and to
moderate drinking by party-prone 21- to 34-year-olds have
gathered steam. Since January, Students Against Driving Drunk
has received 400,000 requests for its parent-student
contracts, which stipulate that the kids won't try to drive
when they're drunk. In just 10 years, Mothers Against Drunk
Driving has gathered 2.8 million members. Nearly 80% of all
high schools in the U.S. have SADD chapters, and 400
communities have MADD chapters.
   Alcohol-related automobile deaths among 15- to
19-year-olds plunged to 2,170 in 1988 from a peak of 6,281 in
1982, partly because of the drinking-age changes, but also
because "kids began to see that death is related to alcohol
and drug use," says Robert Anastos, the founder and president
of SADD. "They figured out that you don't have to drink and
drive."
   Now, brewers and distillers are catching flak for enticing
impressionable youths with their ads. Mr. Anastos cites Bud
Light's Spuds McKenzie campaign. "I think {the advertising}
reaches kids," he says. "I don't think it's their intent, but
I think it reaches them." Mr. Anastos says he was pressured
by critics to stop accepting money from Anheuser-Busch Cos.
   Anheuser, which donated about $1.8 million over eight
years as SADD's largest sponsor, says it is proud of its
support for the group. "What's more appropriate than for us
to be involved in this program?" an Anheuser spokesman asks.
He adds that research has shown that advertising "doesn't
cause abuse or underage drinking," and that Spuds McKenzie
wasn't aimed at teens. "It wouldn't make sense to market to a
group that can't buy our product," he says.
   In 17 states, bills are pending to restrict alcohol
advertising and marketing. A bill pending in Congress would
require that warning labels, now mandatory on cans and
bottles, be included in ads. And the National Collegiate
Athletic Association last year reduced the amount of ad time
beer companies can buy during telecasts of NCAA tournament
basketball games.
   A few alcohol makers have been pushing moderation for
years (Seagram Co. ran ads condemning drunk driving and
underage drinking as far back as 1937), but many more have
joined the chorus recently to blunt the push for ad
restrictions. The Distilled Spirits Council of the U.S. sent
out 50,000 requested brochures in the past six months that
focus on the difference between use and abuse of alcohol.
Some 30,000 parents have called to get a copy of Seagram's
"Talking about Alcohol," a cassette tape and booklet to help
parents talk to pre-teens about alcohol. In addition, brewers
and distillers have poured millions of dollars into
public-service ads promoting responsible drinking.
   Distillers and brewers fear that many young people have
become what they call neo-prohibitionists, rejecting even
light or moderate drinking. Industry officials grouse about
substance-abuse programs that lump alcohol with illegal
drugs. The University of Michigan's latest annual survey of
high school students shows that the percentage who say
moderate drinking (one or two drinks nearly every day) poses
a "great" physical or mental risk rose to 28.5% in 1989 from
20.3% in 1979.
   To counter such attitudes, a series of ads in a new
Distilled Spirits Council campaign, titled "Know the meaning
of the word," tries to differentiate use and abuse. "I think
that it's critical to separate" the two, says a spokeswoman
for the council. "It's an area that's been muddied by the
media and anti-alcohol advocates."
   Brewers and distillers have another pressing concern:
making up for sagging spirit sales and flat beer sales. Some
are producing more upscale drinks that carry heftier prices
and profit margins. Higher exports have helped: In 1988, the
latest year for which figures are available, exports rose
46%.
   Alcohol makers are hedging their bets by adding
non-alcoholic drinks. In the past year, Anheuser-Busch and
Philip Morris Cos.' Miller Brewing Co. unit have introduced
non-alcoholic beers, O'Douls and Sharp's. (Miller says
shipments of Sharp's in this year's first five months
exceeded its projections for the year, though it won't give
figures.) Guinness PLC of Britain bought Sundance, a
successful new carbonated water and fruit juice drink, from
Stroh Brewery Co., and Adolph Coors Co. began test-marketing
a new bottled water, Rocky Mountain Spring Water.
   But the industry realizes those aren't long-term
solutions. Since the 18-to-34 age group, which makes up about
40% of the population, consumes about 50% of all beer, a
decline in drinking in that group has a disproportionate
impact on brewers. So the industry feels it must market more
aggressively to the younger set -- young but legal drinkers,
officials are quick to stress. "They are the trend setters,"
says Emanuel Goldman, a beer-industry analyst with
PaineWebber Inc., San Francisco. "They can provide a product
with momentum."
   Distillers would love to emulate Brown-Forman Corp.'s Jack
Daniel's bourbon, which, over the past two decades, attracted
young male drinkers by offering a high-brow image, club
memberships and a masculine, black-and-white print ad
campaign. Today, its consumer profile is significantly
younger than those of other bourbons, says Tim Younkin, Jack
Daniel's marketing director, though he declines to give
specific numbers.
   Guinness has fashioned ad campaigns to reach young,
affluent urbanites just starting to form brand loyalties,
says Clint Rodenberg, senior vice president of marketing for
Schieffelin &amp; Somerset, a joint venture of Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton and Guinness that imports wine and spirits. The
company's Tanqueray gin ads, featuring a black-and-white
photo of a woman with green lips, have been placed in Spy, LA
Style and Detail, magazines with young, trendy readerships.
The company sold 14,000 poster-sized reproductions of the ads
at $5 each. The result: The number of Tanqueray gin consumers
in the 25-to-34 age group has jumped 15% since 1985 to 2.7
million. A campaign this summer for the company's new
Tanqueray Sterling Vodka will feature a contest for
up-and-coming rock bands. The vodka will also sponsor
Billboard's music video awards this year.
   The light and dry beers hitting the market are likewise
aimed at younger legal drinkers who aren't ready for the bite
of a heavier beer. "What you want is something that the
youngsters will grab onto," says PaineWebber's Mr. Goldman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   T/SF Communications Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TCM
</CO>
<LP>
   T/SF COMMUNICATIONS Corp. (Tulsa, Okla.) -- Edward B.
Marks, chairman of the Marks Roiland Communications unit of
this publishing company, was elected a director, increasing
board membership to eight.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   California Aide
   Orders Insurers
   To Cut Some Rates
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   California's top insurance regulator ruled that insurers
must roll back certain rates 20% unless they can show that
doing so would deprive them of making an 11.2% return on
equity.
   The move provides a glimmer of hope to supporters of
consumer activists' flagging campaign to change the way the
insurance industry operates in California.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move prompted immediate howls from insurers, who vowed
to attack the ruling in court. It comes after months of often
acrimonious hearings and debates on how to implement
California's Proposition 103, a ballot initiative passed by
voters in November 1988 that mandated sharp cutbacks in auto
insurance rates and called for a welter of new regulatory
limits on insurance companies.
   The ruling, by state Insurance Commissioner Roxani
Gillespie, set a minimum return on equity that was well below
levels lobbied for by insurance companies. And it ran counter
to the findings of William Fernandez, an administrative law
judge who ruled in May that insurers should be exempted from
the rollback if it meant they couldn't make a 13.2% return.
Many supporters of the proposition had feared that that
ruling might doom Proposition 103, particularly its provision
for rate relief.
   Ms. Gillespie called her ruling "pro-consumer." She added:
"Whether consumers receive the full 20% rollbacks promised by
the drafters of Proposition 103 remains to be seen, but I am
ordering rollbacks to the maximum extent permissible under
the proposition."
   Indeed, yesterday's ruling was seen by all sides as merely
a small step down what's still a very long road. Ms.
Gillespie said she expects to have to litigate to enforce the
new system.
   David Balabanian, a San Francisco attorney representing
Fireman's Fund Corp., said Ms. Gillespie had the right idea.
"There will be suits," he said, "and the process will drag
on." Added Harvey Rosenfield, a consumer activist and prime
mover behind Proposition 103: "This is a modest move in the
right direction, but we've been inching along for 18 months
and we're still a long way from implementing anything."
   The ruling actually does little to clarify the murkiness
that has enveloped Proposition 103 since its passage. Some
big insurers, including State Farm Insurance Cos., which
controls about 18% of the California auto insurance market,
make far less than an 11.2% return and theoretically could
raise rates under Ms. Gillespie's ruling. And smaller
insurers that offer some of the cheaper policies do make
returns above the 11.2% mark by operating efficiently; they
might be forced out of the market by the rollback.
   Nonetheless, Mr. Rosenfield and other supporters of the
proposition, while dissatisfied with some aspects of the
commissioner's ruling, saw it as progress. The insurance
industry has won a string of legal victories since the
measure passed that seemed to put insurers on the verge of
crippling the reform effort.
   A day before Mr. Fernandez's ruling last month, a Los
Angeles judge invalidated regulations attempting to limit the
ability of insurance companies to use place of residence when
computing auto insurance rates. Such "territorial pricing" is
a hot issue in California, where urban motorists may have to
pay several times the rates for suburban and rural drivers.
   The exercise of figuring out an appropriate rate of return
for insurance companies was made necessary by a state Supreme
Court ruling last year that watered down some Proposition 103
provisions and held that the measure couldn't be implemented
in a way that deprived insurers of a "fair rate of return."
However, it left it to Ms. Gillespie to define that.
   Insurance industry lawyers said it was unusual for a
regulator to ignore the findings of an administrative law
judge, and noted that Ms. Gillespie has had trouble in the
past when her department went against administrative law
findings in other Proposition 103 matters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chase Manhattan Weighs Asset Sales,
   Trimming Some Units, Cutback in Staff
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   CMB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Faced with slack corporate financing needs,
Chase Manhattan Corp. is considering selling assets and
paring back some activities, which could possibly include
layoffs.
   Chase bankers said that the review is still under way and
that no decisions have been reached. Two areas that are
reportedly being considered for cutbacks are foreign-exchange
trading and European corporate finance. But although pruning
is possible, Chase isn't expected to pull out of those
businesses altogether.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We are clearly determined to improve profitability,"
Richard J. Boyle, vice chairman in charge of global banking,
said in an interview. "The level of deal flow is markedly
lower . . . we're not looking at something that is all that
radical. It's an ongoing process of renewal."
   Among the assets that the bank holding company might sell
are its buildings in Europe as well as One New York Plaza,
which it has tried to sell in the past.
   Chase's primary dealership in U.S. government securities
and its recently won securities-underwriting powers aren't on
the block, according to Chase insiders.
   The hunt for ways to reduce overhead costs is apparently
an outgrowth of a recent retreat attended by Chase's top
managers. At that meeting, some of those present said,
President Thomas G. Labrecque outlined the prospects for
revenue growth for the remainder of the year and concluded
that expenses need to be reduced.
   The earnings outlook is understood to be especially tight
in Mr. Boyle's global banking unit. Its North American
corporate-finance unit is trailing results posted a year ago,
people in the bank say. Last year the unit posted record
revenue, largely on the strength of corporate acquisitions
and restructurings. Since then, such deals have largely
vanished with the collapse of the junk bond market.
   Meanwhile, Chase, like other U.S. banks, is having little
success grabbing its share of deals being done by European
corporations in anticipation of the unification of the
European Community in 1992.
   Last year, Chase reported a loss of $665 million, or $7.94
a share, as a result of $1.26 billion in special charges
related to past-due developing-country loans, bad real estate
loans in Arizona and the closing of its London securities
dealer. In 1988, Chase had earnings of $1 billion, or $11.55
a share.
   Earlier this month, Moody's Investors Service Inc. lowered
its ratings on Chase's senior debt to Baa-2 from Baa-1, as
its levels of problem loans have risen.
   Robert Albertson, a securities analyst with Goldman, Sachs
&amp; Co., said Chase has done a "very good job" of reining in
its growth in overhead. As of Dec. 31, Chase had 41,610
employees, down 2% from 1987 levels. Analysts find that
encouraging in light of the fact that Chase's profitable
consumer and transaction-processing businesses continue to
grow and add employees.
   Chase recently centralized all of its European back office
operations into a single location in Bournemouth, England;
pared back the scale of its U.S. government securities
operation and sold off its underperforming banks in Belgium
and the Netherlands.
   "Every money center is having reductions in staff --
Continental Bank, Citicorp and, bless their hearts, J.P.
Morgan," said Mr. Albertson. "These aren't some shocking
event. They're just paring away."
   Despite the difficulties encountered in Europe, Mr. Boyle
said Chase remains committed to corporate finance on the
continent. "Our opportunities in Europe center very much on
the fact that we are a pan-European bank. Nevertheless, there
are activities that no longer offer attractive products for
us. With the lower levels of activity, it's tough all over
the place."
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Chase
closed at $25.25, down 75 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lifetime Corp. Buys Markka
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   LFT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Lifetime Corp. bought Markka Healthcare Inc. of
Atlanta for about $12 million, with $1.1 million of the
purchase price contingent upon Markka's revenue for the
following 12 months.
   Markka, a provider of infusion therapy and respiratory
devices, had annual revenue of about $6 million in 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lifetime, a provider of home health-care personnel, said
about $4 million of the total purchase price may be paid in
company stock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Amgen Will Redeem
   Debentures, Declares
   2-for-1 Split of Stock
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   AMGN
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. -- Amgen Inc., whose stock price has
nearly doubled over the past 12 months, declared a 2-for-1
stock split and said it would redeem its convertible
debentures.
   The biotechnology company said the split would be
distributed Aug. 10 to stock of record July 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Amgen will redeem its $50 million face amount of 8%
convertible debentures July 25 at a price of $5,386.67 for
each $5,000 face amount of debentures. The conversion rate is
96.8992 shares for each $5,000 principal amount, equal to a
price of $51.60 a share.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Amgen
shares rose $1.50 to $74 a share. The stock's large premium
over the conversion price makes it more attractive for debt
holders to convert their debentures into Amgen common than to
tender the debentures to the company.
   Assuming conversion of all of the debentures, Amgen said
it will have about 37.2 million shares outstanding after the
stock split. The conversion will save the company about $4
million in annual interest expense.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   A.BLL A.BON U.MXC FREST WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   MAGAZINES: Bob Guccione's General Media International Inc.
acquired three automotive magazines -- Stock Car Racing,
SuperStock and Drag, and Open Wheel -- from Lopez
Publications. The price wasn't disclosed. General Media,
which recently acquired Compute] magazine from Capital
Cities/ABC Inc., said it is "actively" seeking other
automotive magazines to buy.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   NEWSPAPERS: British publisher Robert Maxwell is still
pursuing a proposed purchase of 49% of the West Australian
newspaper, a Maxwell spokesman said, despite a rebuff from
the Australian government, which opposes foreign control of a
major paper. Agreement to buy the stake from Bell Group Ltd.,
a Bond Corp. Holdings Ltd. unit, was announced Monday.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Robert B. Bogart was named vice president of
human resources administration at Macmillan Inc., the New
York-based unit of Maxwell Communication Corp. He succeeds
Cam Starrett, who left the company. Mr. Bogart was senior
vice president, corporate human resources and administration,
at Primerica Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- SCEcorp:
   San Diego Gas &amp; Electric
   Merger Is Upheld by U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SCE SDO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   SCEcorp, Rosemead, Calif., said that the Justice
Department won't oppose the proposed merger of the holding
company and its Southern California Edison Co. utility unit
with San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Co.
   The merger was approved by SCEcorp and San Diego Gas &amp;
Electric shareholders in April 1989; it is awaiting approvals
by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the
California Public Utilities Commission.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Justice Department, a government agency that reviews
antitrust matters, has agreed on conditions that it says
"adequately resolve any concerns" about the impact of the
proposed merger on competition, SCEcorp said.
   Under the agreement, the combined company would extend
commitments to make transmission capacity in certain areas
available to other utilities. SCEcorp and San Diego Gas &amp;
Electric also agreed they wouldn't enter into any power
purchase contracts with affiliated energy producers without
prior approval of the California commission.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Stora Kopparbergs Bergslags AB:
   Company Pulls Out of Bid
   For Forest Products Group
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   S.STO EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Stora Kopparbergs Bergslags AB confirmed that it has
withdrawn from a planned joint takeover with Finland's
Kymmene Oy of French forest products group Chapelle Darblay
S.A.
   Stora, the large Swedish pulp and paper concern, said its
pending 4 billion mark ($2.4 million) acquisition of West
Germany's Feldmuehle Nobel AG would have posed potential
antitrust difficulties in both France and West Germany for
the purchase of a 50% stake in Chapelle Darblay. Stora denied
that it pulled out under pressure from the French government
or at the request of West German antitrust authorities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The French Economics Ministry approved the sale of
Chapelle Darblay to Kymmene alone. Officials said Stora had
informed Kymmene and French authorities as early as mid-May
they wouldn't proceed with the purchase.
   Officials said Kymmene exercised a clause in the accord
giving them the right of first refusal to Stora's stake.
   The purchase price for Chapelle Darblay was 1.32 billion
French francs ($231.2 million).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Kollmorgen Corp.:
   Investor Group Raises Stake
   In Motors Maker to 19.5%
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   KOL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   A group including Tinicum Enterprises Inc. of Garden City,
N.Y., said it raised its stake in Kollmorgen Corp. to the
equivalent of 19.5%.
   In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, the group
said it bought 707,100 shares in the open market from May 11
to June 12 for $10.50 to $11.80 each, or a total of $7.9
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The group now controls 2,424,691 Kollmorgen common shares,
assuming the conversion of Series D preferred stock it holds.
   In March, Kollmorgen, a Simsbury, Conn., manufacturer of
motors and electro-optical systems, sold preferred stock
convertible into 11.9% of Kollmorgen on a fully diluted basis
to Tinicum. The sale was made during Vernitron Corp.'s
unsuccessful attempt to take control of Kollmorgen's board.
   Vernitron, a closely held Deer Park, N.Y., manufacturer of
motors and controls, recently reduced its stake in Kollmorgen
to 4.8%.
   Kollmorgen couldn't be reached for comment. In New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, Kollmorgen's
shares were unchanged at $11.625.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Ex-Texas Bank Aide
   Gets 12-Year Sentence
   For Committing Fraud
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   AUSTIN, Texas -- A federal judge ordered Richard Homer
Taylor, the former president of National Bank of Texas to
serve 12 years in prison, the maximum sentence, for
committing fraud that contributed to the Austin bank's
demise.
   Judge James Nowlin of the U.S. district court here also
ordered Mr. Taylor to pay $19,099 in restitution to the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.; to pay $505,000 in other
fines; and to make restitution of $221,000 to Franklin
Federal Bancorp of Austin, the receiver for a defunct thrift
that had losses from loans to Mr. Taylor.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In January, Mr. Taylor pleaded guilty to two counts of
bank fraud and one count of income-tax fraud stemming from a
scheme in which other individuals obtained loans at his
direction and later transferred the loan proceeds to him.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Petroleum Futures Tumble on Inventory Report,
   Then Rebound on Rumors of Lower OPEC Output
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Petroleum futures prices fell sharply and then rebounded
in a roller-coaster oil market.
   Oil-supply reports figured prominently in the volatile
trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Petroleum futures were generally higher by the end of the
trading day. But a bearish weekly report from the American
Petroleum Institute, released late Tuesday after trading had
closed, cut short the sizzling rally that had sent gasoline
and crude oil futures surging. The report showed U.S.
inventories of crude oil climbed nearly 1.3 million barrels
last week while those for gasoline rose 500,000 barrels
instead of declining as had been anticipated.
   As a result of the statistics, futures prices of both
crude oil and gasoline were driven down at the opening of
trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday. The
July gasoline contract quickly lost about half its
day-earlier surge of 2.62 cents a gallon, and July crude
promptly dropped 34 cents a barrel.
   But then, after prices had steadied at the lower level,
rumors began circulating late in the day that output by the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is dropping
faster than had been anticipated. One report had production
down 700,000 barrels a day to 22.9 million barrels daily for
the first half of June.
   That helped revive petroleum futures prices in both the
U.S. and Europe. Feverish buying in the last two hours of
trading on London's International Petroleum Exchange reversed
a slide in the Brent blend crude. The July contract closed
slightly higher.
   The turnabout was even more pronounced on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. July crude rebounded from a low of
$17.17 a barrel to settle at $17.58, up seven cents for the
day. July gasoline closed 0.35 cent a gallon higher to settle
at 58.85 cents.
   Some oil analysts were skeptical that OPEC production for
the first half of the month could yet be estimated
accurately. Still, various monitors of OPEC production are
estimating that production is declining further in June after
the slight drop in May.
   "We are getting figures around 23.3 million {barrels a
day}, slightly lower than the 23.5 million for May," said
Antonio M. Szabo, president of Bonner &amp; Moore Management
Science, Houston. However, he cited the cuts being made in
pricing formulas for July crude sales by several OPEC members
as more than offsetting the production decline so far as oil
markets are concerned. "The main issue in OPEC is no longer
volume, it's price," he said.
   In a separate development concerning oil markets, the
London-based International Petroleum Exchange, or IPE, and
the Singapore International Monetary Exchange, or Simex,
agreed to cooperate on development of their individual sour
(high sulfur) crude oil futures contracts. The exchanges
jointly announced that their specifications of the contract
for Dubai, the Middle East benchmark for the sour crudes,
will be identical.
   Contracts based on the Dubai crude will begin trading on
the Simex next Thursday and on the IPE July 19.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices declined, with gold and
silver dropping to new life-of-contract lows. August-delivery
gold ended with a loss of $4 an ounce at $355.10 after
trading at a new low of $353.90. July silver traded to a new
low of $4.930 an ounce before barely recovering to end at
$4.933, down 10.7 cents. July platinum was off $8.20 an ounce
to $481.20. Selling of gold bullion in Hong Kong by Japanese
investors was the principal weakening factor, according to
one analyst. He noted that a decline in May U.S. retail
sales, particularly in durable goods, as well as a drop in
early June U.S. auto sales were also depressants because they
tended to indicate a recessionary rather than an inflationary
trend, which would create demand for precious metals as a
hedge. The dollar was down against foreign currencies, but it
had no discernible impact on precious metals, he said. Gold
may get very little support from investors during the coming
months, the analyst said, because demand for bullion usually
slackens in both Europe and the Far East during the summer
vacation period.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS and SOYBEANS: Prices of corn futures contracts
slumped amid profit-taking by traders. Most analysts had
expected prices to rise yesterday in the wake of the
Agriculture Department's decision after the close of trading
Tuesday to raise by 50 million bushels its estimate of U.S.
corn exports through the fall. But the rally Tuesday of
several corn futures contracts to life-of-contract high
prices apparently set the stage for the wave of
profit-taking. Prices of most wheat and soybean futures
contracts also slipped slightly on a lack of news directly
involving U.S. markets. The Soviet Union was rumored to have
purchased as much as 500,000 metric tons of South American
soybean meal and as much as one million metric tons of wheat
from Western Europe.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices fell back from Tuesday's rally on
selling prompted by weak economic reports. The July delivery
dropped one cent a pound to $1.0960. U.S. retail sales
decreased 0.7% in May, the Commerce Department reported.
April's retail sales were also revised downward to show a
drop of 0.9% from 0.6% earlier. The May decline was greater
than economists had expected. Sales of durable goods in May
fell 1.1% after dropping 1.7% in April. Auto sales in May
decreased 0.6% after falling 1.6% in April, the Commerce
Department said. Domestic auto sales are estimated to have
reached a 6.3 million unit seasonally adjusted annual rate in
early June, Dow Jones News Service reported. Industry
analysts had generally expected an annual rate of about 6.6
million units in the June 1-10 period, the report said. The
Commerce Department yesterday said that U.S. privately owned
housing units completed during April were down 5.9% from
March and down 16.3% from a year earlier. The number of units
under construction at the end of April were down 0.6% from
the previous month, the department said. Durable goods
generally, and the automobile and housing industries in
particular, are significant users of copper and any weakness
in them portends a decreased consumption of copper.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Schering AG:
   Results for First 5 Months
   Softened by Mark's Strength
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   G.SCH
</CO>
<LP>
   Schering AG said that the West German mark's strength
relative to other currencies continues to undermine the
company's sales and earnings, and that in the first five
months of this year, world-wide group sales rose just 3% from
a year earlier.
   The West German pharmaceutical and chemical company didn't
disclose five-month sales figures. But it said a soft growth
trend probably will continue through the year. It didn't
estimate five-month profit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chairman Giuseppi Vita reiterated at the annual meeting
that the company still expects sales for 1990 to rise about
5% from a year earlier, and earnings at about the same
levels, because of higher operating costs and the mark's
strength. Last year, Schering profit increased 43% to 225
million marks ($132.7 million), and global sales rose 11% to
5.85 billion marks.
   "For the near future, also for the current business year,
we expect a continued firm growth in sales in terms of
physical volumes," the chairman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph:
   Order for Phone Equipment
   For China's Army Received
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T FREST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co., New York, said it
received a $5 million order from a Chinese electronics
supplier to provide sophisticated telephone equipment for the
Chinese army.
   The agreement to ship digital telephone exchanges to China
Electronic System Equipment Corp. is awaiting U.S. Government
approval. But an AT&amp;T spokesman said the company is confident
it will get clearance, as the order is an extension of a
contract signed in 1985, and the Bush administration recently
renewed Beijing's status as a most-favored trading partner.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The spokesman also said AT&amp;T received permission from the
U.S. and its 16 Western allies to ship transmission equipment
to a joint venture that it set up with Chinese partners in
May 1989. He said AT&amp;T had been awaiting approval for a year
from the Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export
Controls. The venture, AT&amp;T Shanghai Ltd., is owned by
Dutch-based AT&amp;T Network Systems International and by
Shanghai Telecommunications Equipment Factory and Shanghai
Optical Fiber Communications Engineering Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- TCS Enterprises Inc.:
   Firm Posts Quarterly Loss,
   Sees Lower Earnings Ahead
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TCS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TCS Enterprises Inc., San Diego, posted a net loss of
$61,000, or two cents a share, for the second quarter, ended
April 30, and said it expects lower earnings for the rest of
the fiscal year.
   In the year-earlier second quarter, the financial and
business services company earned $538,000, or 17 cents a
share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tom C. Stickel, chairman and chief executive officer, said
that the second-quarter loss resulted from "a reduction in
income from real estate-related projects from last year's
second quarter versus this year." He added that the lower
earnings for the year will result from "a substantial
increase in capital expenditures as we further develop our
publishing efforts."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hughes Aircraft Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   LK GMH GM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Hughes Aircraft Co. said it acquired the
Avicom International unit of Lockheed Corp., Calabasas,
Calif. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Avicom, Pasadena, Calif., is a supplier of audio and video
entertainment and communication systems to the commercial
airline industry. It has about 250 employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hughes, a unit of General Motors Corp., said the
acquisition will allow it to offer aircraft makers and
airlines "complete cabin communications capability, including
data handling, and a total service support network." Hughes
already supplies audio signal distribution systems to the
commercial airline industry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Armstrong World Industries Inc.:
   Thomasville Furniture Unit
   To Buy Plant From Ladd
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LADF ACK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Thomasville Furniture Industries Inc., a unit of Armstrong
World Industries, Inc., said it signed a letter of intent to
buy a furniture manufacturing plant in High Point, N.C., from
Ladd Furniture Inc. The amount wasn't disclosed.
   The purchase, expected to be completed by late July,
includes manufacturing equipment, a 205,000-square-foot
building and about 22 acres of land, the companies announced.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thomasville Furniture's President Frederick B. Starr said
he expects production to begin in 1991. He had no estimate on
eventual employment at the site.
   Thomasville Furniture, based in Thomasville, N.C., and its
affiliates operate plants in North Carolina, Virginia,
Mississippi and Tennessee.
   The proposed purchase is subject to approval by
Thomasville and Armstrong.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CCE Z.SBK EUROP BFI GE JAPAN FORGN PA GM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                        CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. -- $250 million of 8.35% notes
due June 20, 1995 priced at 97.351 to yield 9.02%. The
noncallable notes were priced at a spread of 67 basis points
above the Treasury's five-year note. Rated single-A-2 by
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and double-A-minus by Standard
&amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold through underwriters
led by Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Commercial Credit Corp. -- $100 million of 9.20% notes due
June 15, 1995, priced at 99.899 to yield 9.225%. The
non-callable notes were priced at 87.5 basis points above the
Treasury's five-year note. Rated single-A-2 by Moody's and
single-A-minus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold through
underwriters led by Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

                      MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

   New York City -- $710 million of general obligation bonds
due Feb. 15 and Aug. 1, 1991-2028, tentatively priced by a
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets group to yield from 6.40% in
1991 to 7.90% in 2018-2028. There are no term bonds. The
bonds are rated single-A-minus by S&amp;P. The rating is still
under review by Moody's, but a single-A rating is expected,
according to an official with the lead underwriter.
   Port Authority of New York and New Jersey -- $100 million
of consolidated revenue bonds, 69th Series, due Dec. 1,
1991-1999, and June 1, 2025, with capital appreciation bonds
due Dec. 1, 2000-2011, priced by a Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets group to yield from 5.90% in 1991 to 7.28% in 2025.
Current interest serial bonds are priced at par to yield from
5.90% in 1991 to 6.70% in 1999. The 6.80% serial bonds due in
1999 are priced at par. There is $27.8 million of 7 1/8% term
bonds priced at 98 to yield 7.28% due June 1, 2025. Capital
appreciation bonds are priced to yield from 6.80% in 2000 to
7.10% in 2007-2011. The bonds are rated
single-A-1/double-A-minus.
   Franklin County, Ohio -- $97.5 million of convention
center revenue bonds due Dec. 1, 1994-1999, 2019 and 2020,
with capital appreciation bonds due 2000-2010, tentatively
priced by a PaineWebber Inc. group to yield from 6.30% in
1994 to 7.23% in 2019. Current interest serial bonds are
priced at par to yield from 6.30% in 1994 to 6.80% in 1999.
There are $52 million of 7% term bonds priced at 97 1/4 to
yield 7.23% in 2019 and $8 million of 6% term bonds priced at
86 to yield 7.13% in 2020. Capital appreciation bonds are
priced to yield from 6.90% in 2000 to 7.20% in 2008-2010. The
bonds are insured and triple-A-rated.
   Albuquerque, N.M. -- $88 million of Joint Water and Sewer
System revenue bonds, Series 1990A, due July 1, 2015, with
capital appreciation bonds due 2003-2008 and Series B, due
1991-2003 and 2006, tentatively priced by a Smith Barney
group to yield from 6.15% in 1991 to 7.22% in 2015. Series A
consists of $41.8 million of 6% bonds priced at 86 to yield
7.22% in 2015. Capital appreciation bonds are priced to yield
from 7.10% in 2003 and 2004 to 7.20% in 2007 and 2008. Series
B current interest serial bonds are priced to yield from
6.15% in 1992 to 7.05% in 2003. Serial bonds due in 1991 are
not formally reoffered. There are $13.4 million of 7% term
bonds priced at 98.58 to yield 7.15% in 2006. The bonds are
rated single-A-1/double-A, except for capital appreciation
bonds, which are insured and triple-A-rated.
   Connecticut Housing Finance Authority -- $83.8 million of
housing bonds due Nov. 15, 1995-2004 and 2009, tentatively
priced by a Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. group to yield from
6.50% in 1995 to 7.50% in 2009. Current interest serial bonds
are priced at par to yield from 6.50% in 1995 to 7.40% in
2004. There are $24.2 million of 7 1/2% term bonds priced at
par due in 2009. Ratings of double-A/double-A-plus are
expected, according to an official with the lead underwriter.
Interest on the bonds will be treated as a preference item in
calculating the federal alternative minimum tax that may be
imposed on certain investors.
   Maryland-National Capital Park Commission -- $59.2 million
of various purpose and refunding revenue bonds due 1991-2010.
A Harris Trust &amp; Savings Bank group placed the winning bid
for $40 million of various purpose and refunding revenue
bonds secured by Prince Georges County, Md. The bonds, rated
double-A/double-A, were priced for reoffering to yield from
5.90% in 1991 to 7.00% in 2008-2010. The remainder of the
issue, $19.2 million of various purpose revenue bonds secured
by Montgomery County, Md., was won by a Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets group. The bonds, rated triple-A, were priced for
reoffering to yield from 6.00% in 1992 to 6.95% in 2008-2010.
Bonds due in 1991 are not formally reoffered.
   Rosemont, Ill. -- $59 million of general obligation
corporate purpose bonds, 1990 Series A, due Dec. 1,
1995-2002, with Series B capital appreciation bonds due
1992-2006 and Series C capital appreciation bonds due
1991-2007, tentatively priced by a Smith Barney group to
yield from 6.20% for bonds due in 1991 to 7.25% in 2006 and
2007. Series A consists of current interest serial bonds
priced at par to yield from 6.40% in 1995 to 7.05% in 2002.
Series B capital appreciation bonds are priced to yield to
maturity from 6.30% in 1992 to 7.25% in 2006. Series C
capital appreciation bonds are priced to yield from 6.20% in
1991 to 7.25% in 2006 and 2007. The bonds are insured and
triple-A-rated.
                                                                                                       

                          MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Union Bank of Switzerland -- $300.2 million of Remic
mortgage securities offered in nine classes by UBS
Securities. The offering, Series UBS Trust 6, is backed by
Ginnie Mae securities with a weighted average coupon rate of
10% and weighted average remaining term to maturity of 29.17
years. Price and yield data weren't immediately available.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Browning-Ferris Industries Inc. (U.S.) -- $350 million
twotranche convertible subordinated debentures due July 18,
2005, via Credit Suisse First Boston for international
tranche of $225 million); U.S. tranche via First Boston Inc.
and Goldman Sachs. Indicated coupon between 6 3/4% and 7% at
par issue price. Expected conversion premium 18% to 22% above
share price when terms are fixed by next Wednesday. Callable
after July 1993 at 103, declining by 1% to par in 1996.
Exercise period Aug. 27, 1990, to maturity. Fees 2 1/2.
   General Electric Capital Corp. (U.S. parent) -- $250
million of 9% Eurobonds due July 5, 1993, priced at 101.45 to
yield 8.97% less fees, via Swiss Bank Corp. Fees 1 3/8.
   Best Ltd. (Cayman Islands) -- $111.3 million of
floatingrate notes due July 1993, priced at 100.10, via
Sumitomo Trust International Ltd. Coupon at 1/4 point above
six-month London interbank offered rate. Secured by 15
billion yen of dual currency depositary receipts issued by
BCI and Cariplo via Law Debenture Trust Corp. Fees 0.01.
   Banco di Sicilia (Italian parent) -- $100 million of
subordinated floating-rate notes through Bankers Trustee Co.
due June 2000, priced at par, via IBJ International. Coupon
in first five years at 1/2 point above six-month Libor and
thereafter at 5/8 point above Libor. Once-only call at end of
fifth year at par. Otherwise, amortized at rate of 20% each
year. Fees 0.25.
   Caisse Nationale des Autoroutes (France) -- 225 million
European currency units of 10 1/2% Eurobonds due July 17,
1995, priced at 101 3/4 to yield 10.53% less fees via Credit
Lyonnais. Guarantee by France. Fees 1 7/8.
   European Investment Bank (agency) -- 20 billion yen of 6
5/8% Eurobonds due March 15, 2000, priced at 100 3/8 via
Nomura International PLC. Fully fungible 91 days after
payment date with existing 40 billion yen deal launched Feb.
21. Fees 1 7/8.
   Japan Development Bank (Japan) -- 150 million Canadian
dollars of 12 1/8% Eurobonds due July 6, 1995, priced at
101.55 to yield 12.21% less fees via IBJ International Ltd.
Guarantee by Japan. Fees 1 7/8.
   World Bank (agency) -- 200 million marks of 9% Eurobonds
due June 29, 2000, priced at 99.50 to yield 9.07%, via
Commerzbank. Guarantee by World Bank. Callable from 1992 to
1995 at par. Fees 1 3/4.
   General Motors Corp. (U.S.) -- 100 million Swiss francs of
7 1/4% privately placed notes due July 6, 1994, priced at 101
3/4, via Credit Suisse. Fees 1.38.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Corporacion Mapfre S.A.:
   Insurer, Continental Corp.
   Set Accord in Puerto Rico
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   E.MAP CIC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Corporacion Mapfre S.A., Spain's leading insurer, said in
Madrid that it agreed to buy a majority stake in Puerto
Rico's biggest insurance group from Continental Corp. of the
U.S. for $100 million.
   Mapfre officials said the purchase is Mapfre's biggest
foreign acquisition to date and is part of a strategy to
expand the group's trans-Atlantic operations. More than half
of Mapfre's international business is in Latin America; it
also has a small operation in the U.S. It plans to use its
Puerto Rican presence to expand its activities in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement with Continental, Mapfre plans to set
up a subsidiary in Puerto Rico to take a stake in the
insurance business of Puerto Rican American Insurance Co, or
Praico, and in some of its assets and liabilities.
   The Praico assets concerned include two subsidiaries,
Preferred Risk, a general insurance company, and Security
National Life Insurance Co., a life insurance specialist.
   Simultaneously, Mapfre's subsidiary Mapfre Internacional
will take a majority stake in Panamerican Corp., a holding
company that controls Pan American Insurance Co, Pan American
Finance Corp. and Puerto Rican Insurance Agency.
   Together, these firms form the Praico group, Puerto Rico's
biggest insurer with gross 1989 premium revenues of $83.5
million. Mapfre said it plans to finance the investment
through an issue of new shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sussex Trust Co.:
   Wilmington Trust Will Buy
   Bank in $68 Million Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WILM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Wilmington Trust Co. said it agreed to acquire Sussex
Trust Co. for $68 million, or $42.50 a share, in a tax-free
stock swap.
   Sussex Trust stockholders will receive between 1.037 and
1.149 shares of Wilmington Trust stock for each share of
Sussex stock, depending on the average market price of
Wilmington stock during the 20 days before the transaction
receives regulatory approval.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the plan, a holding company for Wilmington Trust
will operate the two banks. They will remain Wilmington Trust
Co. in northern Delaware and Sussex Trust in Southern
Delaware.
   Sussex has $420 million in assets and 20 locations in the
state.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- KLM Royal Dutch Airlines:
   Carrier Reports Net Income
   Dropped 8% in Fiscal 1990
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   KLM EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hurt by costs that rose faster than its income, KLM Royal
Dutch Airlines reported final figures that showed that its
profit in the year ended March 30, dropped 8% to 340 million
guilders ($178 million) from 370 million guilders.
   In terms of its per-share profit, KLM reported that this
figure declined 9.1% to 6.43 guilders from 7.08 guilders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although KLM reported that its revenue in the most recent
fiscal year rose by 8.2% to 6.46 billion guilders from the
year-earlier level of 5.97 billion guilders, this advance was
outstripped by a rise in costs of 10% to 6.150 billion
guilders from 5.581 billion guilders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Barclays Bank PLC:
   Company Intends to Raise
   $100 Million in U.S. Issue
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   BCS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Barclays Bank PLC said yesterday it plans to raise $100
million through an issue of preference shares to U.S.
investors.
   The British bank said the fixed-rate, noncumulative
dollar-denominated preference shares will be redeemable at
the option of the bank in 10 years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Brian Worsley, assistant treasurer of Barclays, said the
bank may raise more than the level announced depending upon
market reaction.
   He noted that Barclays's entry into the U.S.
preference-share market last year began with a planned $200
million issue, but eventually it blossomed to $500 million
after strong interest was shown among investors.
   And he added that Barclays has the ability to raise
additional dollar capital under a shelf registration filed a
number of months ago with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, notifying the SEC that it planned to raise up to
$500 million through additional preference shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Cable &amp; Wireless PLC:
   Pretax Profit for Fiscal '90
   Rose 25% to $898 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CWP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cable &amp; Wireless PLC of Britain, a telecommunications
concern, reported pretax profit for the year ended March 31
jumped 25% to #527 million ($898 million) -- exceeding market
forecasts -- from #420 million a year earlier, citing strong
results in Asia and its British domestic phone service.
   Sales rose 51% to #2.32 billion from #1.53 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cable &amp; Wireless also said Lord Young, former secretary of
state for the Department of Trade and Industry, is to become
executive chairman, succeeding Lord Sharp, who is to retire
Oct. 1. Lord Young headed the agency last June, when it
awarded Cable &amp; Wireless a license to develop and operate a
new generation of public mobile telephones for the 1990s.
   Fiscal 1990 profit after taxes and minority interests and
before special items rose 15% to #328 million from #285
million a year earlier. Earnings per share rose 12% to 31.3
pence from 27.9 pence. Gains of #487 million in the latest
period and #129 million a year earlier were from sales of
shares in a unit and associated companies. Profit
attributable to shareholders nearly doubled to #815 million
from #414 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Liberty Corp. Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LC H.IEP A.BRY
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   GREENEVILLE, S.C. -- Liberty Corp. said it agreed to buy
back 760,591, or 8.9%, of its common shares outstanding from
Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd. for $50 a share, or $38
million.
   The insurance holding company said Hong Kong-based
Industrial Equity agreed to limit its future holding in
Liberty to up to 4.9% of Liberty's 8.5 million common shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Tate &amp; Lyle PLC:
   Firm Confident on Pursuing
   Berisford, Despite Inquiry
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.TAT U.BRF EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tate &amp; Lyle PLC said it remains confident it will be
allowed eventually to bid for Berisford International PLC,
despite the British government's ordering an investigation of
the competitive effect of the two sugar concerns' combining.
   The Department of Trade and Industry yesterday ordered a
Monopolies and Mergers Commission inquiry, to be completed
Sept. 28. A 1987 bid by Tate &amp; Lyle for Berisford was blocked
on competitive grounds. Merging the two producers would leave
Tate &amp; Lyle in control of 95% of Britain's sugar supplies.
Berisford officials weren't available to comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tate &amp; Lyle hasn't indicated what price it is willing to
pay for Berisford, a financially troubled conglomerate that
also has financial services and property operations. In the
year ended Sept. 30, Berisford had a net loss attributable to
shareholders of #24.6 million ($41.9 million), reversing
year-earlier profit of #33.2 million; pretax profit rose 5.7%
to #107.3 million. Tate &amp; Lyle reiterated that terms of any
offer will depend on the value and financial standing of
Berisford's non-sugar interests.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE SOVIET UNION AGREED to ease an economic embargo of
Lithuania.
   Breaking a deadlock, Moscow said it would restore some
fuel and raw-material shipments to the breakaway republic.
The two-month embargo, imposed in response to a Lithuanian
independence declaration, was eased as the republic's premier
met in Moscow with Kremlin officials. Meanwhile, the Soviet
Parliament told the government to refine its economic
restructuring program, but endorsed the thrust of it. An
official said a threefold rise in bread prices would be
postponed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The White House hailed the easing of the economic blockade
against Lithuania. Bush said he hoped Moscow was beginning to
defuse the Baltic crisis.
   ---
   ROMANIAN SOLDIERS FIRED on anti-government demonstrators
in Bucharest.
   Witnesses said the shooting outside the former
secret-police headquarters capped a day of violence.
Protesters attacked state TV offices and burned another
police building in what President Iliescu termed a right-wing
coup attempt. The Soviet news agency Tass reported four
deaths, but one witness said she helped carry 12 bodies.
Earlier, police clubbed and dragged away protesters who had
staged a 53-day demonstration in a central square of the
city.
   Anti-government protesters blocked important downtown
intersections and paralyzed traffic in the capital cities of
Yugoslavia and Bulgaria.
   ---
   Sununu plans to travel to Moscow to help Gorbachev set up
his newly established office as president of the Soviet
Union. The White House chief of staff will advise officials
who run the office on matters including policy development
and how to court legislators.
   ---
   Israel's Shamir said that "to a great extent" the U.S.
bears blame for Arab nations' warlike rhetoric. In an
interview, the prime minister urged U.S. action to end the
Arab perception that U.S.-Israel relations are fraying. In
Washington, Secretary of State Baker criticized Israel's
reluctance to enter peace talks.
   ---
   Washington's Mayor Barry announced he wouldn't seek
re-election. The decision by Barry, who is facing drug
possession and perjury charges, is apparently part of an
effort to revive plea-bargain talks with federal prosecutors.
The discussions reportedly broke down over a week ago.
   ---
   Sen. Durenberger made a plea to the Senate Ethics
Committee for compassion and clemency in judging his
financial dealings as committee hearings ended after two
days. In a move that seemed to surprise the panel, the
Minnesota Republican decided not to call witnesses or offer
further testimony.
   ---
   An Islamic political leader demanded that the Algerian
government dissolve Parliament and schedule early national
elections after his party, the Islamic Salvation Front,
scored an upset victory against the ruling party in local
balloting. Tuesday's elections were the first multiparty
contests since French rule ended in 1962.
   ---
   Jury selection began in the trial of three of the six
teen-agers charged with raping and almost killing a woman
jogger in New York's Central Park in April 1989. The
29-year-old investment banker, who sustained brain damage in
the incident, recently returned to work at Salomon Bros. The
trial is expected to last about eight weeks.
   ---
   Five European nations will sign an accord next week
removing all immigration controls among them, allowing people
to travel freely in an area accounting for almost half of the
EC. The accord, to take effect by the end of 1991, will link
France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg.
   ---
   A House subcommittee approved a $15.8 billion fiscal 1991
foreign operations bill that would reduce U.S. military aid
by 12.5% outside the Mideast and substantially increase
economic assistance to Africa and Eastern Europe.
   ---
   A West German businessman admitted he illegally delivered
sophisticated equipment and technical plans to Libya for a
chemical plant at Rabta, a suspected chemical-weapons
facility. Juergen Hippenstiel-Imhausen, former head of
Imhausen Chemie, is on trial in Frankfurt for alleged
violations of export laws and tax evasion.
   ---
   Strong winds hampered efforts to contain crude oil leaking
from a fire-ravaged supertanker in the Gulf of Mexico. The
Coast Guard said at least three million gallons of oil
spilled from the Mega Borg, but that most of it has burned or
evaporated.
   ---
   Tamil guerrillas battled government troops in northern and
eastern Sri Lanka, ignoring a just-announced cease-fire,
residents and military officials said. The Indian Ocean
island's deputy defense minister characterized the situation
as "war."
   ---
   Peace talks collapsed between Mozambique's left-wing
government and rightist insurgents meeting in Zimbabwe. A
statement by the governments of Malawi, Mozambique and
Zimbabwe blamed the breakdown on the rebels and a Kenyan
delegation.
   ---
   The Liberian government and rebels met for almost three
hours in their first full day of talks in Sierra Leone aimed
at ending a civil war that has resulted in the deaths of
hundreds of civilians.
   ---
   Mandela said in France he was confident that EC leaders
would opt to maintain sanctions against South Africa. The
black nationalist leader is conducting a tour of Europe and
North America.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Zealand
   Picks Baby Bells
   To Buy Telecom
   ---
   Ameritech and Bell Atlantic
   Will Pay $2.46 Billion
   For Nation's Phone Firm
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale and David B. Hilder
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST AIT BEL SBC CWP A.BRY A.FLC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   The New Zealand government chose Ameritech and Bell
Atlantic Corp. as joint buyers of Telecom Corp., its
state-owned telephone company, for about $2.46 billion.
   As part of the agreement, two New Zealand companies, the
Freightways Holdings Ltd. conglomerate and Fay, Richwhite
Holdings Ltd. merchant bank, will buy a stake of less than 1%
in Telecom that will increase to 10% in the next three years.
During the same period, Bell Atlantic and Ameritech will
reduce their combined stake to 49.9% by making a series of
public stock offerings in New Zealand, Britain and the U.S.,
beginning as early as 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The joint purchase represents an overseas coup for the two
regional Bell telephone companies, both of which view the
move as a strategic opportunity. In winning Telecom, they
outbid several U.S., Australian and New Zealand rivals,
including a joint venture of Southwestern Bell Corp. and OTC
Ltd., an Australian long-distance telephone company; Cable &amp;
Wireless PLC, a giant British company that owns Hong Kong
Telecom, among other businesses; Brierley Investments Ltd., a
New Zealand investment firm with stakes in several U.S.
industrial companies; and Fletcher Challenge, a building
products and timber concern that is New Zealand's largest
company.
   Last year, Ameritech and Bell Atlantic bid together
unsuccessfully for a lucrative license to build and operate
West Germany's first private cellular-phone system. Their bid
came very close, and insiders say the bond of mutual
allegiance they forged during that experience endured. When
the New Zealand system was put on the auction block in March,
they quietly teamed up again.
   Both companies, like other regional Bells, have sought to
expand beyond their service territories. Both also have been
sitting on piles of cash. At the end of last year, Ameritech
had cash of $520.2 million; Bell Atlantic had $164.2 million.
   The Telecom auction was managed for the New Zealand
government by CS First Boston Group, a New York investment
banking firm, and the New Zealand firm of Buttle Wilson Ltd.
The sale process was substantially completed last night when
the agreement was approved by the New Zealand cabinet and
signed by company and government representatives.
   News of the award wasn't announced last night until about
10 p.m. New York time. In composite trading yesterday on the
New York Stock Exchange, Ameritech shares closed at $65, down
25 cents; Bell Atlantic closed at $52.375, also down 25
cents.
   New Zealand decided to sell Telecom Corp. as part of an
asset-sale program to raise funds to repay debt. The
government will keep a special-rights preference share,
locally nicknamed the "Kiwi share," that will enable it to
influence Telecom's future ownership structure and ensure
that the new owners don't cut telephone service or raise
prices by more than the country's inflation rate.
   Earlier this year, New Zealand decided to open up the
telecommunications market to competition. Already a group of
companies including MCI Communications Corp. and Bell Canada
Enterprises Inc. have announced plans to merge their New
Zealand telecommunications ventures to position themselves
better to compete against the nation's telephone giant.
   Telecom, with 16,500 employees, 1.1 million customers and
about 1.4 million access lines, represents an attractive
prize. Revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31 was about
$1.3 billion. Profits, supressed somewhat by recent heavy
spending to improve the network, totaled about $148 million.
The company expects its network to be 90% digital by the end
of this year.
   For cautious Chicago-based Ameritech, the least
diversified of the seven Bell companies, the New Zealand move
is a particularly bold one. Almost all of Ameritech's 1989
revenue of $10.21 billion came from its five Bell operating
companies, directory publishing and cellular operations. But
more recently, Ameritech has expressed determination to push
in new directions rather than risk falling behind its
siblings and other rivals.
   In April, for example, William Weiss, Ameritech's
chairman, told shareholders that his management would "search
throughout the world" for the right expansion opportunities.
   Philadelphia-based Bell Atlantic could find different
advantages in the venture. For instance, operating in New
Zealand will help the company supplement efforts to provide
premium-priced, high-margin services in the U.S. So far, its
overseas diversification has concentrated on such
customer-based offerings as computer maintenance, software
and systems integration.
   At Bell Atlantic's annual meeting in April, Raymond Smith,
chairman, said the company was looking at a wide range of
overseas investments, from cellular and network businesses to
systems integration. "It's a whole new world," he said, "full
of promise and opportunity."
   While the long-term rewards could be considerable, the
risks in New Zealand may be somewhat tougher on Bell Atlantic
than its partner. Bell Atlantic already has significantly
more long-term debt than Ameritech, about $7.7 billion
compared with $5.1 billion, and its debt as a portion of
total capital is 10 percentage points higher at 52.4%.
   Despite the extra obstacles of operating overseas, the
Bells have been eager to expand abroad because the consent
decree that broke up the Bell System in 1984 restricts their
business activities in the U.S. Under the decree, the
companies can't provide the content of electronic information
services.
   They are forbidden to manufacture telecommunications
equipment or offer long-distance services. Indeed, the
long-distance constraint has complicated the prospects for
participation by the Bells in a number of privatization
programs abroad, including New Zealand, Mexico and Puerto
Rico.
   The sale is scheduled to close in mid-September. Before
buying Telecom, Bell Atlantic and Ameritech must obtain a
waiver of the consent decree for operating certain
long-distance telephone services such as the service between
the U.S. and New Zealand that Telecom currently controls.
   The price paid by Bell Atlantic and Ameritech is to be
split evenly between the two companies. A total of 1.86
billion New Zealand dollars will be paid in six equal monthly
payments, beginning at the closing of the acquisition; a
single payment of about $1.38 billion will be made at the
closing.
   The Telecom sale will be the largest commercial
transaction in the history of New Zealand. The price is
higher than that received by the British government in its
1985 privatization of British Telecom.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Hollywood Studios, TV Networks
   Suspend Their Talks on Rerun Issue
   ---
   FCC to Begin Formal Study
   Of Syndication Rules,
   May Ease Restrictions
   ----
   By Dennis Kneale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB CBS GE TWX
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Negotiators for the three major broadcast
networks and Hollywood's major studios broke off all talks
aimed at reaching a compromise on how to ease federal
regulations blocking the networks from the $3 billion-a-year
syndication business.
   The collapse of the private talks yesterday shifts the
battle over the rerun business to Washington and the Federal
Communications Commission, a destination that both sides had
hoped to avoid. The breakdown came as the FCC was preparing
to begin a formal review of the so-called Financial Interest
and Syndication Rules with an eye toward imposing an FCC plan
for easing the restrictions, unless Hollywood and the
networks were able to agree on a plan of their own.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Various parties in the fight over whether the networks
should be allowed to share in rerun profits will file
arguments to the FCC today.
   The networks had been willing to "live with something less
than the complete elimination of the rerun rules" if a
compromise with the studios could have been reached, said
Stephen A. Weiswasser, general counsel of Capital Cities/ABC
Inc. and the lead negotiator for the networks. But with the
collapse of the talks yesterday, all three major networks now
are likely to argue for a wholesale scuttling of the rerun
rules when they make their FCC filings today, he said.
   Officials from both sides met with FCC Chairman Alfred
Sikes a week ago to apprise him of the lack of progress made
in the negotiations. Negotiators for the studios, led by
Warner Bros. Chairman Bob Daly, then asked the FCC to extend
its June 14 deadline for filings on the rerun issue. That
would have given the networks and the production companies
that supply most prime-time programming more time to craft a
solution of their own making.
   But network officials opposed extending the deadline as a
way to turn up the heat on the studios and perhaps push them
into a compromise -- a move that backfired yesterday as the
FCC deadline drew near.
   Both sides were supposed to meet on Tuesday of this week,
but Hollywood negotiators backed out and said that -- because
the networks hadn't agreed to a deadline extension -- they
were busy preparing their FCC filings. Then Mr. Weiswasser
and Mr. Daly of Time Warner Inc.'s Warner Bros. studio met
one-on-one later Tuesday night, huddling in a bar at the
Century Plaza for almost three hours.
   There, the two negotiators came up with a rough outline
for how the rerun rules might be eased and were hopeful the
talks could reconvene yesterday morning. But the session
never took place, and accounts differ as to why.
   Mr. Weiswasser of ABC said the producers asked for "all
kinds of preconditions" before sitting down for an
eleventh-hour session, and network negotiators were unwilling
to go along. But Warner's Mr. Daly countered that the
preconditions -- an agreement to limit the talks to only
certain major points and leave other areas off the table --
were Mr. Weiswasser's idea. "What happened, bottom line, is
he just couldn't deliver his team," and officials of the
other networks wouldn't go along, Mr. Daly said.
   When the two sides couldn't even agree on the ground rules
for their final meeting set before the FCC deadline today,
they canceled the session altogether.
   Both sides now run a risk in letting the negotiations
falter and throwing the nettlesome issue to the FCC. But
network officials have less to lose because the rerun rules,
as they exist, don't offer the networks any piece of the
lucrative rerun business.
   FCC Chairman Sikes seems intent on giving the networks
some relief from the rules, which were first imposed in 1970
at a time when the Big Three controlled over 90% of the
viewing audience. The networks have argued loudly for killing
the restrictions now that their share of the TV audience is
down to a combined 65% and in light of the mergers of such
huge rivals as Time Warner Inc. and acquisitions of U.S.
studios by such foreign rivals as Sony Corp.
   In the one-on-one meeting Tuesday night, Mr. Daly and Mr.
Weiswasser agreed to narrow the negotiations to a limit on
in-house series production at the networks; a limit on how
many made-for-TV movies the networks would produce
themselves; and language that would stop the networks from
demanding ownership stakes from producers.
   But Mr. Daly called the next morning with new specifics
and a new demand: before sitting down, the networks would
have to agree to cut, by half, the number of movies they make
in-house. Mr. Weiswasser called back an hour later with the
networks' verdict: "no preconditions." Mr. Daly countered:
"OK, no meeting," according to Mr. Weiswasser. Mr. Daly
concedes making some new demands but said the networks were
unwilling to narrow the talks in the way he and Mr.
Weiswasser had agreed.
   No further meetings between the two sides are scheduled,
as the FCC today receives opinion filings on whether the
rerun restrictions should be changed. The panel may come up
with a new plan governing the rerun business by year-end.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board
   Plans Trades
   After Hours
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange said it plans to
start "after-hours" trading later this year, and it may
expand to overnight trading in 1991.
   The plans for trading after traditional hours, under
discussion for two years, marked the first step in the Big
Board's slow evolution to electronic trading of stocks. The
exchange's specialists, or floor traders assigned to make
markets in individual stocks, won't participate physically in
an after-hours scheme, but they may share in the revenue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Current trading hours are from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m.,
Eastern time.
   The plans are sure to stir unrest on the Big Board floor.
Top specialists in recent weeks have said they didn't
anticipate that the Big Board would soon go ahead with
after-hours trading.
   But now the exchange seems anxious to give the impression
that it is moving forward in an area that many critics have
said it has been slow to pursue.
   The Big Board has seen an outflow of its traditional
trading business to overseas and to U.S. regional exchanges.
More important, the Big Board is facing strong competition
from an increasing array of electronic networks and private
dealers.
   A Big Board spokesman said the exchange is prepared to
"quickly put a system in place" for after-hours trading,
assuming the market wants one.
   The American Stock Exchange, industry executives said,
also has a number of electronic trading plans in the works.
It is close to announcing a new after-hours trading system
for options.
   Kenneth Leibler, president of the American exchange, said
after-hours trading is "clearly a trend of the 1990s. I think
globalization has been something widely discussed in the
'80s, and it will happen in the '90s. Extended trading is
probably something every market, depending on its product
mix, will probably participate in."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Retail Sales
   Declined 0.7%
   During May
   ---
   Economists Say the Drop,
   Third in as Many Months,
   May Not Mean Recession
   ----
   By Tuesday Georges
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Retail sales fell 0.7% in May, marking the
first time since 1981 that they have fallen for three
consecutive months, the Commerce Department said.
   The May decline followed drops of 0.9% in April and 0.4%
in March. Nevertheless, economists say the three-month
decline, while reflecting continued weakness in the overall
economy, doesn't necessarily foreshadow a recession.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The figures show some sign of economic weakness, but a
good part of that is just a distortion {caused by} the
weather," said Thomas Swanstrom, chief economist for Sears
Merchandise Group in Chicago. He cited unusually cool weather
in certain regions, and concluded: "I think the jury is still
out as to whether this is really some sign of economic
weakness or if this is just some type of aberration."
   Departing somewhat from Mr. Swanstrom's view, Rosalind
Wells, chief economist for National Retail Federation, said,
"It is hard to keep blaming it {the drop} on the weather. The
weakness is pretty widespread . . . which indicates an
overall weakening in the economy."
   Analyst did agree that the decline indicates consumers
have become more cautious in the past few months due to a
slowdown in employment growth and a slump in home sales and
prices.
   May's drop in sales, just as the April decline, was
widespread with declines in all sales categories except
apparel.
   Auto sales fell 0.6% in May compared with a 1.6% decline
in April. Hardware and building material purchases tumbled
4.2% after diving 3.2% in April. Furniture sales dropped 1.1%
after rising 0.5% the month before. Sales at general
merchandise department stores fell 1% after declining 2.1% in
April. However, apparel sales jumped 2.4% after falling a
like percentage a month earlier.
   Excluding auto sales, which tend to vary widely from month
to month, retail sales were down 0.8% in May after dropping
0.7% in April.
   But some analysts were skeptical that the overall May
sales decline was as sharp as the department figures suggest.
"I would not be surprised if the revised numbers aren't quite
as bad as these figures indicate," said Ms. Wells.
   She also suggested that sales may rise later this year
compared with the May figures. "It is not a glowing sales
report, and it should be taken seriously. . . . But I expect
retail sales to improve as the year goes on," she said.
   Retail purchases totaled $146.84 billion in May after
adjusting for seasonal flucuations, compared with total sales
of $147.93 billion in April.
   The department's estimates are based on a relatively small
sample of reports and frequently are revised significantly as
more data are collected. The numbers exclude spending on
services, which account for a large portion of consumer
outlays. But retail sales account for about one-third of the
country's economic activity, and thus those figures are
closely watched by economists.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News:
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW ZEALAND CHOSE Ameritech and Bell Atlantic to buy its
state-owned phone company for $2.46 billion. The U.S. firms
agreed to reduce their combined stake to 49.9% over three
years. The purchase is a coup for the Bell companies, which
outbid rivals from the U.S., New Zealand, Australia and
Britain.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The New York Stock Exchange plans to start after-hours
trading later this year and may expand to overnight trading
in 1991.
   ---
   Trump's tentative accord with bankers may be imperiled, as
a number of creditors are balking at its terms. The
developer's Castle casino has a bond payment due tomorrow.
   ---
   Chrysler's debt is being reviewed by Moody's for possible
downgrading. The review, covering $22.28 billion in debt,
will focus on prospects for improving operating performance
and market share. The auto manufacturer called the move
"inappropriate."
   ---
   U.S.-Japanese trade talks are stalled, top Bush officials
say, and the president and Kaifu may have to meet soon to
defuse tensions. U.S. aides say Japan is foot-dragging.
   ---
   The thrift-bailout agency sold 13,200 foreclosed S&amp;L
properties since August, but its real estate inventory still
grew 14% to 35,908 properties, valued at $14.92 billion when
seized.
   ---
   Retail sales fell 0.7% in May. It was the first time they
dropped three consecutive months since 1981. Economists say
the decline reflects continued economic weakness but doesn't
necessarily foreshadow a recession.
                                                                                                       

   The retail data drove bond prices higher but helped push
stocks slightly lower. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell
3.47 points to 2929.95.
   ---
   Former Texas thrift owner Don R. Dixon was charged with
making illegal political contributions.
   ---
   Chase Manhattan is considering selling assets and cutting
back some activities. Foreign-exchange trading and European
corporate finance are areas where pruning is possible.
   ---
   Insurers' exemption from U.S. antitrust law would be
partly repealed under a bill cleared by a House panel.
                                                                                                       

   California ordered insurers to cut rates 20% unless that
would put their return on equity below 11.2%.
   ---
   RJR Nabisco's junk bonds soared on a reported plan by KKR
to inject $1.7 billion into the company.
   ---
   Prudential-Bache forced out its president in an effort to
turn its fortunes around and named a veteran of its parent
firm to be vice chairman.
   ---
   Hollywood studios and the TV networks broke off talks
aimed at a compromise over whether the broadcasters may share
in rerun profits.
   ---
   A weekly junk-bond auction is scheduled to start next
month in an effort to make it easier to trade the securities.
Some of the market's major players plan to participate.
   ---
   P&amp;G agreed to buy most of American Cyanamid's men's
toiletries and fragrance unit for up to $370 million.
   ---
   Britain restricted the use of Imperial Chemical's
once-promising heart drug, Corwin, and the firm withdrew a
request to market it in the U.S.
   ---
   The SEC voted to seek public comment on ways to update the
50-year-old statute governing mutual funds.
   ---
   Dutch publisher Elsevier intends to sell its 33% stake in
rival Wolters Kluwer, which has repeatedly rebuffed advances
by Elsevier.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 158,910,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2929.95, off 3.47; transportation 1204.56, off 4.20;
utilities 213.97, off 1.07.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3446.44, up
25.09.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.38, off 0.68;
spot index 130.95, off 0.68.
   Dollar: 154.75 yen, up 0.20; 1.6865 marks, off 0.0100.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Group to Award
   Environmental
   Seals of Approval
   ----
   By Randolph B. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PG
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   A nonprofit group is launching the first national
environmental seal of approval in an effort to clear up
growing confusion over products claiming to be
"environmentally friendly."
   The Green Seal Inc. program, which is to be announced
today in New York, seeks to provide consumers with a
"reliable" guide for choosing products, while encouraging
manufacturers to reduce waste and pollution. Green Seal would
set standards, test products and award a seal of approval
based on environmental impact during a product's entire life
cycle, from manufacturing to disposal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We want to harness the individual buying decisions of
millions of consumers to bring about real change in the
manufacture, use and disposal of products," said Alice Tepper
Marlin, a Green Seal board member and founder of the Council
on Economic Priorities, a New York-based research group.
   There is broad agreement on the need for national
guidelines to stop the current explosion of false and
misleading environmental claims. But critics worry that Green
Seal could add to the confusion if it isn't well coordinated
with other regulatory efforts or if consumers don't
understand what the seals mean.
   Procter &amp; Gamble Co., a major consumer-products maker,
said seal programs aren't in the best interests of consumers
because they don't provide "full information" describing
environmental claims. "Consumers want to know why a product
has the seal," said Robert Viney, a P&amp;G environmental
official. As currently proposed, the Green Seal wouldn't
include explanations, such as "made of 100% recycled paper."
Mr. Viney also said Green Seal's judgments could be flawed or
inconsistent because there is no consensus on how to do
complex "cradle-to-grave" product comparisons. As an
alternative, he said the Cincinnati-based company supports
proposed federal legislation that would establish "clear
definitions and standards" for environmental claims, such as
"recyclable" or "waste-reducing."
   Nonetheless, Green Seal has attracted widespread support
from environmental and consumer groups. In addition to Ms.
Tepper Marlin, the directors include Sierra Club Chairman
Michael McCloskey, Worldwatch Institute President Lester
Brown and Natural Resources Defense Council Executive
Director John Adams.
   Richard Denison, senior scientist at Washington-based
Environmental Defense Fund, said Green Seal would challenge
industry to meet "aggressive standards" and assure consumers
of "real environmental benefits." But, he said the program
will have to make "tough decisions" on environmental
trade-offs. For example, fluorescent light bulbs conserve
energy and reduce "greenhouse" gases, but they contain toxic
mercury that could cause pollution during manufacture and
disposal, Mr. Denison said.
   Green Seal plans to announce today the first four product
categories that it will review. Officials wouldn't disclose
them, but others said they could include energy-efficient
fluorescent light bulbs, recycled toilet paper and tissue
products, recycled motor oil and household cleaning products.
   A panel of experts would set criteria for evaluating
products, which would be submitted to independent
laboratories for testing. Companies submitting products for
review would pay for testing and would pay an annual
licensing fee to use the seal on products that meet the
standards.
   Minnesota Attorney General Hubert H. Humphrey III, a Green
Seal board member and head of a task force investigating
product claims, supports the program. "I felt we had to go
beyond enforcement. We have to help consumers make informed
decisions to help the environment," Mr. Humphrey said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS PA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WALT DISNEY Co. (Burbank, Calif.) -- Moody's Investors
Service Inc. upgraded its ratings on the entertainment
company's senior debt to double-A-3 from single-A-2, and
assigned a single-A-1 rating to Disney's prospective $1.5
billion offering of subordinated liquid yield option notes.
About $1.8 billion of debt is affected. The rating concern
said its actions recognized the "enviable performance
achieved by Disney as it has expanded its established
franchises and materially increased their revenue and profit
potential." The ratings are also based on Moody's
expectations that Disney "will continue to take advantage of
related opportunities in the U.S. and internationally, with
its high discretionary cash flow an important source of
funding." Moody's noted that while ratings of Disney's debt
have historically reflected the company's expressed interest
in acquisitions, "the balance sheet and cash flow are now
sufficiently strong to support a material acquisition within
the framework of anticipated fund generation."
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   PRIMERICA Corp. (New York) -- Moody's Investors Service
Inc. said it upgraded its ratings on about $3 billion in debt
of this financial-services company's Commercial Credit Co.
and Primerica Holdings Inc. subsidiaries and the A.L.
Williams unit of Primerica Holdings. A major factor in the
upgrade is a recently adopted debt indenture, restricting
intersubsidiary investments, said Stephen Shippie, analyst at
the rating concern. The new indenture, Moody's said, "will
serve to insulate {Commercial Credit} from extending its
strengths to support weaker affiliates." The action includes
boosting the senior notes of Commercial Credit to single-A-2
from Baa-1 and the senior notes of Primerica Holdings to
Baa-1 from Baa-2.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Giving a Hand:
   GE Finds That Fix-It Projects
   Build Up Office Morale, Spirit
   ----
   By John D. Williams
</HL>
<DATE>
06/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   GE
</CO>
<LP>
   {From time to time in this column, The Wall Street Journal
will report on efforts by people in business to help others
in need.}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   AFTER A DAY OF MEETINGS, 150 National Broadcasting Co.
executives on a recent management retreat in Miami got down
to real business. With mops, brushes and shovels, and led by
NBC President Robert Wright, the executives spent the next
day cleaning, painting and landscaping a decrepit day-care
center in a Coconut Grove ghetto.
   It's no solution to ratings wars, but this sweat-equity
approach to corporate philanthropy at NBC is more than
altruism. Since last year, NBC and other General Electric Co.
subsidiaries and divisions have used volunteer work projects
as a way not only to do good, but also to build team spirit
and office morale.
   GE pays for the materials, but the employees give their
time to the projects, which have the informal support of GE's
chairman, John F. Welch Jr. Participation isn't mandatory,
says a GE spokeswoman. "It's personal involvement."
   Joel Hutt, a middle-manager in the marketing department of
the company's plastics group, is credited with starting the
idea. Mr. Hutt proposed that a get-acquainted meeting between
managers in his group and those in a newly acquired
subsidiary be given a purpose, in this case renovation of a
tired San Diego YMCA.
   The first day of the meeting was all GE business, but on
the second day, forgoing the usual golf and tennis, the 480
managers involved built concrete walls, brushed on 550
gallons of paint, and made over the seedy building for a
total cost in materials, paid by GE, of $100,000. A local
utility provided wheelbarrows and ladders.
   Working in teams of 10 or 15 each, the managers became
acquainted -- and had a good time. "It worked beyond our
wildest expectations," says Mr. Hutt.
   Since then GE teams have renovated eight other run-down
facilities used by the poor and needy. Typical is the Anna
Baum Skane  school for mentally handicapped children in
Bridgeport, Conn. There, an eight-hour visit by 200 GE
managers this past fall brought new lighting, windows,
playground equipment, shrubbery and a hot-pink paint job to
once-drab classrooms. "They did a magnificent job," says Rose
Loughlin, principal.
   The NBC project in Miami, which cost the company $170,000,
involved an old building -- originally built as a horse barn
for city garbage wagons -- that today serves as a community
center for disadvantaged children. Professionals repaired the
leaky roof, but NBC executives painted it inside and out and
planted six 20-foot trees.
   The top brass at NBC planned the event months in advance,
but most of the participants didn't learn about it until
dinner on the evening before, when waiters appeared dressed
in hard hats and jeans. The head table had a dropcloth with a
smeared-paint design and dining tables had paint roller
centerpieces.
   "The closer we came to the actual work date the more
skeptical we had become about the idea," recalls Betty
Hudson, an NBC senior vice president who planted flowers and
spread cedar chips that day. But 99% of the officials who
were asked to help came, she says.
   "At the end of the day I certainly was tired, but I felt
good," says Alan Thiel, business manager of NBC's Miami
affiliate, WTVJ.
   The idea is beginning to spread. On June 28, one of GE's
suppliers, Skyline Displays, a maker of portable trade show
exhibits, plans to complete a new playground and landscape
improvements in the local town park at Burnsville, Minn. The
company will provide the $60,000 in materials; 600 Skyline
managers and employees will do the work. Skyline says it read
in a trade magazine about a GE "Share to Gain" project and
decided to try one of its own.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900614-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900614-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Pechiney International S.A.:
   Weak Dollar Seen Fostering
   Decline in Consolidated Net
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   The weakness of the dollar against the French franc is
likely to foster a yet unspecified decline in Pechiney
International S.A.'s consolidated net income for 1990, a
spokesman for the French-controlled packaging and aluminum
company said.
   The official said the anticipated decline would mainly
reflect the fact that most of the company's revenue is in
dollars while its annual accounts are expressed in francs.
This is an important element because the U.S. currency has
averaged 5.70 francs so far this year, compared with the
6.38-franc exchange rate used in its accounts for 1989, he
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Another factor weighing on the company's results so far
this year has been weak aluminum prices, which could trim
results for this branch in dollar terms, the spokesman said.
Narrowly lower profits are also anticipated from the group's
electrical parts operations, he said, but added that it was
too early to speculate on the scope of the anticipated
declines because they hinge on the dollar's performance over
the rest of the year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
