<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Verit's Stockdale Resigns as Chairman,
   Chief Executive; Iroquois Deal Dropped
   ----
   By Roy J. Harris Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS VER IBL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Malcolm Stockdale resigned as chairman, chief executive
officer and a director of Verit Industries, and Verit said
its acquisition of 56% of Houston-based Iroquois Brands Ltd.
had been "rescinded."
   Mr. Stockdale, along with Verit President John Carway, had
led Verit on the acquisition trail in recent months in an
apparent attempt to build it into a multi-industry concern
with interests in construction equipment, real estate and
control of toxic wastes. Many of the proposed transactions
involved target companies in need of financial aid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 45-year-old Mr. Stockdale, chairman and controlling
holder of Iroquois Brands, is a British businessman who in
1988 bought control of Iroquois. He then began selling off
that company's pharmaceutical and vitamin businesses, and
merged Iroquois with the Utah shell company that he had used
to make acquisitions of European companies in the mining and
construction equipment industries.
   In February, Verit said it had completed purchase of
1,242,334 common shares of Iroquois in a private transaction
that involved issuance of 155,292 new Series A preferred
shares of Verit. Each Verit preferred share was to have been
convertible into 20 common shares, although the company said
certain approvals by Verit holders were required.
   The proposed transaction first was mentioned about the
time late last year that Mssrs. Stockdale and Carway were
named top officers at Verit.
   Verit, which recently moved its headquarters to Phoenix,
Ariz., from the Los Angeles suburb of Sun Valley, Calif.,
didn't name a new chairman and chief executive officer
yesterday, although a spokesman said "there is a search on"
and the company hopes to complete the process shortly.
   In a telephone interview, Mr. Stockdale said that "the
direction of both companies (Verit and Iroquois) is too far
apart to be practical." Iroquois will continue in its
industrial equipment and gas-station operation businesses, he
said. The Verit preferred shares had been issued, Mr.
Stockdale added, but conversion into common wouldn't have
been allowed until Verit holders had approved the
transaction.
   Verit said all parties involved in the private exchange of
stock had agreed to its cancellation.
   In composite trading on the American Stock Exchange,
Verit, which didn't trade, stood at $2.125, and Iroquois
Brands, which also didn't trade, stood at $3.50.
   Last month American Toxxic Control Inc., a small Whittier,
Calif., company that treats chemical industry wastes,
canceled negotiations with Verit concerning the proposed
acquisition of American Toxxic by a Verit subsidiary.
American Toxxic, which had hoped to get help in restructuring
debt and gaining a listing for itself on the American Stock
Exchange, said that cancellation reflected "questions about
Verit's balance sheet" and some concerns raised in an earlier
Wall Street Journal story about Verit.
   The Journal story noted that terms of transactions
proposed by Messrs. Stockdale and Carway sometimes call for
issuance of large numbers of convertible preferred shares,
and often are bewilderingly complex, sometimes involving
companies in the British Isle of Man tax haven. The story
also noted that the Securities and Exchange Commission has
inquired about a dispute between Verit and a former auditor,
and pointed out that Mr. Carway has convictions on his record
in Ireland for check fraud and in England for marijuana
possession.
   Mr. Carway, a 44-year-old former outside consultant to
Verit who last year acquired 38% of the company, said Verit's
purchase of a major interest in Emerald Homes Limited
Partnership isn't endangered. Earlier this year Verit
acquired a 24% stake in Emerald, a Phoenix-based real estate
concern traded on the New York Stock Exchange, for 20,000
Verit preferred shares. Verit later announced plans to issue
more preferred, convertible into 6.6 million Verit common
shares, to acquire Emerald's California and Texas divisions.
Verit has 759,853 common shares outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Retailing:
   Store's Concept
   Of `Sale' Pricing
   Gets Court Test
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MA
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   When is a sale truly a sale?
   A state court judge in Denver could provide a
precedent-setting answer in a widely watched case scheduled
to go to trial today. The Colorado attorney general is asking
Judge Larry Naves to define a standard for determining when a
retailer promotes legitimate discounts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Among the criteria suggested by the state: Retailers can
advertise discounts only from higher prices at which goods
actually were sold -- not just offered for sale.
   Any ruling would apply only to the Denver-based May D&amp;F
unit of May Department Stores Co., which stands accused of
misleading Colorado consumers. But it could send shock waves
throughout the retailing industry. The Colorado attorney
general's suggested criteria are among the most detailed in
the nation. And the defendant is the nation's largest
operator of department stores.
   "The decision is going to dictate how the states act in
enforcement and how the retailers are going to advertise,"
predicts Clayton Friedman, an assistant attorney general in
Missouri.
   The Colorado case also provides a rare glimpse at how
retail price promotions really work. The state alleges that
May D&amp;F deceives consumers by artificially inflating its
"original" or "regular" prices, then promoting discounts from
those prices to create the illusion of offering bargains on
cookware, linens and other household goods. May denies the
charges, claiming in part that its practices don't violate
Federal Trade Commission guidelines.
   But rather than settling out of court as other retailers
have done in similar cases, May publicly is explaining how it
establishes "original" and "regular" prices.
   The case also comes as the Federal Trade Commission is
taking its first comprehensive look at the subject in more
than a decade. The agency is mulling comments on voluntary
advertising guidelines drawn up recently by May and other big
retailers, who are anxious to head off new state regulations.
The FTC's current guidelines, which date from 1964, require
that goods be offered for sale at regular prices "for a
reasonably substantial period of time . . . honestly and in
good faith and not for the purpose of establishing a
fictitious higher price."
   Sales are coming under more scrutiny today because they
have become so common. As competition intensified in the
1980s, stores sought an edge by running more and more
specials. That attracted the attention of state attorneys
general, who investigated the claims, started writing more
stringent rules and sued some of the most trusted names in
retailing. Cases now are pending in other states against
Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., J.C. Penney Co. and other big
retailers.
   Colorado prosecutors are cutting to the heart of the
debate by suggesting that May be held to a standard of
actually selling merchandise at the higher price. "That's a
very important question," says Steven Cole, general counsel
of the Council of Better Business Bureaus.
   Neither prosecutors nor lawyers for May D&amp;F would comment
on the Colorado case. A spokesman for the parent company,
based in St. Louis, also declined to comment.
   In court documents, the Colorado attorney general argues
that an actual sales standard is necessary to make any
injunction against May enforceable and to match consumers'
perceptions about what constitutes a special deal. The state
says the majority of 400 Colorado consumers surveyed in March
believed that at least 25% of a retailer's sales were made at
the "original" or "regular" prices. The average consumer in
the survey understood the terms "regular" and "original" to
mean prices that were charged on 50 of the last 90 days, the
state says.
   In court documents, May D&amp;F acknowledges that before last
August, it made few sales in its Home Store departments at
what it called "original" prices. At the time, the company
says its policies required that household goods be offered
for sale at an "original" price for at least 10 days at the
beginning of each six-month season. After the 10 days, May
says its policies allowed promotions touting discounts from
the "original" price.
   May changed its policies in August (two months after it
was sued by the state) "to eliminate any doubt as to the
legitimacy of its advertising," according to the company's
court filings. Under the new policy, May says it establishes
"regular" prices by offering Home Store merchandise for sale
for at least 28 of every 90 days. And it says it instituted a
"Satisfaction Guaranteed" program allowing shoppers to return
merchandise for a full refund.
   The company defends its new policy, contending it reduced
the so-called "reference" prices the company uses to
calculate discount claims on most Home Store merchandise. The
price used to calculate discounts on a 12-cup Braun coffee
maker, for example, slid to $64 from $69 as a result of the
policy change.
   May also says in court documents that it now makes "many
sales" at its "regular" prices. In the six months ended in
March 1990, May says it sold anywhere from less than 1% to
more than 25% of the 55 best-selling Home Store items at its
"regular" prices. Still, those levels may not be high enough
to satisfy the state.
   The company maintains that consumers aren't misled by its
practices. In court documents, it cites surveys showing the
majority of consumers understood the term "original" to mean
"the first price of the season" and that 90% didn't care
whether there were actual sales at that price.
   May also argues in its filings that an actual sales
standard is unworkable and would impede price competition.
"May D&amp;F cannot control how many products it will sell at a
given price," the company says. "This will vary by the type
of product, expectations of consumers about whether they
might be able to obtain the merchandise on sale, the
competitive environment for a given product, the economy" and
other factors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- On Sports:
   Philly Deep-Sixed in Basket-Brawl Playoffs
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<LP>
   Philadelphia -- Someone told me that if I wanted to really
understand basketball, I should pick one player in a game and
watch his every move. So for the first quarter of the
Philadelphia 76ers-Chicago Bulls NBA playoff contest Sunday
afternoon at the Spectrum, I watched the Sixers' Rick Mahorn.
   He seemed a logical-enough choice. He's a veteran, a
former member of last season's champion Detroit Pistons, and
has a nice smile, or, at least, a toothy sneer. Moreover, his
dedication to these proceedings seemed to assure an all-out
effort. He has said his playoff preparations included the
home-front proclamation that "this is no time for little,
nit-picking things.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is not the time for `Oh honey, you've got to cut the
grass,'" he declared. "It is not the time for `You go pick up
so and so.'" Any man willing to risk talking that way to his
wife must be serious.
   Among the Sunday activities of the 6' 10", 255-pound
Mahorn were these: an elbow to the neck of Bulls forward
Stacy King when the two jostled under the Bulls' goal; a
healthy shove to the back of Bulls center Bill Cartwright on
a rebound; a bit of hand-to-hand combat with the seven-foot
Cartwright, no slouch himself at the martial arts, as Mahorn
worked for offensive-rebounding position.
   No fouls were called on either side for those deeds,
following a league practice that anything that doesn't
require an eightcount needn't be punished. The NBA game has
become so ferocious it now borrows some of its terminology
from wrestling. For example, a "takedown" is what one player
does to ensure that a foe trying to reach the basket with the
ball lands on the floor instead.
   In truth, Sunday's match wasn't nasty by current
standards, and in the end Sixer fatigue, a deep Bulls bench
and an honest-to-goodness basketballer, Chicago's well-known
Michael Jordan, made the difference. Philadelphia led by nine
points going into the fourth quarter but was out-tallied
34-15 thereafter, with Marvelous Michael getting 18 of those,
and 45 in all. The final score was 111-101, and it gave the
Bulls a 3-1 lead in the best-of-seven games Eastern
Conference semifinal.
   Nonetheless, Bulls coach Phil Jackson couldn't resist a
pugilistic image when he delivered his post-game assessment.
"I didn't think they had the bench to stay with us," he said.
"If you can get past the 10th round with those guys, you can
beat them."
   Ed Nealy, a burly Chicago reserve whose nine points and as
many rebounds came in handy for his team, essentially agreed.
"When you bang like they do, it's going to wear you down," he
offered. "We needed our reinforcements. We kind of
outnumbered them today."
   The attention to rough stuff in this playoff season is an
offshoot of the regular campaign's end, which was marked by
several incidents of the sort that sensible men avoid while
clad in their underwear. One bout between the Sixers and
Pistons, who have popularized basket-brawl in recent seasons,
resulted in a record $162,500 in fines being levied against
the teams and various players. A couple weeks later, the
fourth and final game of the Bulls-Milwaukee Bucks
first-round playoff series was marked by 68 personal fouls
plus six of the "technical" variety (for extracurricular
fighting or mouthing-off to the refs), and 96 free throws.
   These prompted Rod Thorn, the NBA's operations chief, to
deplore the trend toward "ridiculously hard fouls" that spur
altercations. He didn't, however, spell out when a foul
becomes "hard" or "ridiculously hard." Until the league can
make and enforce simple distinctions between fair and foul,
it's no wonder that more advanced definitions remain elusive.
   So we can only hope that the short-pants millionaires
escape unscathed until these proceedings end sometime in
June, and in winning on enemy hardwood Sunday the Bulls gave
notice that they still could be in action then. Their triumph
was all the more noteworthy because it was accomplished
without starting forward Scottie Pippen, one of the most
frequent fliers in Chicago's air-oriented offense. He was in
Arkansas attending his father's funeral.
   The Bulls employed several fellas in Pippen's stead, and
all contributed. King, a 6' 10" rookie, started and had 22
points and seven rebounds. Will Perdue, the seldom-used
center with the size-22 feet, chipped in 10 points and three
rebounds in reserve. Nealy did his muscle bit, and rookie
guard B.J. Armstrong managed the ball well. In all, the Bulls
bench outscored their Sixer counterparts 23 to 10, exceeding
their team's victory margin.
   When the going got tough, though, the Bulls got going to
the 6' 6" Jordan. This is their SOP, even though their
opponents are well-aware of the proclivity. Do the Sixers
always have the Jordanian threat in the back of their minds
when they play the Bulls, Philadelphia center Mike Gminski
was asked. Nope, he replied, "He's always in the front of our
minds."
   Jordan got the Chicago comeback rolling in earnest two
minutes into the last period, when his three-point goal cut
the Sixers' lead to four. He scored five more baskets in the
quarter, all on driving layups past the fagged
Philadelphians. His method on those was to dribble the ball
around the perimeter of the Sixers' defense until he spotted
an opening, and then zip through it. The home team couldn't
catch him, much less take him down.
   Some of those drives were past Charles Barkley, the
broad-beamed Philly hero, and his late futility epitomized
that of his team. He is far and away the leading Sixer scorer
and rebounder in the series, but he played 46 of the 48
minutes Sunday, on top of 45, 45 and 41 minutes in the
previous three games, and Jordan said the toil told.
   "When Charles talks on the court, you know he's motivated,
energized," said Michael. "He got pretty quiet in the fourth
quarter today."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Varian to Cut 600 Jobs, Sell Some Units
   And Take Pretax Charge of $74 Million
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   VAR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Varian Associates Inc. moved to improve flagging profit
and distance itself from the weakening defense business,
announcing plans to eliminate 600 jobs and sell operations
with annual sales of $200 million by the end of September.
   The moves will sharply reduce Varian's costs and its
dependence on military contracts, but require it to take a
one-time pretax charge of $74 million for its fiscal third
quarter ending June 29.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Palo Alto, Calif., concern currently has about 12,000
employees.
   The size of the charge was a surprise -- almost twice as
big as what some analysts had expected. But the market
welcomed the news. Varian's stock rose 87.5 cents, to $26, in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.
   "This will boost profits quite dramatically," said Michael
Lauer, an analyst at Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
   Net income at Varian, a diversified high-technology
concern, has fallen for four consecutive quarters, and in
March the company named J. Tracy O'Rourke its new chief
executive officer and chairman. In a prepared statement, Mr.
O'Rourke said the job cuts were dictated by the need to
reduce costs and that the operations offered for sale aren't
part of the company's core businesses, which include medical
therapy and semiconductor process equipment.
   Mr. O'Rourke came to Varian from Rockwell International
Corp., where he had a reputation for turning industry trends
to his company's advantage. While president of Allen-Bradley
Co., which Rockwell acquired in 1985, Mr. O'Rourke was
credited with helping transform the private electromechanical
concern with $450 million in annual sales into a $1.4 billion
global high-tech supplier.
   At Varian, Mr. O'Rourke wants to lead "a pared-down"
organization that can better manage rapid changes in markets
and technologies. "A number of these activities we plan to
exit should repesent interesting opportunities for others,"
he said. "But in our particular situation, they proved to be
a diversion that was no longer acceptable or affordable."
   Mr. Lauer, the analyst, said he expects Varian to receive
as much as $70 million to $85 million from these operations,
which employ about 1,600 people and largely make products
purchased by the military. The operations include Continental
Electronics in Dallas, TVT Ltd. in Cambridge, England, and
two units in Northern California that make night-vision
goggles and radiation-resistant semiconductors for the
military.
   Varian hopes to complete the sale of these units, which
account for about one-seventh of its annual revenue, by the
end of September, when the company ends its fiscal year. But
a spokesman said it could take longer than that to complete
the sales and that it was prepared to operate the units until
buyers were found.
   The sale of these operations should help earnings because
they were expected to have losses of as much as $10 million
this year, Mr. Lauer said. Varian's profit also will benefit
from the job cuts, which Mr. Lauer said should save the
company $20 million in annual costs.
   While these savings will ease the pressue on Varian, they
won't take the company out of the woods. The company also
must improve its pivotal semiconductor equipment operation,
which has suffered from weakened demand and troubles in
finishing new products.
   Mr. Lauer said that because of unsolved technical
difficulties the company has a backlog of two dozen orders
for one important product, which is priced at more than $1
million. In the area of chip equipment, "what's killing the
company are technical issues," he said.
   A spokesman for Varian said the company had sold about 30
of the machines, but called it a "tough new product." He said
"we believe those problems are getting sorted out . . . those
are largely behind us now."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Republicans May Find Voters Do, Indeed, See
   Higher Taxes Being About as Certain as Death
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A26
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   SELMER, Tenn. -- Rep. Don Sundquist usually comes here to
rural western Tennessee to dispense advice and assistance.
But this day he's here to get some, too.
   At the aging McNairy County Courthouse, the popular
Republican tells his audience that a tax increase may soon be
looming in Washington and, with evident unease, inquires,
"Should I vote for it?" The answer is surprising. Even in
these conservative, cotton-growing flatlands east of Memphis,
it isn't an automatic "no."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Donald Porter, a retired naval officer, speaks up to
recommend a 3% sales tax on luxury items. Paul Simpson, a
local attorney, suggests a nickel-a-can tax on beer (even
though County Sheriff Robert Lee teases him about how much
that tax would cost him). And Rep. Sundquist mentions --
though he doesn't endorse -- an increase in the levy on
gasoline.
   "Generally, they don't think it's a question of whether
they're going to have a tax," Mr. Sundquist says later as he
rides to his next town-hall meeting. "It's which one." Here
in the temperate countryside, Mr. Sundquist believes, the
taxes of choice would fall hardest on whiskey, cigarettes and
beer.
   If Mr. Sundquist's experience is any example, the tax
issue mightn't be as lethal as some Republicans fear. While
few people volunteer to pay more taxes, many profess concern
that the federal budget deficit has gotten out of hand and
needs to be reduced significantly. That leads to a sense of
inevitability about an eventual tax rise. Moreover, grousing
about inadequate federal aid, especially in health care and
transportation, is far louder than the complaints about high
taxes.
   Of course, the four-term legislator does catch some flak
on the prospect of tax increases. Further up the two-lane
highway at Henderson, Arthur Kuster, a retired civil
engineer, puts the point bluntly. "I don't think we need a
tax increase," he says, and adds about President Bush: "I
hope he don't break his word."
   Some Republican strategists agree with that philosophy,
and worry that compromise will hurt them at the polls. Just
last Thursday, a group of Republican hardliners marched
before the television cameras on Capitol Hill to repeat their
"no-new-tax" pledge, and to urge President Bush to do the
same. Among them were two lawmakers who are especially
displeased with the president, Reps. Lynn Martin of Illinois
and Bill Schuette of Michigan, whose campaigns for the Senate
are based partly on unswerving opposition to tax increases.
   As a member of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee,
Rep. Sundquist will be in the trenches of any tax-increase
battle. And from that vantage point, he manages to see two
sides to the argument. On the one hand, taxes have been a
defining -- and winning -- issue for the Republicans over the
years. But after controlling the White House for so long, the
party also bears responsibility for governing, and trying to
solve national problems.
   "The Democrat Party has been correctly postured as the
party of tax increases, and that's been a clear difference
between us," Mr. Sundquist says. "On the other hand, there is
a political risk for those who say they won't go into a
budget summit at all."
   Each stop on this rainy weekend is punctuated with this
kind of "on the other hand" reflection. Here in Selmer, Mr.
Sundquist begins his remarks with a reminder about how
strongly he opposes tax increases, but then quickly moves to
the news: President Bush has agreed to begin
deficit-reduction talks with Congress, and taxes are on the
table. "I trust this president," he concludes. "I don't like
taxes, but if we come up with a compromise, I'll look at it."
   Some of Mr. Sundquist's constituents blanch at this
newfound flexibility, but few are put off completely. Billy
Burney, an owner of an auto-body shop and a carpet store in
Selmer, at first asserts that "the people in this district
are taxed enough." But under gentle questioning by the
congressman, Mr. Burney softens his position. He would resist
higher gasoline taxes and income-tax rates, he says, but he
also would "look at the whole picture" before saying "no
way."
   Closer to Memphis, on the steps of the Fayette County
Courthouse in Somerville, William Cowan Sr., a cotton farmer
from nearby La Grange, furrows his brow beneath his well-worn
cap when Mr. Sundquist discusses the budget talks. But when
he's asked about his own view, he answers with a shrug of his
shoulders. "They've got to get money from somewhere," he
says. "It looks like taxes are going to go up."
   Mr. Sundquist isn't willing to concede the point yet. But
that reluctance is as much a matter of strategy as of
principle. "The bottom line is that they will trust me to do
the very least in taxes, and that I'd get something in
exchange," the congressman says.
   The exchange Mr. Sundquist seeks mirrors the negotiating
position of President Bush. He says he would vote for a tax
increase only if the package includes long-term changes in
the budget process that would make it harder for Congress to
increase spending. Two methods he mentions would give the
president greater authority to delay funding for individual
programs and authority to put the federal government on a
two-year budget cycle.
   It would be hard for Mr. Sundquist to envision a tax plan
that he could embrace under any circumstance. His rural
constituents would scream about an increase in the gasoline
tax because of the long distances they drive. And even though
few of his constituents would be hurt by the change, he
spurns the idea of raising the individual tax rate on the
highest-income taxpayers -- a plan so vigorously favored by
Democrats that it may well be the linchpin to reaching an
accord.
   But as one of President Bush's biggest boosters in
Congress, Mr. Sundquist says he doesn't want to do anything
that would foreclose the president's options. He also
believes that Mr. Bush is so well-liked by the voters that
almost anything he endorses will fly.
   "A majority of our folks are in the same position I'm in,
and it's not comfortable," Mr. Sundquist says. On the other
hand, he adds, "In politics there's also a test of
reasonableness, and a fine line between being tough and
hard-headed."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Supreme Court
   Hardens Stance
   On Pricing Suits
   ---
   Ruling Makes It Difficult
   To Sue Manufacturers
   That Cap Retail Prices
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   ARC GRA LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court made it tougher for a
competitor to sue a distributor or manufacturer for setting
maximum retail prices.
   Although setting price ceilings may be illegal, the court
said, federal antitrust law doesn't give competitors an
automatic right to sue. Rather, the justices said in a 7-2
opinion written by Justice William Brennan, a company may sue
for damages only if it can show that it lost business because
a manufacturer set retail prices at "predatory" levels --
prices below the profit-making level and designed to drive
competitors out of business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Antitrust experts said the decision is a victory for
consumers because it allows manufacturers to cut their retail
prices largely without fear of lawsuits by competitors.
   The decision also was a significant victory for Atlantic
Richfield Co., which was sued by USA Petroleum Co., an
independent retailer of gasoline.
   "The decision reaffirms that consumer welfare, or prices
to consumers, are the touchstone of antitrust law," said
Charles Rule, a Washington lawyer and former Justice
Department antitrust chief. "It shows that antitrust laws
aren't designed to protect competitors without regard to how
they affect consumers," he said.
   While the high court's decision makes it more difficult
for competitors to successfully sue, it doesn't prevent
individual dealers and consumers from challenging maximum
resale prices. Dealers may allege, for example, that they
were unable to offer particular services to consumers because
they couldn't charge a high enough retail price to cover
their cost. Consumers may allege that all of the retailers
charged the maximum price set by the manufacturer,
effectively eliminating competition.
   USA Petroleum charged that Arco conspired with its own
brand-name retail gasoline dealers to drive independent
retailers out of business. USA Petroleum said Arco and its
dealers fixed maximum retail prices at levels that were below
market prices.
   A federal court in Los Angeles dismissed the suit based on
pretrial motions, finding that USA Petroleum failed to show
that it lost business because of "predatory pricing." But in
1988, a federal appeals court reinstated the suit, saying
that Arco caused USA Petroleum's business losses with its
price-fixing plan.
   Yesterday, the high court reversed the appeals court
ruling, effectively ending the lawsuit. "Low prices benefit
consumers regardless of how those prices are set, and so long
as they are above predatory levels, they do not threaten
competition. Hence, they cannot give rise to antitrust
injury," Justice Brennan said.
   Edward G. Reilly, senior vice president of marketing for
Arco Products Co., said: "This is a great victory for
consumers and another vindication of the consumer-oriented
marketing program we embarked upon in 1982."
   Justice John Stevens dissented, joined by Justice Byron
White.
   Mr. Rule said the decision is consistent with the high
court's approach for the past decade of viewing the antitrust
laws as protecting competition, rather than individual
competitors. (Atlantic Richfield Co. vs. USA Petroleum Co.)
                                                                                                       

   States' Asbestos Lawsuit
                                                                                                       

   The justices refused to allow the attorneys general of 30
states to sue in the high court to force manufacturers of
asbestos products to pay for removal of the hazardous
material from public buildings.
   The complaint was lodged against 26 companies that
manufactured products containing asbestos for decades until
the early 1970s, when the Environmental Protection Agency
identified asbestos as a cancer-causing material. The
complaint said the companies, including major manufacturers
of asbestos products for insulation, fireproofing and
interior building tiles, failed to warn state governments of
the hazards and failed to pay for its removal.
   John Ellis, deputy attorney general in the state of
Washington and an organizer of the lawsuit, estimated the
total cost of cleaning up asbestos in public buildings in the
30 states at $16 billion.
   Mr. Ellis said the case was filed directly in the Supreme
Court because no other court has jurisdiction to handle the
claims by all of the states. When the case was filed in
February, Mr. Ellis said, "Separate suits in {30} state
courts is the only alternative," noting that it would be very
costly and inefficient. Since the high court, without
comment, turned down the lawsuit, the states will have to
explore other alternatives. (Alabama vs. W.R. Grace Co.)
                                                                                                       

   Court in Brief
                                                                                                       

   In other action, the high court:
   -- Refused, by a 5-4 vote, to lift a state court judge's
injunction against protests at abortion clinics in Atlanta.
The injunction was issued against Operation Rescue, which has
led anti-abortion demonstrations at clinics throughout the
country. But protesters had asked the Supreme Court for a
stay while they appeal, arguing that the order infringes on
their free-speech rights.
   Justices Brennan, Thurgood Marshall, Antonin Scalia and
Anthony Kennedy dissented, saying they would grant the stay
while the group appeals. (Hirsh vs. City of Atlanta)
   -- By a 6-3 vote, ruled that federal labor law pre-empts a
lawsuit for damages filed in state court charging the United
Steelworkers of America with negligence in a 1972 accident at
an Idaho silver mine in which 91 miners were killed. The
lawsuit was filed by families of the miners, charging that
the union was negligent because it had a representative on
the mine safety committee. But in an opinion written by
Justice White, the high court said the complaint falls under
the collective bargaining agreement. Justice Kennedy
dissented, joined by Chief Justice William Rehnquist and
Justice Scalia. (Steelworkers vs. Rawson)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wider Loss by Parent
   Of Prime Computer
   Posted for 1st Period
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   PRM
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NATICK, Mass. -- DR Holdings Inc. of Delaware, the company
that acquired Prime Computer Inc. in a leveraged buy-out in
August, reported a wider loss on a 4.5% revenue decline for
the first quarter ended April 1.
   The loss, which reflected heavy interest costs and the
sluggish U.S. computer market, widened to $37.2 million, or
69 cents a share, from $5 million, or 10 cents a share, in
the year-ago period when Prime was a public company. DR
Holdings doesn't have any publicly held stock, but the
company has some debt outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   James McDonald, vice chairman and chief executive officer
of Prime said, "Things are going pretty well. We're pretty
much right on track with what we started off to do."
   Revenue for the quarter declined to $369.8 million from
$387 million, despite an increase in service revenue. Prime
said that international demand was stronger than expected,
but didn't offset the decline in the U.S. It said that profit
margins suffered because of declines in sales of its highly
profitable proprietary minicomputers. Many makers of
mid-range computers have had similar problems selling in the
U.S. in recent quarters.
   Most of the wider loss was due to higher interest
expenses. DR Holdings said that interest expense in the
latest quarter was $52.4 million compared with $13.5 million
in the year-earlier period. However, net cash interest
payments in the latest quarter amounted to $40 million after
subtracting interest income and paid-in-kind interest.
   DR Holdings said that for the full year it "expects to
generate sufficient cash flows to meet its operating
expenses, capital expenditure requirements, and cash interest
obligations," as well as bank payments. Mr. McDonald, who
said that the cash situation was more important to the
company's creditors than the net income figure, said
cost-cutting programs are continuing to improve its cash
position. He said cash coverage of interest expense rose to
two times from 1.5 times at the end of the previous quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   They're Everywhere
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<LP>
   We're not much for sounding alarms about Japan buying
America, but the latest incident simply can't be ignored. A
recent issue of Michigan Law School's alumni publication
hails alumnus and noted Japan critic Rep. Richard Gephardt
(J.D. '65) for his election as House Majority Leader. The
same issue reports that Nippon Life Insurance Company has
given the school $1.2 million to endow a professorship in
Japanese law. None dare call it conspiracy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<LP>
   Joan Davis Ratteray, president of the Institute for
Independent Education, in the January/February Cato Policy
Report:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Institute for Independent Education recently examined
the test scores and enrollment patterns of the
elementary-school students in several urban areas. We found
that 74 percent of the African-American students in Detroit,
Indianapolis, Rochester, New Orleans, Baltimore, and Prince
George's County, Maryland, attend schools at which the median
percentile rank is below the national norm in reading,
mathematics, or both.
   Five years ago I was intrigued to discover that so many
independent elementary and secondary schools had been created
by African-Americans, Hispanic Americans, American Indians,
and Asian-Americans, and I was heartened to discover that
they stood as beacons of hope in the devastated landscapes of
so many inner-city communities. In many cases those schools
had restored the faith of families disillusioned by the
failure of inner-city public schools to educate their
children. Over one-third of the schools found so far are in
the Northeast. Over 87 percent of the families served are
African-American.
   The African-American schools in the private sector have
been developed by educators who have high expectations for
urban youth -- and who, consciously or unconsciously, have
begun to move Africa back to the center of their educational
theory and practice. Some have been more successful than
others in that regard, but all have created environments that
nurture children.
   . . . education for African-Americans could be improved
significantly if independent neighborhood schools gradually
replaced most, if not all, of the inner-city public schools.
Independent schools embody the right to choose and are viable
options for many low-income families. Parents choose them not
only because of what they teach and how they teach it but
because they are safe havens from the violence and chaos that
affect so much of inner-city life.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Supreme Court Hears Arguments
   On Federal Flag-Burning Statute
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel and Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
INSURANCE (INS)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The justices of the U.S. Supreme Court gave no indication
that they view a new federal flag-burning law more favorably
than a similar Texas law they struck down in June by a 5-4
vote.
   Five of the nine justices posed questions during an
hourlong argument in which Solicitor General Kenneth Starr
defended the law and civil-liberties lawyer William Kunstler
argued that it is unconstitutional.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Nothing prohibits a legislature from providing physical
protection to symbols," said Mr. Starr. "One can protect
those things that are special to us as a people." He added,
"Congress was seeking in a neutral way, without regard to the
message, to protect the integrity of the flag."
   But Mr. Kunstler, noting that Congress allowed the flag to
be flown in a "hurricane, thunderstorm or tornado," said the
federal law "protects {the flag} only from those who would
hurt it or cast it in a bad light." That, he said, means
Congress intended to penalize only those who are protesters
-- which is unconstitutional.
   The federal law was passed last summer in response to the
June decision. Immediately after the law took effect in
October, protesters burning the flag were arrested in Seattle
and Washington, D.C. In both cases, federal district judges
declared the law unconstitutional.
   In its decision in June, the court said the Texas law
infringed on the free-speech right because it penalized
burning the flag as a form of political protest that offended
others. Congress tried to circumvent this problem by
eliminating subjective judgment, making it illegal to damage
the flag in any manner.
   Justice Antonin Scalia, who voted against the Texas law,
appeared unpersuaded. He said taking out the words "cast
contempt" from the old federal law doesn't solve the problem,
noting that the terms in the new law -- "deface, defile,
trample" -- have the same negative connotation.
   Mr. Starr argued that the two episodes weren't
constitutionally protected because the protesters had a broad
range of verbal, political messages that weren't related to
burning the American flag.
   Justice Scalia responded, "Surely burning the flag conveys
something." Justice John Stevens interjected, "Given Justice
Scalia's interpretation, maybe you should try to bar
{flag-burning} on the grounds that it's misleading."
   Justice Stevens, who voted to uphold the Texas law, asked
Mr. Kunstler, "Is it irrelevant that I don't know which is
the message" of the protest. Mr. Kunstler said the act of
flag-burning still conveys a message. Justice Stevens replied
caustically that protesters could hand out a leaflet saying,
"Just call this phone number and I'll tell you what the
message is."
   The stakes are high in this case because if the court
strikes down the law this spring, there will be substantial
political pressure in Congress to approve a constitutional
amendment protecting the flag. Members of Congress, in turn,
would face the amendment as a fall election issue.
   ---
   "THE BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES" raises legal ruckus in New
Jersey.
   Robert Wilentz, New Jersey's chief justice, refused to
allow a production crew to film a scene in an Essex County
courthouse in Newark unless script changes were made.
   Judge Wilentz last week barred the use of a courtroom to
film a scene that shows a group of black citizens rioting
because, he said, it "could serve to seriously undermine the
confidence of black citizens in our court system."
   Warner Bros., which is producing the film based on the
novel by Tom Wolfe, has sought permission to film a different
scene in the corridor outside the courtroom. In a written
statement issued Sunday, Justice Wilentz said he would only
approve the corridor filming if the scene was changed to make
it less objectionable.
   Warner had agreed to donate $250,000 to the courthouse
restoration fund for the use of the courtroom. In order to
shoot in the corridor, the company would pay the standard
location fee, an average of $1,700 for a twelve-hour film
day.
   "We would hope that Judge Wilentz would recognize the
First Amendment rights of this picture, based on a work of
fiction, to be made as our filmmakers have envisioned. We
have no intention of rewriting the scene," said Rob Harris,
the film's production publicist, on behalf of Warner Bros., a
Time Warner Inc. unit.
   The filming of the best-selling novel about an investment
banker's journey through the New York court system has
generated controversy. Residents and officials of the Bronx,
N.Y., where substantial action takes place, have charged that
the film denigrates the borough.
   Mr. Harris said the crew considered filming the courtroom
scene in the Bronx courthouse but decided it would be too
difficult to move the equipment up and down to the
sixth-floor courtroom. Ultimately the scene was filmed in a
courtroom on the second floor of the courthouse in Queens, a
New York City borough.
   Nicholas Amato, Essex County executive, said the county
may file a lawsuit opposing the judge's decision and possibly
seeking monetary damages for the lost fee. Mr. Amato said the
judge had no authority to act as a censor, particularly since
the courthouse is maintained with taxpayers' money.
   Mr. Amato said he had been unhappy with the portrayal of
Italian-Americans as "gangsters, dope dealers and
blackmailers" in the movie "Rage of Angels," which was also
filmed at the courthouse. "But my remedy is the same as
others, don't go to see the movie," he said.
   ---
   TAX EXEMPTION for Bible sales is invalidated in North
Carolina.
   The Fourth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Va.,
struck down a 50-year-old North Carolina state law that
exempted the sale of Holy Bibles from the state's 5% sales
tax. The decision reaffirmed a line of cases by the U.S.
Supreme Court that rejected tax exemptions for religious
literature as violative of the First Amendment.
   North Carolina's law specifically exempted Bibles which
combine in one volume the Old and the New Testament. The
appeals court said the law violated constitutional
prohibitions against government establishment of religion and
against infringements on freedom of the press. "It is
precisely this type of official scrutiny of the content of
publications . . . that is so repugnant to the free press
clause of the Constitution," wrote Chief Circuit Judge Sam J.
Ervin III.
   The case was argued by Brian L. Rubin, a Washington, D.C.,
lawyer at the firm of Sidley &amp; Austin, who noticed the tax
when he bought an Old Testament Bible -- which wasn't
exempted from the tax because it didn't include the New
Testament. He brought the case on behalf of a rabbi, a member
of the Hindu faith and a member of the Hare Krishna.
   Assistant North Carolina Attorney General Donald W. Laton
said his office only challenged the plaintiffs' legal
standing to bring the suit and didn't defend the validity of
the law. Said Mr. Laton, "We do not foresee further appeal at
this time."
   ---
   JUSTICE DEPARTMENT backs antitrust lawsuit against big
insurers.
   State attorneys general who banded together to sue some of
the country's biggest insurance companies over an alleged
antitrust conspiracy got a boost when the Justice Department
urged a federal court to allow pretrial proceedings to
continue.
   The department last week filed a friend-of-the court
brief, urging the federal circuit court in San Francisco to
reverse a trial judge's earlier decision to dismiss the
lawsuit brought by attorneys general from 19 states. The
appeal also got a boost from 13 other states, which filed a
similar brief. A court may consider such an amicus brief by a
nonparticipant in a case, but an outside party's argument
doesn't necessarily affect the outcome.
   In their suit, the state prosecutors charged that major
U.S. insurers conspired to eliminate certain lines of
commercial liability and property coverage. Last year, a
federal trial judge dismissed the case, concluding that the
defendants' conduct was immune from prosecution under
exceptions to the federal antitrust laws protecting certain
joint activities by insurance companies. The Justice
Department, in its brief, contended that the suit should be
allowed to proceed because the state attorneys general
alleged boycotts, coercion and intimidation not covered by
the insurance-industry exceptions.
   Justice Department support for the states merits attention
because federal antitrust regulators in recent years have
scolded state prosecutors for attempts to enforce federal
antitrust laws.
   ---
   PRO BONO LEGAL WORK is required at four law schools.
   At Tulane University Law School in New Orleans, the first
law school to implement a public-service requirement, each of
this year's graduates completed at least 20 hours of free
legal service for indigents. Supervised by local lawyers, the
students assisted clients with a variety of legal needs,
including bankruptcy proceedings, landlord-tenant problems,
death-penalty appeals and child-abuse cases.
   Law schools at Florida State University, Valparaiso
(Indiana) University and the University of Pennsylvania
approved compulsory public service for their students, and
more than 20 other law schools are considering similar
programs.
   Some of the schools plan to let students fulfill pro bono
requirements through work for public-service organizations.
Students at the University of Pennsylvania can work for any
government employer and for non-profit groups other than
trade associations. "We don't discriminate on the basis of
political orientation," says Judith Bernstein-Baker, director
of the law school's public-service program.
   The American Civil Liberties Union, the Washington Legal
Foundation, environmental groups, and organizations on both
sides of the abortion issue have solicited the pro bono
services of the University of Pennsylvania students.
   ---
   Milo Geyelin contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Curtice-Burns Foods
   Says Petty Will Head
   Consolidated Lines
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CBI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ROCHESTER, N.Y. -- Curtice-Burns Foods Inc. said several
of its divisions will be consolidated under William Petty,
who is executive vice president of this food concern.
   Effective June 1, Mr. Petty, 58 years old, also will
become chief executive of the company's Comstock Michigan
Fruit division, succeeding Robert Silkett, 60, who is
retiring. Several other divisions will report to Mr. Petty,
including the company's Nalley's division, Brooks Food
division, Farman Brothers Pickle Co. and Lucca Packing Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Curtice said the reorganization of its top management
structure is aimed at improving its performance and will
allow the company to respond more quickly to market demands.
   As reported, Curtice-Burns reported a 25% decline in net
income for the fiscal nine months and said it expects lower
earnings for the year ending June 30 because of plant and
administrative consolidations and unfavorable crop
conditions.
   Curtice said Tommy Murray, 50, who was named chief
executive of its newly formed snack foods group last
November, will be reporting to David J. McDonald, president
and chief executive of Curtice-Burns. The snack group is made
up of the Snyder's and Hiland divisions, Tim's Cascade Chips
and the Nalley's U.S. Snack Food unit.
   Other divisions reporting to Mr. McDonald are Southern
Frozen Foods, National Oats Co. and the meat snack group, the
company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Kristol Is Wrong About Lithuania
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A25
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   Though I am not of Lithuanian ancestry, I am revolted by
Irving Kristol's April 11 editorial-page article, "Bush Is
Right About Lithuania," purporting to demonstrate the
hopelessness of Lithuania's independence drive. The article,
and the fact that it appeared in The Wall Street Journal of
all places, no doubt is as cheering to the Kremlin as it is
depressing for the embattled Lithuanians.
   Mr. Kristol states he is confused by Mikhail Gorbachev's
policies and actions with regard to Lithuania. I don't find
them confusing. They change by the moment because Mr.
Gorbachev is a consummate opportunist and politician who
subscribes to communist ideology. Thus, he will do whatever
it takes to achieve the desired results (maintaining Soviet
power as well as his own) while not disturbing the balance of
power within the various factions of his own government or in
the West.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most offensive is Mr. Kristol's assertion that "Lithuania
is not a lucky country" and the conclusion that independence
is impossible for "the foreseeable future," as if "luck" had
anything to do with the principles that should guide American
actions toward a small nation that so closely shares our
ideals.
   The desperate state of the Soviet economy and growing
unrest in other parts of the Soviet empire imply that no one,
certainly not Mr. Kristol, knows what will happen there.
There are a number of scenarios under which Lithuanian
independence is not only possible, but probable. One of them
is the scenario under which Lithuania receives strong moral
and diplomatic support from the West.
   Ann Donnelly
   Vancouver, Wash.
   ---
   I was stung by Mr. Kristol's article. As a recent
Lithuanian-American traveler and business consultant in the
U.S.S.R., I am highly motivated to respond:
   First, his comparison of Vietnam to Lithuania is
ludicrous. In Vietnam there was a civil war between opposing
factions. Lithuania had enjoyed centuries of independence
prior to the Soviet takeover of its sovereignty.
   Second, Mr. Gorbachev did not "incite the Lithuanians to
declare their independence from the U.S.S.R." -- they have
sought independence for decades, including seven years of
freedom fighting from 1945 to 1952.
   Third, the Soviet Constitution, Article 17, states the
right of any republic to withdraw from the U.S.S.R. through
democratic means, which is exactly what Lithuania did.
   Last, but most important, Lithuania is, in fact, a lucky
country -- a very lucky country -- with a rich history; a
colorful, peaceful culture; one of the oldest, most beautiful
languages in the world; and 3.7 million peace-loving, proud,
industrious people who have survived much stress and
persecution.
   Michael D. Pavilon
   Chicago
   ---
   In regard to Mr. Kristol's article:
   1. Although "no nation has ever recognized a right of
secession," since when has the U.S. or any other
freedom-loving country recognized a "right of forced
belonging"? Remember -- the Baltics were invaded and forcibly
absorbed into the Soviet Union.
   2. Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are not part of the
"centuries-old Russian empire." Only for the past 50 years
have they been forced to be part of the U.S.S.R.
   3. Lithuania is not a "lucky" country because insensitive,
uncaring and so-called rationalizing intelligentsia such as
Mr. Kristol will not give it support.
   Anthony J. Lisauskas
   Naperville, Ill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sylvia Picked to Run
   Nuclear Operations
   At Niagara Mohawk
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   NMK WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- B. Ralph Sylvia, Detroit Edison Co.'s top
nuclear executive, resigned to run Niagara Mohawk Power Co.'s
troubled nuclear power operations.
   In his four years with Detroit Edison, Mr. Sylvia became
known as a top nuclear trouble-shooter for turning around the
Fermi 2 nuclear plant near Detroit, which had huge cost
overruns, years of delays and frequent regulatory run-ins.
Most recently he was senior vice president, nuclear
generation, at Detroit Edison.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At Niagara Mohawk, the 49-year-old Mr. Sylvia will again
face a difficult situation. The Syracuse, N.Y., utility is
trying to gain Nuclear Regulatory Commission approval to
restart its Nine Mile Point No. 1 plant, which was shut down
in 1987. Company officials said they met with NRC
commissioners yesterday to set a date for the resumption of
power production at the plant. They said they expect to have
it working again by the end of next month. Meanwhile, Niagara
Mohawk's No. 2 nuclear plant has progressed slowly since its
start-up in mid-1987.
   When he starts at Niagara Mohawk on July 1, Mr. Sylvia
will temporarily serve as senior vice president of nuclear
operations. Later this year, he will become executive vice
president of nuclear operations, succeeding Lawrence
Burkhardt III, a Niagara Mohawk board member and retired Navy
admiral who took the executive vice president's job 1 1/2
years ago on a contract basis.
   Detroit Edison said William S. Orser will succeed Mr.
Sylvia. Mr. Orser, 45, has been vice president, nuclear
operations, since 1987 and was closely involved with the
Fermi 2 plant improvements.
   Mr. Sylvia's departure is the second change involving top
Detroit Edison executives this month. On May 1, John E.
Lobbia was named Detroit Edison's chairman and chief
executive officer in addition to his previous posts of
president and chief operating officer.
   The top-level changes and the loss of a key executive
sparked concern from analysts. "You have to watch very
carefully when a company that has experienced problems loses
some of the management that helped improve the situation,"
said James K. Asselstine, an electric utility credit analyst
with Shearson Lehman Hutton. "We'll especially watch Detroit
Edison because while Fermi 2 has improved substantially, it
continues to perform below average."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Detroit Edison stock closed at $26.75 a share, down 50 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Platinum Output
   By South Africa
   Is Expected to Grow
   ----
   By Neil Behrmann
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- South African platinum mines are planning to
raise production by one million troy ounces, or 39%, during
the next five years, Johnson Matthey PLC said in its latest
annual review of the metal.
   This year, the world's largest platinum producing nation
will produce as much as 150,000 ounces more than 1989's
record output of nearly 2.6 million ounces, the
precious-metals-refinery firm said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, in futures trading, platinum prices rose to
$485.75 an ounce, up $2, on expectations that strikes and
strife in South Africa will pare the mines' estimates during
the next few years.
   Moreover, dealers responded favorably to Johnson Matthey's
findings that exports by the Soviet Union, the second-largest
producer, were sharply lower in this year's first quarter.
   Last year, Soviet platinum supplies soared to 550,000
ounces, the highest levels since 1977, Johnson Matthey said.
Yet production fell this year, possibly because of an
explosion in November at a platinum-producing complex in
Norilsk, Siberia, said Jeremy Coombes, author of the report.
   Although the Soviet Union could well raise sales later in
the year, he said, total exports this year could decline to
1988 levels of 440,000 ounces.
   Meanwhile, world-wide fabrication demand rose to
approximately 3.2 million ounces in 1989 from approximately
three million in 1988, mainly because of buoyant jewelry
demand in Japan. Platinum used in automobiles also grew.
   But investment in platinum bars and coins tumbled 75% to
160,000 ounces last year, from 660,000 ounces in 1988,
because of high real returns on other investments, Mr.
Coombes said.
   Growth in industrial demand could also slacken, Johnson
Matthey said. Faced with higher borrowing costs, industrial
consumers may prefer to reduce inventories rather than buy
new metal. Platinum sales could also be hindered by weaker
U.S. auto production, and after five successive years of
growth, platinum consumption in Western Europe may also
stagnate.
   Excluding investment demand, supplies exceeded fabrication
consumption by 110,000 ounces, the third year of surplus, the
report said. But with such a narrow differential between
demand and supply, prices could range between $470 and $520
an ounce this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Flat Inventories
   Of $794 Billion
   Posted for March
   ---
   Stockpile Buildup Avoided;
   Month's Sales Rose 0.6%
   To $539.13 Billion Total
   ----
   By Katherine Walsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Business inventories were virtually
unchanged in March, the Commerce Department reported,
signaling that managers are avoiding any buildup in
stockpiles of unsold goods that could lead to a recession.
   Overall inventories totaled $794 billion during the month,
compared with $794.02 billion in February. Manufacturers'
inventories declined 0.3%, while those of retailers and
wholesalers increased 0.3% and 0.2% respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales, meanwhile, rose 0.6% during the month, to $539.13
billion, following a 1.4% increase to $535.85 during
February. According to the report, it would take 1.47 months
to sell all the inventories if sales continued at the March
rate. The last time the inventories-to-sales ratio was so low
was January 1989 when it also was 1.47, the lowest recorded
ratio since 1982.
   Sara Johnson, managing economist at Data Resources Inc. in
Lexington, Mass., said the figures suggest there are no
unwanted inventories. Excessive inventories indicate that
production is outpacing sales, an imbalance that can result
in production cutbacks by manufacturers.
   Retail sales fell 0.2% in March, to $149.55 billion,
following an increase of less than 0.1% in February to
$149.90 billion. Ms. Johnson attributed the March drop to the
fluctuating automobile market. However, she said retailers
need to be aware that consumers are spending cautiously.
Manufacturers' and wholesalers' sales increased 1.1% and 0.8%
respectively.
   "The report generally confirms that the economy is
continuing to expand, but at a gradual pace," said Ms.
Johnson, later adding that the report "wouldn't give the
Federal Reserve any impetus to ease its monetary policy."
   Overall, the report depicts a "dull picture," said Neil
Soss, chief economist at First Boston Corp. Mr. Soss
predicted modest growth in production for a short period and
says he believes that inventories are under control.
   All the numbers are adjusted for normal seasonal
fluctuations. But Mr. Soss said inventory figures for the
past few months have been distorted because of unusual
weather fluctuations, including both unseasonably cold and
unseasonably warm weather.
                                                                                                       

   Here is a summary of the Commerce Department's report on
business inventories and sales in March. The figures are in
billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted:
                                                                                                       

                                    (billions of dollars)
                                  March      Feb.     March
                                  1990       1990     1989
                                                                                                       

 Total business inventories .... 794.00     794.02   767.30
   Manufacturers ............... 371.94     373.17   361.13
   Retailers ................... 232.75     232.00   224.56
   Wholesalers ................. 189.31     188.85   181.62
                                                                                                       

 Total business sales .......... 539.13     535.85   512.81
                                                                                                       

 Inventory/sales ratio .........   1.47       1.48     1.50
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Van Dorn Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS VDC
</CO>
<LP>
   VAN DORN Co. (Cleveland) -- Adolph Posnick, chairman and
chief executive officer of Ferro Corp., and Karl E. Ware,
chairman and chief executive of Ware Industries Inc., were
named directors of this container producer, expanding the
board to 13 members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Moody's Downgrades
   Debt of McDonnell
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   MD
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS -- Moody's Investors Service Inc., citing the
deteriorating outlook for defense contractors, lowered its
ratings on about $3.4 billion of McDonnell Douglas Corp.'s
senior and subordinated debt.
   Moody's downgraded McDonnell Douglas's senior debt and
shelf registration to Baa-1 from single-A-3, and subordinated
debt to Baa-2 from Baa-1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The rating concern said its action also was based on
McDonnell Douglas's "continuing operating difficulties at its
commercial aircraft operations."
   A McDonnell Douglas spokesman said the company was
notified by Moody's several weeks ago that it might downgrade
the debt. "Everybody knows we're experiencing financial
difficulties, particularly in our transport-aircraft
business, where we had an operating loss of $84 million in
the first quarter," the spokesman said. "But that's also an
area where we think there's tremendous potential."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
McDonnell Douglas shares closed at $47.875, down $1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Net Loss of American
   Confectionery Corp.
   Narrowed in Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CNDY
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   SACRAMENTO, Calif. -- After recent purchases of nut, candy
and yogurt companies, American Confectionery Corp. expects to
report a reduced net loss for the fiscal third quarter ended
March 31, Steve Kircher, president, said.
   For the latest quarter, American Confectionery expects to
report a net loss in the range of $900,000, or about 18 cents
a share, compared with a year-earlier loss of $1 million, or
about 21 cents, including respectively scaled-down net losses
from continuing operations of $284,000, or five cents a
share, and $726,000, or 15 cents a share. Besides the effect
of acquisitions, Mr. Kircher said results have been skewed by
a continuing strategy of converting company-owned stores to
franchised operations, which is reducing revenue in the
near-term.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It is real clear that the core business is getting
better," Mr. Kircher said, noting that the company's retail
nut business, which had been operating at an annual $17
million loss when acquired in November 1988, was currently
breaking even.
   In the latest quarter, Mr. Kircher said revenue would
approximate $6 million, compared with about $8 million a year
earlier, with revenue from continuing operations increasing
to about $4.6 million, from $4.3 million.
   Mr. Kircher said results for the nine months would be
"break-even to a small loss" compared with year-earlier
profit of $1.1 million, or about 21 cents. Nine months
revenue would be flat, or would slightly exceed the $25
million reported a year ago, and would increase to $17.4
million, from about $11 million on a continuing basis. Unlike
a year earlier, the latest quarter and nine months didn't
include the Easter holiday, an important time for candy
sales.
   American Confectionery became publicly held in March, with
the acquisition of J. Higby's Inc., an unprofitable
franchiser of frozen yogurt and specialty foods stores.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Precision Castparts Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PCP
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   PRECISION CASTPARTS Corp. said it increased its quarterly
dividend 50% to three cents a share. The maker of castings
for the aerospace industry, based in Portland, Ore., said it
will pay the dividend July 2 to stock of record June 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Scientific-Atlanta Gets Order
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   SFA
</CO>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Scientific-Atlanta Inc. said it was selected by
K Prime Partners as the system supplier for K Prime's
direct-to-home satellite-television service.
   The initial order for Scientific-Atlanta's B-MAC
satellite-transmission system exceeds $25 million, the
telecommunications company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   K Prime is a joint venture of 10 cable-TV and
communications companies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tyler Completes Sale
   Of Atlas Powder Co.
   To Imperial Chemical
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TYL ICI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Tyler Corp. said it completed the sale of its
Atlas Powder Co. unit in a stock transaction valued at about
$127.8 million with Imperial Chemical Industries PLC, London.
   Tyler, once a Fortune 500 holding company with four
diverse operating units, now has one remaining subsidiary.
Under the transaction, Tyler shareholders will receive one
share of a new Tyler Corp. representing Tyler Pipe Industries
and the parent company's assets and liabilities, for each old
Tyler share owned.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Shareholders will swap their old Tyler shares,
representing Atlas Powder and $64.5 million in old Tyler bank
debt, for stock in Imperial Chemical. Tyler holders can opt
to receive either one Imperial Chemical American depositary
receipt for each 12.7078 Tyler shares owned, or one Imperial
common share for each 3.1769 Tyler shares owned. Each
Imperial ADR represents four Imperial common shares.
   Tyler said that based on the current Imperial ADR value,
Tyler shareholders should receive roughly $6 a share for each
old Tyler share.
   Tyler, which will have 21.3 million shares outstanding
after the transaction, said that an additional 558,413
Imperial shares, valued at $9.9 million, will be held in
reserve pending certain contingencies. The company said they
may be distributed to old Tyler shareholders at a later date.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Treasury Asks Congress to Require Firms
   Backed by U.S. to Have Triple-A Rating
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   FNM FRE SLM FAMCU
</CO>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury Department urged Congress to
require the Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corp. and five other government-sponsored
enterprises to qualify for and obtain triple-A credit ratings
-- without factoring in the government's implicit guarantee.
   In testimony before the House Ways and Means Committee's
oversight panel, Robert R. Glauber, Treasury undersecretary
for finance, said the Treasury believes a triple-A rating
from at least two major credit-rating concerns "represents
the most safe and sound level of credit quality, and thereby
the best protection from potential risk."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac buy home loans from lenders and
package some into securities for sale to investors and hold
the rest in portfolio. The two entities together purchase
about one-fourth of the nation's home loans. Stricter
standards raise concerns that homeowners' costs could
increase or that the two corporations might be forced to curb
their purchases of riskier loans, often for low-income or
moderate-income housing.
   The Treasury, however, argued that taking steps to meet
high credit-rating standards "should not increase the
borrowing costs of any government-sponsored enterprise, nor
would it significantly impair" their ability to fulfill their
missions. A triple-A rating, Mr. Glauber testified, "would
only reduce the potential need for another federal rescue."
   In addition to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the group
includes the Student Loan Marketing Association, called
Sallie Mae; College Construction Loan Insurance Association,
or Connie Lee; Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corp., or Farmer
Mac; Farm Credit Administration; and Federal Home Loan Banks.
   The corporations were set up by Congress to improve the
flow of money to private borrowers for agricultural loans,
housing and student loans. Under last year's legislation
rescuing the thrift industry, the Treasury was ordered to
examine taxpayers' risk posed by the seven entities.
   Credit-rating concerns rate the debt of companies,
providing a clue that investors use in trying to determine
the level of risk associated with owning a company's
securities.
   Neither Fannie Mae nor Freddie Mac meets the triple-A
standard, and both companies said the Treasury proposal needs
further study to see how it would affect their ability to
carry out their mission of providing money for housing. "We
could live with it, but it raises a lot of questions," a
Freddie Mac spokesman said.
   Thomas Gillis, a managing director at Standard &amp; Poor's
Corp., one of the major credit rating concerns, said that
meeting requirements for a triple-A rating "would not be
impossible" for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. "However, they
would need to make some fairly significant changes to their
balance sheets and their operations." The changes, he said,
would probably diminish the services they offer.
   The Treasury maintained that data generated in the
credit-rating process would serve to disclose the magnitude
of the government's implicit federal subsidy.
   In addition to suggesting Congress adopt a high
credit-rating standard for the enterprises, Mr. Glauber said
the Treasury also is recommending that Congress sever ties
with any of the seven enterprises that aren't adequately
capitalized and don't meet high credit and operations
standards. The Treasury Department also concluded that the
enterprises must have "effective federal supervision."
   Mr. Glauber said some of the government-sponsored
organizations "are among the most thinly capitalized of major
U.S. financial entities," and, unlike other corporations,
"are not subject to the usual market-imposed disciplines of
increased cost or reduced access to capital as their
balance-sheet leverage increases beyond normally prudent
levels." While it may translate into better returns for
shareholders for a successful corporation, the balance-sheet
leverage "can result in tremendous pressure" for federal aid
for an unsuccessful one, he warned.
   The Treasury Department also recommended that Congress
separate regulatory authority for the corporations. Under the
proposal, the agency that monitored financial safety and
soundness standards wouldn't evaluate whether a
government-sponsored enterprise is fulfilling its
congressional mandate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gannett Foundation Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GCI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ARLINGTON, Va. -- The Gannett Foundation selected Salomon
Brothers Inc. to handle the proposed sale of its 10%
ownership of Gannett Co.
   Foundation officials said they would prefer to sell the
block back to Gannett, though it was unclear whether the
media company has the capital to purchase so many shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The foundation put its 15.9 million shares of Gannett
stock on the block late last month because it wanted to
diversify its assets and seek a higher return.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New England Mutual Life Hires Riley
   From Prudential to Head Loomis Sayles
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- New England Mutual Life Insurance Co. hired
Robert Riley, the No. 2 investment officer at Prudential
Insurance Co. of America, as president and chief executive
officer of its Loomis, Sayles &amp; Co. unit.
   Industry officials said Mr. Riley's departure represents a
potential loss for Prudential, where he oversaw a strategic
shift that is credited with helping build assets during a
six-year tenure. He will leave behind responsibility for
$98.7 billion, representing all of Prudential's external, or
nonpremium generated, money-management portfolios, for $30
billion in institutional and individual portfolios at Loomis
Sayles.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Riley will take over his new positions on June 1 from
Robert Kemp, who is helping to run a spinoff of Loomis Sayles
created last October.
   Under Mr. Riley, Prudential helped push what has become a
growing trend in money management toward a looser, more
decentralized way of handling assets. Several specialty
management firms, including concerns focusing on foreign
securities, portfolios that mimic market indexes, or heavily
computer-based investing were bought or formed. Under the
system, principals in the firms were given wider autonomy
than previous in-house portfolio managers, and were rewarded
according to performance.
   "It's been one of the clearest displays of good
money-management marketing," said David O'Donovan, director
of money-manager research at SEI Corp., a Chicago pension
fund consultant. Prudential has "made knowing who to deal
with much clearer, so it's easier to pick and choose."
   It was unclear whether Mr. Riley would be pursuing a
similar strategy at Loomis Sayles, which represents the bulk
of New England Mutual's $57 billion New England Investment
Cos. unit. Mr. O'Donovan speculated that Mr. Riley "might
open them up to different styles and different products."
   But Ralph Verni, chief executive of New England
Investment, said, "We want to continue in the future to
foster a high degree of independence" among money-management
operations, but said that Mr. Riley "won't be taking us into
a lot of different" investment areas. Mr. Riley couldn't be
reached for comment.
   Under Mr. Riley, who recently served as executive vice
president of Prudential Investment Corp. as chairman of
Prudential Realty Group, Prudential's non-premium money
management assets tripled to their current $98.7 billion
level. Acquisitions included Jennison Associated, purchased
in 1985 for $80 million. Assets under management at Jennison
have grown to $21.7 billion from $15 billion at the time of
the purchase.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Black &amp; Decker Is Said to Pick Hammes
   Of Chrysler to Lead Power-Tool Division
   ----
   By Melinda Grenier Guiles and Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   BDK C
</CO>
<LP>
   Black &amp; Decker Corp. is expected to name Michael N.
Hammes, Chrysler Corp.'s vice president of international
operations, to head its largest unit, the $2 billion
power-tools division.
   Joseph E. Cappy, Chrysler vice president of brand
development, will succeed Mr. Hammes, according to Chrysler
officials who asked not to be identified. This could lead to
dismantling a new marketing organization Chrysler set up just
six months ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Chrysler spokesman refused to confirm the moves. "It's
all rumor and speculation and as you know we don't comment on
these things," he said."
   A Black &amp; Decker spokeswoman said she couldn't comment on
"who had been selected" to head the power tool unit, "or when
any announcement would be made." But, she added, it has been
no secret that Black &amp; Decker has been searching for a
"global manager type" for its core power-tools business since
February. That's when George M. Sherman, who turned the
division around with innovative cordless and professional
products backed by savvy marketing campaigns, became
president of Danaher Corp., the Washington, D.C., industrial
products company controlled by Steven and Mitchell Rales.
   The Chrysler officials say Black &amp; Decker has actively
courted Mr. Hammes, a Chicago native with an undergraduate
degree from Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service
and almost 30 years experience with Ford Motor Co. and
Chrysler, which he joined in 1986.
   The 48-year-old Mr. Hammes's last jobs at Ford were vice
president of truck operations for Ford of Europe and
president/managing director of Ford's Mexican subsidiary.
   During his four years with Chrysler, however, Mr. Hammes's
work has consisted mainly of overseeing increased sales and
joint venture activities. Chrysler hasn't any assembly plants
outside North America but is establishing several overseas
production ventures including one with Renault S.A. for Jeep
vehicles in Europe and another with Steyr-Daimler-Puch of
Austria for minivans.
   At Black &amp; Decker, based in Towson, Md., Mr. Hammes is
expected to pick up Mr. Sherman's title of executive vice
president and president of the Power Tools and Home
Improvement Group. This is considered the company's
second-highest post behind Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Nolan Archibald.
   Replacing Mr. Sherman will free Mr. Archibald to focus on
divesting some operations following last year's acquisition
of Emhart Corp., a move designed to broaden Black &amp; Decker's
product lines and expand overseas. But the roughly $2 billion
acquisition saddled the company with high debt and several
unrelated businesses that have been put up for sale -- an
effort that, so far, has been slow and frustrating.
   Mr. Cappy, who is expected to succeed Mr. Hammes, was
named Chrysler's vice president for brand development only
last November. At that time, the Highland Park, Mich., auto
maker streamlined its marketing operations, eliminating one
vice presidency and several middle management positions.
   Mr. Cappy's role in the new structure was to assure that
Chrysler created distinct products for each of its six
brands, a role that seemed to duplicate responsibilities in
other operations. John B. Damoose was given responsibility
for developing distinctive marketing strategies and the title
of vice president, brand marketing.
   It couldn't immediately be determined whether Chrysler
will replace Mr. Cappy, who joined Chrysler in 1987 when the
No. 3 auto maker acquired American Motors Corp. Some Chrysler
executives are said to favor even more streamlining to cut
costs and improve efficiency. This could mean development
activities currently reporting to Mr. Cappy could be merged
with existing design, sales, marketing and engineering
operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Don't Pop the Bubble
   ----
   By Byrle M. Abbin
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   As White House officials and House and Senate negotiators
begin their deficit cutting budget "summit" today, the
federal tax system seems to be one of the targets in their
cross-hairs. And at the center of the bull's-eye is the
"bubble" -- the 33% marginal tax rate on some middle-income
taxpayers.
   Democratic leaders are entering the summit claiming that
they are determined to pop the bubble in the name of fairness
and simplicity by extending a 33% tax rate that allegedly
falls on middle-income taxpayers to "the rich." But
intentional or not, this is a delusion. The Democratic
leadership is using public confusion over the difference
between average and marginal tax rates as a reason to impose
a tax increase on the American economy and to undo the 1986
tax reform.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ironically, the bubble exists because Congress wanted to
introduce more progressivity into the 1986 tax reform. That
reform set two marginal tax rates, 15% and 28%. In order not
to treat upper income taxpayers too generously, however,
Congress decided to deny taxpayers with the highest incomes
the benefit of the 15% rate on their first increments of
income.
   So, at certain levels of taxable income -- between $44,900
and $93,130 for single filers and between $74,850 and
$155,320 for joint filers -- the benefits of the 15% rate are
phased out. This is accomplished by applying a 5% surcharge
to this band of income. A taxpayer whose income level falls
within the band must pay back some, but not all the benefit
received from the 15% rate. A taxpayer whose taxable income
is above this income band gets no benefit from the lower
rate.
   In addition, that taxpayer's personal exemptions are also
taken back by extending the surcharge to income above the
band. Once the tax benefit ($560 per exemption) has been
fully negated, the surcharge no longer exists and the 28% tax
rate resumes. But all of this refers only to marginal tax
rates -- the rate on each additional dollar. Nobody's average
tax rate ever exceeds 28 cents on every taxable dollar of
income, before personal exemptions.
   So, three marginal rates exist, but, as the chart shows,
no taxpayer ever pays an effective or average rate of tax of
more than 28% (see accompanying illustration -- WSJ May 15,
1990). Unfortunately, many people find it hard to grasp this
concept: The bubble may be the first major tax provision ever
repealed simply because it was hard to explain why and how it
works.
   Clearly, as the chart again shows, it is incorrect to
suggest that those upper middle-income taxpayers subject to a
33% marginal tax rate on a portion of their income are being
treated unfairly compared to higher-income taxpayers who pay
a flat rate of 28% on all their income. The higher the income
level the more "pain" there is from the additional tax.
   There is no lower-bracket loophole for the "rich," as some
have maintained; the "rich" in fact pay a higher effective
tax than do the middle-income taxpayers subject to the
bubble. In fact, the bubble actually augments the
progressivity of the tax code.
   The hue and cry over the bubble has failed, curiously, to
direct attention to the rate structure that its detractors
intend to replace it with. As one listens to Democratic
leaders bemoan the decline of progressivity in the federal
tax system during the 1980s, it becomes quite apparent that
their true objective is not simply to eliminate the confusion
created by the phaseouts and surtaxes of the 1986 tax reform.
   Instead, it seems that the bubble poppers want to make 33%
the effective rate for taxpayers with the highest incomes. If
so, the bubble won't go away: It will just float upward to
apply at a higher level of income. Applying a third rate of
33% to the current rate structure and retaining the current
phaseouts would mean that taxpayers over a certain level of
income would find every dollar, not just the marginal
dollars, of their taxable income subject to a 33% tax rate.
Meanwhile with the 5% surtax still in place, upper middle
income taxpayers would find themselves facing yet another
bubble -- but this time of 38%, not 33%.
   Efforts to eliminate the bubble have been brewing for some
time, and though defeated, they remain on the tax legislative
agenda. The idea lingers on partly because of widespread
ignorance of the probable impact of the bubble's elimination.
Any plan to pop the bubble would probably impose sizeable
increases in tax rates on many taxpayers. One likely result
of those higher rates would be increased political pressure
to reverse the basic tradeoff of lower rates for a broader
tax base that formed the foundation of the Tax Reform Act of
1986.
   The plan the House of Representatives considered last
September would create such pressures. The plan would have
created three marginal rates, of 15%, 28% and 33%. It was
defeated then, but some Democrats would like the White House
to consider it again now. The effect of the adoption of this
plan would be to increase the average tax rate above the 28%
level, so that it would approach, though never actually hit,
33% for taxpayers with the highest incomes.
   For a family of four, the tax increase would kick in at
about $200,000 of taxable income. For those taxpayers, this
simple "correction" -- "in correcting that, we are not
creating a new tax" said Speaker Thomas Foley in September --
would be traumatic. The Joint Tax Committee staff estimates
the proceeds of the "correction" at $4.2 billion in fiscal
1991 and $44.3 billion over the next five years. That's no
correction -- that's a tax increase.
   Fairness and clarity, if they are indeed the purposes of
the bubble-poppers, don't require more revenue. Bubble
popping does not have to be code for soaking the rich.
Instead, current law could be replaced with three marginal
rates, but the income levels at which the 28% and 33%
marginal rates apply would be adjusted so that no more and no
less revenue would be raised than is raised under current
law. The fact that this option is not being taken seriously
is a sure sign that the bubble poppers are interested in
something other than fixing the technical quirks of the tax
system.
   ---
   Mr. Abbin is the managing director of Arthur Andersen's
Office of Federal Tax Services in Washington, D.C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Nevada Power Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NVP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEVADA POWER Co. (Las Vegas, Nev.) -- James C. Holcombe,
president and chief operating officer, was appointed a
director of this utility, increasing the board to 11.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Seoul Firms Daunted by Soviet Realities
   ---
   Hopes Are Dashed as
   Many Deals Fall Through
   ----
   By Joseph P. Manguno
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST C.SSG C.HUN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- Lee Sang Mo has been in the Soviet capital for
three months and still doesn't have an office. The head of
the Moscow liaison branch of South Korea's Lucky-Goldstar
Group sits in a cramped hotel room, eating instant noodles
out of a throwaway plastic bowl. He can't speak Russian or
find a private lawyer to represent the group. It takes a day
or two to get a call through to his Seoul headquarters.
   "I think I need a year or 18 months longer just to get
these difficulties under control," he says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Across town, Kwon Young Chul, executive director of Daewoo
Group's Moscow office, has just seen his first joint venture
with a Soviet partner collapse. After months of negotiation
and planning, the state tourism company, Intourist, withdrew
from a project to build a $75 million hotel in Moscow with
Daewoo. The two sides disagreed on which party was going to
operate it.
   "Intourist pulled out at the last minute because we
insisted on Daewoo having management rights," says Mr. Kwon.
"They wouldn't agree. They are accustomed to running hotels
themselves."
   As South Koreans back home grow increasingly giddy at the
prospect of normalized relations and lucrative economic
tie-ups with the Soviet Union, those who have already tried
for such links are grappling with daunting realities. "We
have serious problems to resolve," says Daewoo's Mr. Kwon:
"How to operate in this environment, how to make a profit and
how to get that profit back to our country and our company."
   Mr. Kwon and other Korean executives are finding that
trying to conclude contracts with the Soviets, or just
obtaining clear answers about who has the authority to make
decisions, is a frustrating process rife with ambiguity,
uncertainty and dead ends. In the midst of the great economic
and political upheavals wracking the Soviet Union, Korean
executives say, relationships are fraught with unrealistic
expectations on both sides, diplomatic confusion and mutual
misunderstanding and suspicion.
   "It's reality time for South Koreans trying to operate in
the Soviet Union," says Dieter Mann, a West German consultant
hired to help a Seoul business group establish a base in
Moscow. He says Koreans are discovering what Western and
Japanese businessmen learned long ago: "Nothing works here.
For the can-do Koreans, this is very difficult to accept."
   Those problems have been compounded by recent Soviet
acknowledgments that the nation's economy is in critical
condition and that Moscow is having trouble paying its debts.
Some Korean businessmen haven't been paid for months, says
the state-financed Korean Trade Promotion Corp., which
estimates unpaid Soviet bills at $30 million. For South
Korean companies, whose government still has no diplomatic
relations with Moscow and thus no legal way to collect on
failed investments, the collection problems have cooled the
urge to rush into major commitments.
   Soviet and Korean officials add that those problems have
been exacerbated by conflicting signals from Seoul and Moscow
over the progress toward normalization of relations. They
complain particularly that Kim Young Sam, co-leader of South
Korea's ruling Democratic Liberal Party, raised false hopes
about the speed of normalization during his visit to Moscow
in March and that those hopes have been fanned by the Korean
media into unrealistic expectations.
   "Things are moving a lot slower than most people in Seoul
want to believe," says Sung Jung Hyun, who directs the
state-run Korea Trade Promotion Corp., or Kotra, the official
liaison agency for economic dealings between the two
countries. The one bright spot, he says, is trade.
   Mr. Sung notes that trade between the two countries, while
still a negligible portion of the total exports and imports
for each, is rising sharply. Starting in the late 1970s, with
indirect exchanges of goods through third countries, trade
between Moscow and Seoul had by last year grown to $510
million, more than double the 1988 level. Mr. Sung forecasts
that the exchange of goods will reach $800 million this year,
$350 million in Korean exports to Moscow and $450 million in
Soviet exports to Seoul.
   In contrast to the Koreans' optimism about trade, several
Japanese trading houses notified their government last week
that some of their Soviet trading partners are delaying
payment on import contracts. The Japanese companies are
seeking to claim export insurance on trade with the Soviet
Union.
   Nevertheless, for individual South Korean companies, the
mounting trade is a hopeful sign. Daewoo's Mr. Kwon says that
in 1989, his group sold $20 million in goods to the Soviets.
It expects to triple that this year, mostly in motors,
electric and electronic goods, and consumer items such as
socks and razors, which are scarce in the Soviet Union.
   Gratifying as the progress in trade is, however, the chief
economic interest of both countries and their companies is
Korean investment in the Soviet Union. And that investment
remains more talk than action.
   A year after Seoul's Jindo Corp. signed the first
Soviet-South Korean joint venture, an $800,000 fur shop in
Moscow, no other Korean company has followed with further
investment, Mr. Sung says.
   Daewoo, Lucky-Goldstar and Seoul's two biggest
conglomerates, Hyundai and Samsung, have established a
presence in Moscow during the past year, along with Jindo, to
pursue a broad range of investments. Two others, the Kolon
and Sunkyong groups, are in line for Soviet approval to do so
soon. And there is much talk about deals in the pipeline,
with Samsung, Hyundai Group, Daewoo and Lucky-Goldstar now
boasting long lists of joint-venture projects in various
stages of negotiation or study.
   Lucky-Goldstar's Mr. Lee says he has more than 10 in the
works, including a plan to manufacture and assemble home
appliances for which the group has signed a letter of intent.
Samsung and Hyundai say each has eight or nine projects under
discussion. Daewoo's Mr. Kwon says he is talking with Soviet
counterparts "about 100 projects of all types and sizes."
   Yet, the Soviet Institute of World Economic and
International Relations, the state agency chiefly responsible
for monitoring the budding business relationship with South
Korea, says it knows of only about a dozen projects making
serious progress.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monday's Markets:
   Stocks Soar to Record;
   Buying Frenzy Cools
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease and Craig Torres
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Bullish investors stampeded the Dow Jones Industrial
Average to a record high, but by yesterday afternoon the
rally that began last Friday was quickly losing energy.
   The industrial average rose 19.95 to close at 2821.53 in
heavy trading, eclipsing the Jan. 2 high of 2810.15. But the
gain represented a sharp decline from the intraday advance of
50.44 at about 1 p.m. EDT.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bond prices posted solid gains, pushing long-term interest
rates lower, but their advance also weakened in late trading.
The dollar continued to lose ground against most currencies,
albeit at a slower pace than in Friday's sharp retreat.
   The stock market's performance Friday and Monday raised
questions about the extent to which prices can keep rising.
"When it happens so suddenly, I've got to be suspicious about
it," said Laszlo Birinyi, a stock market strategist.
"Suddenly Friday everybody saw the light. It was a sudden
right turn and I don't think those are the situations that
lead to continued long, long gains."
   Mr. Birinyi and others were also concerned that the
biggest price gains yesterday continued to come in a small
group of big, well-known stocks. The broader market, which
has lagged the industrial average badly in recent months,
remains far short of old records. Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock
index, for instance, closed at 354.75, nearly 1.5% below its
Oct. 9, 1989, record high of 359.80.
   The rally was triggered Friday by plunging interest rates
as bond investors bid up prices of Treasury issues. The bond
market was responding not only to evidence that inflation is
waning and economic growth is moderate, but also to the
positive mood created by the apparent willingness of the Bush
administration and Congress to work together to trim the
nation's huge budget deficit.
   The perception that interest rates had peaked a week
earlier when the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond yielded more
than 9% inspired money managers to shift money into the stock
market from their bulging hoards of cash. The euphoric buying
drove the industrial average up 63.07 points Friday.
   Yesterday morning saw money managers continuing their
buying spree, with big blue-chip technology, energy and
chemical stocks their primary targets. Their buying was
punctuated by several waves of stock-index arbitrage buy
programs that pushed the industrial average up more than 50
points at 1 p.m. EDT.
   But the buying enthusiasm was tempered when news services
carried comments from White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater
that he expects deficit-cutting negotiations between
President Bush and Congress to "last weeks, if not months."
   "As soon as that headline came up on the newswires, the
market went from about plus 51 to plus 30," said Arthur
Cashin Jr., director of floor operations for PaineWebber Inc.
"The bulk of the rationale for the rally has been a change in
interest rates," Mr. Cashin said, but the budget news set
back expectations that interest rates could continue to slide
much lower. Mr. Birinyi, the stock market strategist, said he
still expects the stock market to do better than it has in
the past few months, with the Dow Jones industrials
approaching the 3000 mark in coming weeks. "But I'd be
surprised if we go above that level and then you're going to
go back to more of the same thing we've had all year --
dramatic trading and a lot of volatility within a price
range."
   Skeptical money managers suggested that the rapid price
action is more a symptom of the volatility in the market than
of any underlying change in the economy or the outlook for
such fundamental measures of stock values as corporate
profits.
   "I continue to be amazed at the rapidity with which
emotions change over the course of a few hours or a few
days," said Ellen Harris, manager of the PaineWebber Classic
Growth Fund. "Concerns that were expressed 11 days ago have
now been forgotten. Economists who would have thrown in the
towel are now focusing on the numbers that are going their
way."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices climbed sharply in heavy trading. Volume
totaled 225.4 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange,
where advancing issues swamped losers 1,062 to 555.
   Bond prices rose. The Treasury's new benchmark 30-year
bond gained 5/8 point, or about $6.25 for each $1,000 of face
amount. The yield on the issue slipped to 8.58%.
   The dollar fell modestly. In late New York trading the
U.S. currency was quoted at 1.6425 marks and 152.47 yen,
compared with 1.6478 marks and 152.65 yen Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The Sooner, the Better
   ----
   By Joe Queenan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<LP>
   Five days a week, Jim Lehrer has a very tough job indeed.
As co-anchor of PBS's "MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour," he must sit
poker-faced while Middle Eastern ambassadors lie about their
nation's plans for all that imported uranium; while
howdy-doody spokesmen for companies whose products kill
people insist that they don't; while lascivious congressmen
with their hearts set on 16-year-old pages rail against the
fulsome lyrics you can hear if you play rock songs backward.
   But on the sixth and seventh days, the eminently likable
Mr. Lehrer rests -- by taking up his pen and venting his
spleen. This is something he does to great effect in his new
novel "The Sooner Spy" (Putnam, 222 pages, $19.95). The book
is the third in a series featuring One-Eyed Mack, the first
acting one-eyed lieutenant governor in the history of
Oklahoma, and a laugh bonanza it is from start to finish.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This time around, Mack locks horns with a young Choctaw
graduating from Oklahoma Southeastern State College who seeks
a job with the Central Intelligence Agency but feels the
agency is discriminating against him because of his race.
Calvin Howell Youngfoot is certain that if he could only
locate a Russian spy hiding somewhere in the state of
Oklahoma, he could convince the CIA of his worth. Mack agrees
to help, securing the assistance of his best friend, the
one-eared director of the Oklahoma Bureau of Investigation.
The madcap hunt for the Sooner Spy leads to a Soviet defector
masquerading as a Rotarian manager of a drive-thru
supermarket in semi-rural Oklahoma. He is only given his new
identity by the feds because he knows all the words to the
song "Oklahoma." This leads to a delightful moment when Mack
suggests that the defector be relocated:
   "Why don't you go now and get the guy and get him out of
here? Move him somewhere else in America. He must have a
second favorite Broadway show. What about Iowa? Does he like
`The Music Man?'"
   Whether Mack is talking about his new jacket reading
"acting Governor of Oklahoma" or citing his optical frailty
("We each looked away and then back at each other. My one eye
had both of his locked"), "The Sooner Spy" keeps the gags
coming. A thoroughly impudent assault on politicians,
lobbyists and civic groups everywhere -- but particularly in
Oklahoma -- the book might give guests on Mr. Lehrer's show
pause the next time his face lights up with that cherubic
little smile. Consider this exchange, when the dean of
Oklahoma Southeastern State asks why Mack is so interested in
the Case of the Centrally Intelligent Choctaw:
   "Sorry, Dean. It's Top State of Oklahoma Secret Business."
   "I didn't know there was such a thing."
   The only mystery that remains is: How could a guy who
spends this much time hanging out with Roger Mudd, Norman
Ornstein, Roger Rosenblatt and Nina Totenberg be this funny?
   Two other journalists have recently made forays outside
their chosen field, with less-impressive results. In "Mayday
Man" (Brassey's, 213 pages, $15.95), Pulitzer Prize-winning
political correspondent William Beecher has written an
impossibly convoluted thriller about a group of Egyptian
zealots who devise a plan to drop a nuclear weapon on Moscow
and trick the Russians into thinking Israel is responsible.
Because the tale is set during the reign of Anwar Sadat, we
know that the event could never have taken place, not only
because history tells us so, but because the idea is so dumb.
   Mr. Beecher's prose style doesn't help matters. Although
he does a workmanlike job with the narrative portions of the
tale, the dialogue is Saturday Night at the Hoot Farm. "Do
you take me for an innocent goatherd?" Colonel Qadhafi
demands in one of his disappointingly rare appearances in
contemporary fiction. Mr. Beecher would also have us believe
that a U.S. senator hiring a journalist as a policy planner
at the Pentagon would bark: "I want some creative,
unconventional thinking in this musty old fudge factory." Oh,
yeah, I can just hear Bob Dole and Sam Nunn now: "Can the
piffle and stow the malarkey. Let's get down to brass tacks
here in this musty old fudge factory]" What do you take us
for, Mr. Beecher, innocent goatherds?
   Speaking of fudge factories, how about John Chancellor's
"Peril and Promise: A Commentary on America" (Harper &amp; Row,
171 pages, $17.95). Yes, there comes a time in every retired
news reader's life when he wants to be accorded the status of
philosopher-king, like Socrates or Montesquieu or Bill
Moyers. With that end in mind, the former NBC anchorman, who
now provides something called "commentary" for the network,
has compiled a dreary, predictable list of everything that
has gone wrong in the U.S. in the past 30 years, followed by
his dreary, predictable prescriptions for turning things
around.
   Mr. Chancellor does have the good grace to include a
"sources" section, the honorable thing to do when you've
written a volume that doesn't contain a single original
thought. Moreover, most of the thoughts that he's borrowed
are pretty jaded, including, for instance, a value-added
national sales tax, always a favorite with the
expense-account set. The book reads like a very long
commencement speech given at a very small university where
the speaker receives a very cheap-looking plaque for a job
not very well done. Gee, isn't Oklahoma Southeastern looking
for a guest speaker this June?
   ---
   Mr. Queenan is a free-lance writer living in Tarrytown,
N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Time Off: Diversions and Excursions May 15-28
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<LP>
   ART
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Brooklyn Museum, Brooklyn, N.Y.: "The Intimate
Interiors of Edouard Vuillard" -- The first major exhibition
in nearly 20 years devoted to Vuillard, whose jewel-like
paintings depict scenes from 19th-century bourgeois life. The
more than 100 paintings and works on paper include
self-portraits, family scenes, paintings of seamstresses and
portraits of the artist's intimate, the salon-keeper Misia
Natanson. 200 Eastern Parkway, May 18-July 30.
                                                                                                       

   The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York: "Masterworks of
Louis Comfort Tiffany" -- Windows, lamps, mosaics, ceramics,
bronzes, paintings and jewelry by this master glassmaker. The
show includes some of Tiffany's earliest experiments with
Favrile glass and leaded glass shades, as well as such
opulent later creations as the "Helen Gould Landscape
Window." More than 5,000 pieces of glass were used to create
this 11-foot panel, depicting a fawn drinking at a stream.
82nd Street and Fifth Avenue, through Sept. 9.
                                                                                                       

   Place des Antiquaires, New York: "Chinnery &amp; The China
Coast-Paintings from the Collection of The Hongkong and
Shanghai Bank" -- A first-ever exhibition of 70 paintings by
19th-century artists working in South China. Unknown Chinese
artists are represented here along with Europeans such as
George Chinnery, an English portraitist and draughtsman.
Works include portraits of English traders and their lavish
estates, Hong Kong merchants, and scenes from Asian life and
trade. 125 E. 57th St., through June 2. (Monday through
Saturday, 11-6). The show then leaves the country for
Luxembourg and London.
                                                                                                       

   Yale Center for British Art, New Haven, Conn.: "Powder
Celestial: Snuff Boxes, 1700-1880" -- Men and women in all
walks of life indulged in snuff, as a survey of the 300-odd
European boxes collected here shows. The flasks, mulls and
boxes are fashioned out of everything from wood, papier-mache
and coquilla nut to tortoise shell, ivory, agate and straw.
1080 Chapel St., through June 24.
                                                                                                       

   PHOTOGRAPHY
                                                                                                       

   International Center of Photography Midtown, New York:
"Lee Miller: Photographer" -- This fashion model, war
correspondent, world traveler and chef also knew what to do
with a camera. The 96 photographs on view here include
powerful images from Ms. Miller's stint with the U.S. Army
during World War II along with early surrealist photos and
revealing portraits of Pablo Picasso, Man Ray and other
friends. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, through June 10. The
show then moves to the Art Institute of Chicago, June 23-Aug.
26; Santa Monica Museum of Art, Sept. 8-Nov. 4; The Rochester
Institute of Technology, Rochester, N.Y., Nov. 12-Dec. 2.
                                                                                                       

   DANCE
                                                                                                       

   Parsons Dance Company: As a Paul Taylor dancer, David
Parsons always stood out from the pack with his witty
athleticism, his nonchalant virtuosity. Now his own fledgling
troupe is starting to do the same. The company shows why in
its first major New York season, tonight through May 20.
Among the three premieres scheduled are "Nascimento," a lush
ensemble work to an original score by Brazilian composer
Milton Nascimento; and "Elysian Fields," an exploration of
violence that features Parsons as a deceptively
angelic-looking demon. Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Ave. (at
19th Street). 212-242-0800.
                                                                                                       

   MUSIC
                                                                                                       

   Minnesota Opera, Minnesota: The world premiere of Libby
Larsen's "Frankenstein, The Modern Prometheus" on May 25
retells Mary Shelley's sad story of the manmade monster who
searches for love and understanding in a cruel world. Dale
Johnson conducts a cast including Steven Tharp as Dr. Victor
Frankenstein and Tom Schumacher as the monster. World
Theater, 10 East Exchange St., St. Paul, Minn. 612-298-1300.
                                                                                                       

   Charleston, S.C.: The Spoleto Festival U.S.A. starts off
on May 25 with a gala performance of Beethoven's Seventh
conducted by Leonard Bernstein. The 114-event festival
includes a new production of Wagner's "Parsifal," directed by
Gian Carlo Menotti, and the world premiere of a multimedia
piece by Philip Glass, Allen Ginsberg and Jerome Sirlin, "The
Hydrogen Jukebox." Dance, chamber music and theater are also
featured this season, which closes on June 10. To order
tickets by phone call 800-868-7228 or 803-577-4500.
                                                                                                       

   Greenwich House, New York: Friends &amp; Enemies of New Music
celebrates its first season with a concert offering new works
by, among others, Nancy Gunn and Tom Cipullo. 27 Barrow St.
212-874-4814.
                                                                                                       

   3 Mustaphas 3: Though their origins are more British than
Balkan, this fez-sporting sextet serves up a spicy musical
goulash. Expect to hear some of the wild and wooly material
from their current release, "Heart of Uncle" (Rykodisc),
which mingles styles from Southern Europe, the Middle East,
Africa, the Caribbean and beyond, way beyond -- New York
(Lone Star Roadhouse), May 15; Washington, D.C. (The Ritz),
May 16; Baltimore (8 X 10), May 17; Tampa, Fla. (Cuban Club),
May 19; Winston-Salem, N.C. (Mayfest), May 20;
Charlottesville, Va. (Trax), May 21; Toronto (The Diamond),
May 24; Chicago (Navy Pier Ballroom), May 27; San Francisco
(Slim's), May 29; Seattle (Backstage), June 1; Vancouver
(Commodore Ballroom), June 2.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A25
</SO>
<LP>
   Good-Guy Blues
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   After working on many a thankless task,
   With humdrum labor galore,
   I've found it's not the task that's thankless,
   But the folks I'm doing it for.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   Repartee
                                                                                                       

   Backward, turn backward,
   O time in your flight;
   I just thought of a retort
   I needed last night.
   -- Gail Cooke.
   ---
   Profitable Perk
                                                                                                       

   One company provided etiquette seminars for its employees,
and used them as a tact write-off.
   -- Rodney Stevens.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<LP>
   INTERACTIVE NETWORK Inc., Mountain View, Calif., has been
conducting inhome tests of its interactive television system
for six weeks. In Thursday's edition, the time period was
misstated.
   (See: "Media: `Interactive TV' Test Is Watched to See
Who's More Than Remotely Interested" -- WSJ May 10, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   AIR CANADA'S first-quarter results included 6 million
Canadian dollars (US$5.1 million) net proceeds from the sale
of shares in an investment and an undisclosed amount from the
sale of an aircraft. Yesterday's edition incorrectly
described these sales as extraordinary gains and misstated
the total amount.
   (See: "Air Canada Says Loss for 1st Quarter Was Flat at
$11.1 Million" -- WSJ May 14, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raw-Steel Production
   Rose 1% Last Week
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Raw-steel production by the nation's mills
increased 1% last week to 1,960,000 tons from 1,941,000 tons
the previous week, the American Iron and Steel Institute
said.
   Last week's output fell 0.1% from the 1,958,000 tons
produced a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The industry used 87.2% of its capability last week,
compared with 86.4% the previous week and 88.51% a year ago.
                                                                                                       

   The American Iron and Steel Institute reported:
                                                                                                       

                                      Net tons   Capability
                                      produced  utilization
                                                                                                       

   Week to May 12 ..................  1,960,000     87.2%
   Week to May 5 ...................  1,941,000     86.4%
   Year to date .................... 36,210,000     85.6%
   Year earlier to date ............ 37,721,000     89.8%
                                                                                                       

   The capability utilization rate is a calculation designed
to indicate at what percent of its production capability the
industry is operating in a given week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Here's the Latest Dope to Make
   Thrifts' Troubles Go Up in Smoke
   ----
   By Carrie Dolan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   As the cost of bailing out the battered savings and loan
industry continues to escalate, one group has suggested
letting the whole thing go to pot.
   A California group called Business Alliance for Commerce
in Hemp (BACH) says the plant, the leaves of which make
marijuana, could "save" troubled thrifts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a release titled "Hemp and the Economy," the
organization says "the savings and loan industry could recoup
its losses . . . by allowing debtors to invest in hemp."
   "Marijuana income for 1988 was $41.6 billion," the group
claims, adding that "money generated by sales of relaxational
hemp alone could pay off" a sizable portion of the bailout.
"Estimates of the total legitimate revenues that would be
generated by legal commerce in nonsmoking hemp range from 10
to 100 times that amount." The low end of that range would
just about do the trick: The government now estimates the S&amp;L
bailout will cost between $400 billion and $500 billion.
   Nonrelaxational uses for hemp are numerous, the group
says. It can be made into fuel or cooking oil ("So long OPEC
and oil shortages]") or into clothing (fabrics made from hemp
hold "shape as well as polyester" and can be woven as "smooth
as silk or intricate as lace"). Dale Gieringer, coordinator
for California's branch of the National Organization for the
Reform of Marijuana Laws, says hemp shorts and shirts
imported from China are "one of our best sellers."
   BACH appeals to nationalist feelings, asserting that the
Declaration of Independence and the U.S. Constitution were
probably both originally drafted on paper made from hemp. And
"hemp could save the family farm in America. But special
interest groups have kept it out of the reach of our
patriotic and hard working farmers."
   Not out of the hands of all farmers, of course. "Although
illegal, cannabis is already the largest cash crop in several
states, including California," the group says. A spokeswoman
for the state's multi-agency Campaign Against Marijuana
Planting effort concurs.
   Still, the prospect of turning to hemp to help thrifts
remains hazy, according to federal regulators. "I see
political problems" with using marijuana to support failed
S&amp;Ls, says a spokesman for the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. in Washington. "My alternative is to make it available
to taxpayers to ease the trauma of paying for the S&amp;L
bailout."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Morgan Stanley Loses
   Kipnis, Who Is Hired
   By County NatWest
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MS NW
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Gregory M. Kipnis, who helped run Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co.'s high-tech trading unit, resigned from the
firm yesterday to join County NatWest Ltd.
   Mr. Kipnis, 49 years old, who was a principal at Morgan
Stanley, will join County NatWest as an executive director in
charge of the British broker-dealer's world-wide proprietary
trading and risk management. He will be based in London.
County NatWest has been aggressively building up its equity
operations this year; the dealer has hired several former
Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc. employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lately, Mr. Kipnis was responsible for distributing some
of the technology developed by Morgan's Analytical
Proprietary Trading unit to the other trading departments
around the firm. Mr. Kipnis's departure follows the
resignation of Nunzio Tartaglia, the former director of the
Analytical Proprietary Trading unit, eight months ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Top Thornburgh
   Aide Is to Resign;
   Shake-Up Expands
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The shake-up at the Justice Department
continued as Attorney General Dick Thornburgh's top aide,
Robert Ross, said he will resign and chief spokesman David
Runkel was moved to an advisory role in which he won't deal
directly with the media.
   The moves clear the way for Assistant Attorney General
William Barr to become the department's No. 2 official with
broad authority over its day-to-day operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Department officials close to Mr. Thornburgh portrayed the
latest personnel maneuvers as signaling the diminution of the
authority of the attorney general's inner circle of personal
aides, some of whom have served him since his two terms as
governor of Pennsylvania.
   Messrs. Ross and Runkel, among other Thornburgh aides,
have been criticized within the department and on Capitol
Hill as inexperienced in national politics and excessively
concerned with their boss's political fortunes.
   "This has the effect, though it wasn't the sole goal, of
opening up the department," said one senior official who is
close to Mr. Thornburgh but who refused to be quoted by name.
"The attorney general is not insensitive to the `palace
guard' charges that have been made."
   "We're now in a position to get the management structure
the way we wanted it," said Mr. Ross, who served first as
deputy counsel and then as chief of staff on Mr. Thornburgh's
gubernatorial team. Mr. Ross, who previously indicated he
intended to stay at the department for only a short period,
left his job voluntarily and will complete a reorganization
of the department's international office before returning to
private law practice in Philadelphia.
   Mr. Thornburgh's staff shuffling reflects continuing
political difficulties that have plagued him since he took
office in August 1988. On Friday, Donald Ayer, deputy
attorney general, announced his resignation after six months
on the job. Even though he officially was the department's
No. 2 official, Mr. Ayer found himself outranked in practice
by Mr. Ross. Mr. Barr was nominated to succeed him as deputy
attorney general.
   Last year, Mr. Thornburgh's first choice for the deputy
job, Robert Fiske, was forced to withdraw from consideration
when conservatives attacked his role with the American Bar
Association committee that evaluates potential federal
judicial nominees.
   Mr. Thornburgh apparently decided to reassign Mr. Runkel
because he is concerned about numerous news reports about his
political setbacks. Mr. Runkel, whose successor wasn't named,
will stay on, at least in the near term, to advise the
attorney general on "long-term public relations" matters. Mr.
Runkel declined to comment.
   The new Thornburgh team plans to "reconsider" the attorney
general's clampdown on dissemination of information about
department actions and policies, according to some officials.
The policy has prompted protests from reporters and
lawmakers.
   Officials close to Mr. Thornburgh said the attorney
general always had intended to reduce the role of his
personal staff after an initial transition period. This
process was delayed, according to the officials, because of
the Fiske defeat and the attorney general's concern that Mr.
Ayer asserted too much independence. The attorney general is
also said to have been unhappy about the way Mr. Ayer handled
several assignments that resulted in public criticism of the
Justice Department.
   Mr. Barr, considered tough and skilled by allies and foes,
isn't expected to encounter significant opposition when he
goes before the Senate for confirmation. In his current post
as an assistant attorney general, he has stirred controversy
as pointman for the administration's efforts to enact a
constitutional amendment banning flag-burning and as author
of official legal opinions authorizing expanded international
police activities by U.S. law-enforcement agents and
soldiers.
   Officials close to Mr. Thornburgh portrayed Mr. Barr as
having quickly forged a close working relationship with the
attorney general since taking over the Justice Department's
Office of Legal Counsel last year.
   A former legislative aide for the Central Intelligence
Agency and domestic policy adviser in the Reagan White House,
Mr. Barr has aggressively defended the executive branch's
authority against purported infringement by Congress -- a
favorite issue for both Mr. Thornburgh and President Bush.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Banks See Golden Opportunity in Junk
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI JPM BT FNB
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Amid the rubble of the battered junk-bond
market, some powerful new players are stirring: the major
banks.
   Using banks' newly won powers to underwrite corporate
bonds, Citicorp, J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. and Bankers Trust New York
Corp. have all established groups specializing in sales and
trading of high-risk, high-yield junk bonds. And First
Chicago Corp., has just begun staffing up for a junk-bond
effort.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It's another example of how big banks are trying to muscle
in on the securities business dominated by Wall Street.
   Executives at all three New York banks say they plan a
long-term effort to develop relationships with investors who
want to buy junk bonds, and with companies that want to issue
junk.
   Even after the near-collapse of the $200 billion junk
market last fall, the bankers think they are smart enough to
navigate the risks of a market where Wall Street securities
firms have stumbled.
   "Credit is something we feel we know a little bit about,"
says Ramon de Oliveira, head of the high-yield group at J.P.
Morgan. He says commercial banks can thrive in the minefield
of junk by using "the skills we have developed in our banking
practice."
   Despite the junk market's current woes, which began with
credit crises last summer at Integrated Resources Inc. and
Campeau Corp., bankers believe the market will survive and,
eventually, prosper.
   But some Wall Street executives find it ironic that banks
are invading the junk market at a time when they are
retreating, under pressure from banking regulators, from
making bank loans for leveraged buy-outs and other takeovers
involving heavy debt loads. These so-called highly leveraged
transactions often include large amounts of junk bonds.
   But bankers insist they won't get in over their heads in
the junk market, the way banks did with loans to less
developed countries or real estate developers. Banks will
avoid going overboard, they say, by keeping their junk-bond
holdings modest and trading in and out of the market quickly.
   "It's deliberately not our strategy to acquire assets as
an asset holder," says Robert Lawrence, manager of the
high-yield department of Citicorp's securities unit, Citicorp
Securities Markets Inc. "We intend to sell and trade these
securities much as we trade in any other instruments."
   As yet, none of the banks has underwritten a single new
issue of junk bonds, an important goal if banks are to
establish themselves as serious players in the junk market.
That's because the new-issue market has been moribund since
late last year; only two new junk-bond issues have come to
market this year.
   Mr. Lawrence concedes that the junk market "has certainly
deteriorated since we made our original plans" to jump in.
Citicorp executives have even asked themselves whether they
are getting in too late, he says.
   But bankers insist the junk market is too important for
them to stand aside. "You can't ignore something that
represents more than 20% of the entire corporate bond
market," says J.P. Morgan's Mr. Oliveira. "Whatever shape the
market is in now, it still represents a legitimate market and
asset class."
   Mr. Oliveira notes that despite its blue-chip image,
Morgan has many clients who invest in and issue junk bonds.
"We have to cover the high-yield market to service these
clients," he says.
   Because only a handful of new issues have been sold this
year, the banks have concentrated on research, sales and
trading to build up their customer base. Bankers Trust has
been busy doing trades averaging $2 million apiece in size;
it recently ranked second among all junk-bond dealers in one
trading category in a poll of institutional investors by
Greenwich Associates, a consulting firm.
   Tim Yates, managing director in charge of high-yield and
structured sales at Bankers Trust, says his company aims to
join Wall Street securities firms as one of the top five
firms in junk. "We entered trading and sales in order to
build a strong new-issue distribution capability," he says.
   Citicorp last fall lured Mariel Clemensen, head of junk
research, from Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp.
to run Citicorp's research operation. Recently, First Chicago
hired Robert Lupo, formerly head of junk research at Smith
Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co.
   Bankers believe that the research will result in a
new-issue capability that can be exploited once the junk
new-issue market comes back. Mr. Lawrence of Citicorp
believes that new junk issues, which reached a peak of more
than $45 billion in 1986 in public and private offerings, can
rebound to $30 billion a year.
   What will make that happen?
   Although the market value of all junk bonds outstanding
may have shrunk from $200 billion to as little as $150
billion by some estimates, those bonds are throwing off
interest income of roughly $25 billion annually.
   Bankers believe that eventually this income, together with
funds from bargain-hunting investors, will generate enough
demand for junk to overcome the selling pressure from
thrifts, insurance companies and mutual funds. That would
cause the junk market to resume expanding, they say.
   The big banks generally insist they are in the junk market
for the long haul. They won't cut and run when times get
tough, as many big banks have in the London securities
market.
   "We don't look at businesses here with a short-term
orientation," says Citicorp's Mr. Lawrence. "It may take
three to five years to build a business franchise. This is a
long-term business, and we decided we should take our time
and do it well." At any rate, he says his group has made
money this year and last.
   ---
            Establishing a Foothold in Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

 BANK COMPANY/          NUMBER OF PEOPLE
 CAPITALIZATION         IN HIGH-YIELD
 OF SECURITIES UNIT     DEPARTMENT         DEALS
                                                                                                       

 Bankers Trust          7 Research      None yet. Sale of
 $479 million           7 Sales         $100 million senior
                        4 Investment    notes for
                           bankers      Morningstar Farms
                        3 Trading       dairy buy-out
                                        scrapped last fall
                                        due to market
                                        conditions
                                                                                                       

 J.P. Morgan           12 Research      None yet
 $468.8 million         8 Sales
                        4 Trading
                        4 Investment
                           bankers
                                                                                                       

 First Chicago          2 Executives    None. Company has
 $100 million           1 Research      applied for but not
                        1 Sales         yet received power
                                        to underwrite
                                        corporate bonds
                                                                                                       

 Citicorp               9 Sales         None yet. Plans
 Undisclosed            3 Trading       $270 million private
                        7 Research      sale of Uniroyal
                       15 Investment    chemical
                           bankers
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- The Mobile Guide:
   Going for the Cultural Burn in Southern Cal
   ----
   By David Littlejohn
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<LP>
   Los Angeles -- Self-absorbed, a blond indigena fondles her
locks as she stops alongside us for a traffic light on the
Pacific Coast Highway. On the hill heading up to Malibu
North, a brunette in a black convertible lets her long hair
fly wild, perhaps in order to cultivate the look one sees in
fashionable cafes: tangled, witchy black wires that must be
impossible to comb.
   But we aren't here (primarily) for the blonds and
brunettes who tool along the coast. We are here to hear
Domingo &amp; Co. singing Verdi (when they should have been
singing Tchaikovsky); to sample a series of absurdist plays
of the '50s and '60s playing in rep at the Mark Taper Forum;
to see the Francis Bacon retrospective at the Los Angeles
County Museum. We are here to look at new buildings and taste
the good life, and to do all this in three days, because we
work very hard at our culture in Southern California.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Placido Domingo, who has been listed as "artistic
consultant" to the Los Angeles Music Center Opera since it
was founded four years ago, was originally scheduled to sing
his first Ghermann in "Queen of Spades" (or "Pikovaya Dama,"
if you like, since he was to sing it in Russian).
   On Jan. 26, with all the artists engaged and sets under
construction, Mr. Domingo announced that an attack of flu
would prevent him from learning the part in time. The company
decided to scrap the opera and find another that Mr. Domingo
already knew. "True to history," grumbled local critic Martin
Bernheimer, "Los Angeles has once again catered to a star
ego."
   For all the haste and confusion, the result was very
happy. "Don Carlo" is a better opera than "Queen of Spades"
after all, and the production, borrowed in frantic haste from
the Lyric Opera of Chicago, did it justice. Although he got
most of the bravos and bouquets, Mr. Domingo was only one
among six nearly equal leads in this hard-to-cast work,
singing with his usual ringing splendor, acting a bit
hammily. The four variously tormented Spanish royals and
nobles around him were all from the U.S.S.R., as was the
excellent conductor, Yuri Simonov of the Bolshoi Opera. (Mr.
Simonov and Natalia Troitskaya, who played Elisabetta, had
originally been booked for "Queen of Spades.") The other
Soviets -- Nina Terentieva, making her U.S. debut as Eboli;
Barseg Tumanyan as King Philip; and Vladimir Chernov as
Rodrigo -- were brought in partly because they were
available. Unlike major western singers, they hadn't locked
their singing dates in place years in advance. All of them
were far better than average singers (if not actors), and got
across the majesty and power of Verdi's grand l9th-century
political statement.
   Across the dancing waters fountain from the opera, the
cylindrical, intimate Mark Taper Forum had taken the
wonderful risk of putting on 53 performances of 13 short
plays by Beckett, Ionesco, Genet, Pinter, Albee, Baraka and
Shepard, all written between 1947 and 1966.
   I saw only one of the six programs, of Mr. Albee's "The
American Dream" of 1961 and Mr. Pinter's "A Slight Ache" of
1959. The Albee seemed as bitter, unresolved, and in some
ways simplistic as when I first saw it almost 30 years ago.
But good actors and a good director can still make Mr.
Albee's nasty stereotypes hurt. "A Slight Ache" is Mr.
Pinter's flawless image of an insufferably proper pair of
British suburbanites, stripped to their manic inner selves by
the presence of an unspeaking vagrant. Director Michael
Arabian realized it perfectly, through the agency of actors
Bill Moor and Angela Paton. Ms. Paton, who salvaged "The
American Dream" with an outrageous, vaudevillian performance,
offered a one-woman demonstration of the vitality and pain
that endures in these small landmarks of the 20th-century
theater's coming of age.
   The Francis Bacon retrospective achieved something of the
same effect: a reminder that an artist who reached his peak
in the 1950s and '60s can have an awesome, even devastating
effect on contemporary viewers. Super-cool modern critics
profess to find Mr. Bacon's images of tormented, melting,
dismembered human bodies in their stage-set cages and arenas
to be dated period pieces from the angstridden, existential
'50s, out of tune with our cynical post-modern sensibilities.
But they certainly still bother me.
   His most recent work does seem more mellow and less
complex than his classic early triptychs (one of which sold
last year for $6 million). But I would no more fault Mr.
Bacon for the consistency of his vision and method than I
would Giacometti or Chagall. If he is "out of touch" with
contemporary trends, he has been all along. The art world
knows no more dedicated, trend-defying loner. At the Grand
Palais in Paris in 1971, I was stunned to near nightmare by
the sheer horror of what he did to human forms, by what his
perversions seemed to imply. At the Los Angeles museum in
1990, the horrors were still there. But now I realized more
clearly that what kept them just this side of unbearable,
what kept one staring at them, in fact, was the unerring
finesse of Mr. Bacon's craft. Is there anyone alive who knows
how to select colors, arrange compositions, apply paint as
well as this unhappy English octogenarian? The show, which
began at the Hirschhorn Museum in Washington, D.C., in
October 1989, goes on to depress viewers at the Museum of
Modern Art in New York from May 24 to Aug. 28.
   I had hoped to tour Charles Moore's new fantasy palazzos
at the Beverly Hills Civic Center. But seven years and many
millions after ground-breaking, all that seems to be finished
is the parking garage: perhaps another indication of local
priorities. So I settled instead for Rebecca's restaurant
near Venice Beach, designed in 1986 by Los Angeles's current
most-fashionable architect, Frank Gehry. Local restaurant
critics praise its expensive Nuevo Mexicano cuisine (lobster
tacos, crab enchiladas, duck rellenos), but, as the owner
complains, no one really comes for the food.
   We come to stare at the decor, and at each other. The open
stainless steel kitchen, crowded with sweating cooks, and the
marble-paneled ceviche bar are contained in two little
free-standing houses. A shiny pavilion of pure copper rises
in one corner on the booze bar. A row of fat telephone pole
columns sprouting branches pretends to hold up the roof.
Ducts are, of course, exposed, stairs are industrial metal.
The decorations include two giant plastic black alligators
and a ruby-and-gold octopus hanging from the ceiling, a long,
long sparkly painting on black velvet, a quilted metal door,
and roll-back aqua booths.
   Elizabeth Taylor uses Booth 1, I was told, but the night I
was there no stars were in sight. All the women in the
jam-packed bar looked like that Medusa-haired brunette in the
convertible at Malibu, all the men like GQ '90s versions of
Edward Albee's "American Dream." None of them smiled. The
Venice regulars make one feel very old.
   ---
   Mr. Littlejohn is a novelist, critic and professor of
journalism at the University of California, Berkeley.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financial Center Bancorp Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   FCTB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Financial Center Bancorp's sole
subsidiary acquired deposit liabilities and selected assets
of three branches of Cabrillo Federal Savings Bank from the
Resolution Trust Corp., a federal agency acting as receiver
of Cabrillo, a thrift.
   Cabrillo's branches, located in northern California, carry
a total of $38 million in deposits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   EC Unemployment Declines
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Seasonally adjusted unemployment of the 12
European Community members was an average 8.5% in March, down
from 8.6% in February and 9.4% a year earlier.
   Seasonally adjusted March unemployment was highest in
Ireland at 16.3%, followed by Spain at 16.1% and Italy at
10.8%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unemployment was lowest in Luxembourg at 1.6%, followed by
Portugal at 5.1% and West Germany at 5.2%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   British Producer Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- British producer output prices, or prices of
manufactured goods, rose 1% in April from March, while
producer input prices, or prices of raw materials and fuels
purchased by manufacturing industry, fell an unadjusted 0.3%,
Britain's Central Statistical Office reported.
   The statistical office also said output prices in April
were up 6.1% from a year earlier, the highest year-to-year
rise since a jump of 6.3% in December 1982.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   MCD POM
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   AICorp., an initial offering of 2.25 million common
shares, 1.5 million will be sold by the company, 750,000 by
holders, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc. and Donaldson, Lufkin &amp;
Jenrette Securities Corp.
                                                                                                       

   McDonald's Corp., shelf offering of up to $300 million of
debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Potomac Electric Power Co., offering of $50 million of
serial preferred stock, auction series A, via Goldman, Sachs
&amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fab Industries' Poison Pill
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FIT
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Fab Industries Inc., a manufacturer of knitted
textile fabrics and other products, adopted a poison pill --
a measure designed to make hostile takeovers prohibitively
expensive.
   The company will issue rights to shareholders of record
June 6. Under certain takeover circumstances, the rights
would entitle the holders to buy shares of Fab or its buyer
at half the market price.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move isn't a response to any specific takeover effort,
Fab said. At March 22, Fab had 3.3 million shares
outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Compaq Sets Bond Redemption
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CPQ
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Compaq Computer Corp. said it will redeem its
$200 million outstanding of 6 1/2% convertible subordinated
debentures due May 1, 2013, on June 13, for $1,059.58 per
$1,000 face amount, including $7.58 in accrued interest.
   The computer concern said that holders can convert the
debentures into stock at a price of $65 a share, or 15.38
shares per $1,000 face amount until June 13. If all the
debentures are converted, Compaq would issue approximately
3.1 million new common shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company had about 39.3 million common shares
outstanding at Dec. 31.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Compaq closed at $112.375, up $2.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   News Corp. Sells TV Station
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS BOS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Fox Television Stations Inc. said it
completed the sale of Boston TV station WFXT to a limited
partnership of the Boston Celtics basketball team. Terms
weren't disclosed.
   The sale was required under a divestiture order by the
Federal Communications Commission, Fox Television said. FCC
rules prohibit a company from owning a television station and
newspaper in the same market. Rupert Murdoch's Sydney,
Australia-based News Corp., owns Fox Television and the
Boston Herald newspaper.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Perversity of Campaign Reform
   ----
   By Roy A. Schotland
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Campaign reform is on the floor of Congress this week. The
Senate majority leadership is proposing a package deal:
limits on the amount of money candidates for Congress may
spend, and public financing of the expenditures candidates
are permitted.
   It all sounds very fair, but in fact, the legislation
grossly favors incumbents -- even more so since Sens. Tim
Wirth (D., Colo.), Tom Daschle (D., S.D.) and Max Baucus (D.,
Mont.), among others, pressured the leadership into fiddling
with the reform's rules over the past few weeks. As well as
the unfortunate intended effects, the bill will have
unfortunate unintended effects -- effects that are bound to
hurt almost every state, in one election or another.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Spending ceilings are among the most enduringly popular of
campaign reform proposals. In 1974, Congress enacted ceilings
for both presidential and congressional campaigns. The
constitutionality of the statute was challenged, and the
Supreme Court held, in a 1976 case, Buckley v. Valeo, that
while statutory limits on individual contributions to
campaigns are constitutional, limits on spending are not. The
court did, however, permit Congress to require candidates to
comply with spending limits as a condition of public funding
for their campaigns. As a result, presidential candidates --
who are eligible for public funding -- are generally subject
to spending limits, but congressional candidates are not.
   Whatever the consequence of spending limits for
presidential races, congressional elections would become not
more competitive, but less. The more competitive the race,
the more likely it will involve high spending.
   Between 1982 and 1988, there were 30 highly competitive
(6% margin or closer) Senate races and 65 landslides (20%
margin or greater). In the 30 highly competitive races, more
than 60% of the candidates spent more than the various
proposals for campaign reform now before Congress would
permit -- even before adjusting for inflation. But in the
landslides, only 15% of the candidates involved spent more
than the proposals before Congress would permit. The proposed
limits -- which would come into effect in time for the 1992
elections -- would therefore have made little or no
difference in the uncompetitive races, but would have had a
substantial impact on the others.
   Spending limits would alter the balance of power in the
Senate between those states that happened to have competitive
elections in any particular year and states that didn't.
Incumbents in competitive states would be held back from
taking advantage of their great fund-raising edge, while
their challengers would have sufficient public funds to mount
strong races. Those states would probably see unprecedentedly
high turnover of senators, who would accordingly build little
seniority. This would cost their states bargaining power in
Congress. In contrast, uncompetitive states' incumbents, with
their spending untouched by the law would continue to drown
challengers.
   Does anyone want to increase the rewards to one-party
states? Does anyone want another manipulable tool in
incumbents' hands to foil challengers, in the House as well
as the Senate? Of the 12 challengers who beat incumbent
senators between 1982 and 1988, 10 spent more than
now-proposed limits, often between two and six times as much.
   Spending limits would have another perverse impact: They
would ensure that state population size would, for the first
time as a matter of law, affect the outcome of Senate races.
So far, every formula proposed for setting spending limits
state by state has treated population as the only variable
differentiating the cost of politics in one state from
another. But some states have lively general elections,
others only lively primaries; some have expensive media,
others not; and so on. The spending ceilings proposed in
1977, the first time Congress tried seriously to enact them,
were so high in the biggest states that Senate races there
would have been untouched by the law. In contrast, in the 26
smaller states, severe reductions in spending would have been
required.
   This is not to say flatly that spending ceilings cannot
work: the -- now discarded -- March report by the advisory
panel on campaign finance named by Senate Majority Leader
George Mitchell and Minority Leader Robert Dole, called for
"flexible" ceilings. That report is the first even
quasi-official recognition that by imposing ceilings, we
raise "valid practical considerations of whether certain
categories of candidates (challengers v. incumbents), parties
(Republican v. Democratic) or campaigns (large state v. small
state) would be advantaged or disadvantaged"; further, that
the formula for ceilings "need{s} to reflect the
disproportionate costs of running in less populated state and
in those states which require advertising in adjacent state's
media markets."
   But I do say that Buckley was right in putting red flags
in front of spending ceilings. First, they're horrendously
hard to set fairly and flexibly enough, as indicated above.
Second, given that difficulty, it is especially significant
that if we have ceilings, they will be set not by a troop of
Eagle Scouts, but by incumbents who will pick the formula and
the level of the limits, and render themselves even more
invulnerable at the same time they claim applause for
"reform." As Sen. Joe Biden (D., Del.), a backer of campaign
reform, says, this "appears very hypocritical."
   ---
   Mr. Schotland is a professor at Georgetown University Law
Center, in Washington, D.C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Edison Bros. to Buy Sega Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   J.SEL EBS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS, Mo. -- Edison Brothers Stores Inc. said it
agreed to acquire the Time-Out unit of Japan's Sega
Enterprises Ltd.
   The retailer didn't disclose terms of the pact, which it
said will expand its Edison Brothers Entertainment division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Time-Out, a U.S. division of Sega, operates 88 game rooms
and family entertainment centers in shopping malls.
Time-Out's 1989 sales were about $33 million, Edison Brothers
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Semiconductor Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   NSM
</CO>
<LP>
   SANTA CLARA, Calif. -- National Semiconductor Corp. said
it invested in Wafer-Scale Integration, a memory-chip
supplier in Fremont, Calif.
   National also said it agreed to a manufacturing and
technology exchange with Wafer-Scale for five years. As part
of the deal, National, one of the largest semiconductor
suppliers in the U.S., will manufacture and market some of
Wafer-Scale's chips.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   National didn't disclose the size of its investment in
Wafer-Scale.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Valhi Acquires Rest of Sybra
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VHI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Valhi Inc., a holding company controlled by the
investor Harold Simmons, said it completed the purchase of
the 3% of Sybra Inc. that it didn't already own in a stock
swap. Sybra, which is Arby's spelled backwards, is an
Atlanta-based Arby's fast-food franchise.
   Valhi said holders of 79,292 Sybra common shares received
1.6 Valhi shares for each Sybra share owned. Holders of
options to buy 87,820 Sybra shares will receive 1.6 Valhi
common shares when those options are exercised, Valhi said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business World:
   A Maverick Airline Decides to Play a Political Card
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A25
</SO>
<CO>
   AWAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TEMPE, Ariz. -- The by-the-bootstraps culture of America
West Airlines, which boasts of being one of two surviving
start-ups from its industry's deregulation, is in partial
abeyance lest its competitors get a leg up.
   That's one spin on what the 45-year-old president and
chief operating officer, Michael Conway, says about the
carrier's efforts to get local government to build it a
maintenance and technical facility with office space and
parking at Sky Harbor airport near Phoenix. Although the
airline's original proposal has been reduced by more than
half, a $50 million publicly assisted project would still be
significant not only for a company with a reputation for
independence, but as the latest leap nationally into an area
of airport construction previously left to the private
sector.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Conway isn't shy about what he expects from the city
of Phoenix. He says his airline brings not only its own jobs
-- 8,000 in offices here and the airport already, plus 2,000
linked to this expansion -- but has a big "multiplier" effect
by opening up the area to more commercial connections. Thus
the magic words "economic development" come into play as a
basis for government action.
   America West claims to be among only a handful of U.S.
businesses that have zoomed to billion-dollar size in under a
decade. From its hubs here and in Las Vegas, it flies to 60
U.S. cities, including Honolulu. It hopes soon to connect
from Hawaii to East Asia. Eventually, Mr. Conway says,
Phoenix can be a "gateway" comparable to Atlanta. His company
has ordered $3 billion of fleet and parts; that and its
opening of a larger terminal at Sky Harbor later this year
explain the pressing need for the support facility, he says.
The carrier's debt load, though lessening, remains high for
the industry and explains why it wants the government to
carry the building.
   "What America West is trying to do is to keep this off
their balance sheet," says Kevin Keogh, the Phoenix finance
director. That would mean putting it on a local authority's
books, with a sales tax or some other levy serving as a
backup should the airline not make the lease payments
designed to cover the notes. And for Phoenix, in the midst of
a $1 billion road and waterworks financing and beset by a
number of public-works controversies, that may be more than
the credit markets can bear.
   So the sides represented by Messrs. Conway and Keogh, both
blunt ex-New Yorkers, are having some rough negotiations.
Both men express optimism and a desire to avoid a row, but
the edginess is palpable.
   "We have to do something here in a way that makes sense
economically," says Mr. Conway. "And if we're unable to do it
here, then by definition we'll do it somewhere else. I just
hope it doesn't come to that." He says America West is
"listening to" but not seeking out other municipal offers.
The decision looms as the airline also weighs buying other
"franchises" -- routes and possibly hubs of weaker sisters.
   "I think we have to try to get something from these people
that makes us not at a competitive disadvantage with other
carriers that are getting a better deal from other cities,"
Mr. Conway says. Although provision of non-terminal
facilities remains the exception, the practice is spreading.
Two major examples: Continental Airlines is getting a
maintenance hangar at the new Denver airport, and United
Airlines is considering 20 localities' proposals for help
building a 6,000-employee upkeep structure east of the
Rockies.
   But more than that, what gripes Mr. Conway is the lock
some competitors have elsewhere on gates and profitable
routes. Particularly, his ire is directed at Southwest
Airlines' dominance of close-in Love Field in Dallas, which
he says permits that carrier big profits on those flights so
it can engage in "predatory" price-cutting in markets where
it competes with America West, which matches the fares. Mr.
Conway says the Southwest "windfall" in Dallas stems from
legislation that restricted Love Field gates to carriers that
don't connect baggage and tickets with other airlines --
i.e., Southwest.
   It's a familiar trade story: A company impeded somewhere
by some law or practice asks for a boost at home so as to
"level the playing field." Jobs are at stake. Add to that the
fact that a primary airline can appear to be a community's
lifeline, and you see the makings of a pet industry. Mr.
Conway spots a model: "There are tons of examples of what
cities have done for sports teams, which really makes you
wonder. Who do you think has done more for the city of
Atlanta, the Falcons or Delta Airlines?"
   Public subsidy of targeted economic development -- be it
as trivial a form as boosterism or as fundamental as credit
allocation via finance breaks -- is an issue on which even
many of America's most competitive business people stub their
free-market toes. And, as Mr. Conway points out, you could
hardly ask for a more entrepreneurial, dynamic enterprise
than America West. Chairman Edward Beauvais founded it in
1981 after a career in airline management and consulting. His
cohesive executive group has combined aggressiveness with a
casual style; the nonunion company encourages stock ownership
and initiative by employees. Most salaries are modest, but
worker concerns figure in such benefits as an expansive
child-care program.
   Now that ethos -- one emphasizing "do it yourself" even to
the level of bottled water a group of employees might decide
to order and pay for -- is in awkward juxtaposition.
Nationally, the airline (like the other survivor, Midway) is
still an upstart, even an underdog. But regionally it has
become one of the top 10 private employers, wielding clout
and asking favors. City officials, looking at another big
borrowing, worry about the future of America West in a
volatile industry and about Phoenix's own financial health
after a recent round of what Mr. Keogh, the finance director,
calls "strong reservations" expressed by bond-rating
agencies. Although the area's economy is picking up, it has
been wracked by thrift, bank and real-estate busts.
   What if the America West deal does go through? Won't other
local businesses get the idea they deserve similar help? Mr.
Keogh says if they have headquarters here and a project
involving 2,000 or 3,000 jobs, they'd be considered.
   Mr. Conway says that if some other company made as much of
a contribution to the area -- or as he likes to put it in
deal-speak, "if they put as much on the table and brought as
much to the party" -- they could get theirs. Size talks in
the big, bad world out there, and public policy-making is no
different, he believes.
   "What is the role of government and business?" he asks
rhetorically. "How proactive should they be? You could take
that argument right up to the point of, Should the U.S.
government bail Chrysler out? If you become big enough and
critical enough, you will get assistance that you would never
get if you weren't that size. It happens all the time."
   Yes, it does.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Symantec to Buy
   Peter Norton,
   Software Concern
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   SYMC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Symantec Corp., a maker of software for personal
computers, said it agreed to buy Peter Norton Computing Inc.,
a closely held software concern, for about $70 million in
stock.
   The accord is evidence that smaller software firms,
concerned over the possibility of two behemoths -- Lotus
Development Corp. and Microsoft Corp. -- dominating the
industry, are eagerly looking for acquisitions. Historically,
the business of supplying software for personal computers has
been a haven for smaller companies. Acquisitions generally
have been avoided out of a fear that they might disrupt the
sensitive process of software development.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Symantec, of Cupertino, Calif., said shareholders of Peter
Norton Computing will receive 2.9 million shares of Symantec
common. The combined company will be the leading supplier of
a category of software called utilities, which users of
personal computers frequently buy to improve the basic
operation of their machines.
   Analysts said the accord was a surprise because Peter
Norton, of Santa Monica, Calif., until recently had been
preparing to file for an initial public stock offering of its
own. But they said that the rapid growth of Microsoft, the
biggest supplier of PC software, and last month's move by
Lotus Development to purchase Novell Inc. for $1.5 billion,
have many software companies worried that they may not
possess the size to compete effectively.
   "There's a drive towards consolidation for that very
reason," said David Readerman, an analyst at Shearson Lehman
Hutton.
   Regarding Peter Norton's preparations for an initial
public stock offering, Ron Posner, chief executive officer,
said the company even had told Salomon Brothers it would
serve as one of the underwriters.
   But Mr. Posner thinks it unlikely the offering would have
reaped more than Symantec's offer, which he describes as "the
upper end of the scale." And had the company remained
independent, he said, it needed to build a national sales
force, a costly process.
   Mr. Posner said the tie with a bigger company -- Symantec
had $50 million in sales in its fiscal year ended March 31,
twice the amount of Peter Norton -- is an important benefit
of the merger, though he said it wasn't the prime motivation
for the deal. Citing recent consolidation among distributors
of software, Mr. Posner said "getting attention at those
places takes more size than it used to."
   Symantec shares closed yesterday at $22.50, up $1, in
national over-the-counter trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM Unit Gets Air Force Job
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GMH UIS PN
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Hughes Aircraft Co., a unit of General
Motors Corp., was given a $77 million Air Force contract to
build a North Atlantic Treaty Organization air defense system
for Iceland.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unisys Corp. won a $25.8 million Navy contract for
submarine navigation equipment.
                                                                                                       

   Pan Am World Services Inc., a unit of Pan Am Corp.,
received a $12.6 million Air Force contract for support of
the Eastern Space and Missile Center.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big O Tires Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BIGO LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   ENGLEWOOD, Colo. -- Big O Tires Inc. said its directors
authorized it to borrow as much as $5 million so that its
employee stock ownership plan can purchase more of the
company's shares.
   The company said the approval doubles the board's previous
authorization of $2.5 million; however, the company hasn't
yet obtained a loan for the ESOP.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The owner and franchiser of tire stores said the loan may
be used to buy stock on the open market, or from the company.
The ESOP already owns 826,843 Big O shares, or about 4.7% of
the company's stock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Firm to Buy
   Air &amp; Water Shares
   In Private Placement
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   AWT F.CEA
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRANCHBURG, N.J. -- Air &amp; Water Technologies Corp., an
environmental services concern, said Cie. Generale des Eaux
of France agreed to purchase $100 million of Air &amp; Water's
Class A common stock in a private placement outside the U.S.
   Sale of the stock to Generale des Eaux, a group of water,
power, heating and maintenance companies based in Paris,
would be made concurrently with the completion of a
contemplated public offering by Air &amp; Water. The
private-placement agreement provides that the purchase price
per share will be equal to 108.33% of the share price in Air
&amp; Water's public offering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Either party may terminate the agreement if Air &amp; Water
doesn't receive by June 4 proceeds of at least $130 million
from the sale of securities in the public offering, including
the sale of at least two million Air &amp; Water Class A common
shares.
   The agreement will allow Air &amp; Water access to markets of
Generale des Eaux in Europe and the Far East, and, in turn,
let Air &amp; Water work with the big French service concern in
the U.S. for products and services that don't compete.
   Air &amp; Water has 16 million common shares outstanding,
excluding the planned private placement and the public
offering. The number of shares to be issued would depend on
the selling price, which hasn't been determined.
   After the announcement of the private equity purchase,
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it raised its ratings on Air &amp;
Water's $150 million of convertible subordinated debentures,
due 2015, currently being marketed, to single-B-plus from
single-B; senior debt to double-B from double-B-minus; and
subordinated debt to single-B-plus from single-B, affecting
$250 million of debt. Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it
raised its ratings on Air &amp; Water's senior debt to Ba-2 from
Ba-3 and subordinated debt to single-B-1 from single-B-2,
including Air &amp; Water's convertible subordinated debentures.
   Air &amp; Water Class A shares closed at $25.75, up $1.25, in
American Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NASA Awards
   Lockheed Unit
   $971 Million Job
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR LK GY WTI MDR TKC
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   SUNNYVALE, Calif. -- Lockheed Corp.'s Lockheed Missiles &amp;
Space Co. subsidiary said it received a $971 million contract
from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to
oversee design and development of a new generation of rocket
motors for the space shuttle.
   Under terms of the five-year contract, Lockheed Missiles
is the prime contractor and systems engineer for development
of 20 advanced, solid rocket motors for use in the space
agency's shuttle launches beginning in 1995.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The motors will be built at a plant to be constructed on
1,100 acres of federal land near Iuka, Miss., close to the
Tennessee and Alabama borders. GenCorp Inc.'s Aerojet General
Corp. subsidiary, Folsom, Calif., will produce the motors.
Wheelabrator Technologies Inc.'s RUST International Corp.
subsidiary, based in Birmingham, Ala., will manage the plant
construction.
   Of the $971 million award, Lockheed will receive "a little
more than a quarter and two-thirds go to Aerojet," said a
Lockheed spokesman. The balance will be paid to various
subcontractors.
   If NASA exercised an option for production of up to 88
additional motors in the mid-1990s, the contract's value
could rise by as much as $1.39 billion, Lockheed said.
   Aerojet's portion will be split with subcontractors,
including Babcock &amp; Wilcox, a New Orleans unit of McDermott
International Inc. and Thiokol Corp., Brigham City, Utah.
Aerojet will employ up to 1,000 people and Lockheed will
employ about 70 at the site, Lockheed said.
   The proposed rocket motors will have a lift capability of
65,000 pounds of payload, about 12,000 pounds more than the
existing motors, which were refurbished after the Challenger
explosion four years ago. Besides being more powerful, the
new motors will be safer, mainly because there are fewer
joints.
   Separately, about 900 machinists union members at
Lockheed's aircraft service unit in Ontario, Calif., voted to
accept the company's latest employment contract offer. The
settlement ends a nine-week strike by machinists at that
location.
   Under the contract terms, machinists will receive a 5%
bonus plus $2,000 in the first year; in the second and third
years, top-grade hourly employees will receive a 3% wage
increase and 2% bonus, with all others receiving a 5% bonus.
The agreement also contains cost-of-living allowances over
the three years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medicine:
   Competitors' Drugs Battle Septic Shock
   ----
   By Richard Koenig
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CNTO XOMA PFE CTUS G.BAY CHIR
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   The alarming signs appear in U.S. hospitals hundreds of
thousands of times every year. Patients show symptoms,
perhaps a fever and a drop in blood pressure, that signal a
gram-negative infection. If their condition worsens, the next
stages can follow in days: septic shock, organ failure and
death.
   After decades of refining the standard treatments for such
infections, doctors had begun to despair of cutting the death
toll much more. But now there is talk of a breakthrough,
possibly the next big products out of biotechnology.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Two competitors, Centocor Inc. and Xoma Corp., are seeking
clearance from the Food and Drug Administration for an
entirely new sort of anti-infection drug, whetting keen
interest in medical and financial circles alike.
   "This could be a huge product" category, says David
Webber, a biotechnology analyst at Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc.,
Xoma's lead investment banker. "This has the potential to
save more lives than TPA," the flagship product of biotech
leader Genentech Inc.
   To be sure, only selected results from trials of the drugs
have been made public to date. Doctors and analysts want to
see more, starting with published reports in peer-reviewed
medical journals. Even if the drugs fulfill their promise,
questions will remain about how soon after the onset of
infection the drugs should be given.
   "Data from both Centocor and Xoma are very exciting. I
just think we don't want to go overboard" in raising
expectations for the drugs, says Harvey Rubin, an
infectious-disease specialist at the University of
Pennsylvania who worked on the trial of Centocor's drug.
   The latest disclosure came at a medical conference where
Elizabeth Ziegler, a researcher at the University of
California at San Diego, reported on some of her group's
findings with Centocor's drug, Centoxin. One striking result:
Over the first 28 days of the trial, the drug cut the death
rate by 51% for severely ill patients suffering from septic
shock, which is characterized by a sharp fall in blood
pressure, and failure of the lungs, kidneys or liver.
   "You could possibly fill Yankee Stadium with the people
whose lives will be saved each year," says Centocor's
president, James Wavle. It might even be an overflow crowd at
the stadium, which has a capacity of 55,000.
   By some estimates, there are about 200,000 cases a year in
the U.S. of gram-negative sepsis, the stage of the disease
when the infection begins to cause disturbing symptoms and
doctors might start using the new drugs. Some 80,000 of those
cases are estimated to be fatal. The toll in Europe, where
Centocor and Xoma have marketing plans as well, is thought to
be about as heavy. Since the death rate of patients who got
Centoxin fell 43% by the end of hospitalization, roughly
69,000 lives could be saved a year in the U.S. and Europe.
   The infection-causing bacteria, called gram-negative
because they don't hold the dye in a laboratory staining
technique, grow benignly in the intestine. But they can
become deadly if they enter the bloodstream or other tissue
through burns, abdominal wounds, surgery or contaminated
catheters.
   The new drugs, unlike antibiotics that act upon the
bacteria, latch on to toxins made by the bacteria, thus
blocking the next biochemical step in the disease process.
Both drugs are monoclonal antibodies, proteins that zero in
on selected targets in the body. Centoxin is derived from
human spleen cells; Xoma's drug, called Xomen E-5, from mouse
spleen cells.
   For Centocor, based in Malvern, Pa., and Xoma, based in
Berkeley, Calif., the drugs could be company-making products.
Neither sells a therapeutic product of any kind today. Each
could vault into the top ranks of the biotech industry on the
strength of its anti-infection drug alone. Some estimates
from Wall Street put the combined U.S. and European sales for
both drugs at $750 million by the mid-1990s.
   One reason for the jumbo market projections is sky-high
prices for drugs produced by biotechnology. Centoxin and
Xomen-E5 both are expected to cost between $1,500 and $2,500
for a single course of treatment, given by injection.
   Another reason is the likelihood that the drug will be
overprescribed, since symptoms of gram-negative sepsis can
mimic those of other types of infections. The lab tests
needed to confirm the initial diagnosis can take a couple of
days, and a patient's condition may deteriorate in the
meantime. As a result, doctors would tend to use the drugs
early and worry about perfecting the diagnosis later -- at
least until faster tests became available.
   A suggestion of how often the drugs may be used on
patients for whom they aren't designed can be gleaned from
the Centoxin trial. Of 543 patients given the drug because
they appeared to have symptoms of gram-negative sepsis, only
317 were proven by the lab work to have had gram-negative
infections.
   "Even economically, it seems to make sense" to use the
drugs early, says Roger Bone, a researcher on intensive-care
costs at Rush-Presbyterian St. Luke's Medical Center in
Chicago. Dr. Bone says that by keeping patients from becoming
deathly ill, the drugs would prevent stays in intensive-care
units that run up costs of several hundred thousand dollars.
   With such a large market at stake, the two companies are
already taking swipes at each other. Centocor is hoping to
build an early case that it has the more powerful drug, since
Xomen E-5 in its first trial didn't show effectiveness in
cases of septic shock with organ failure. Xoma President
Patrick Scannon, asserting that Centocor is "data-dredging,"
replies by noting the companies' trials differed in the sort
of patients evaluated in shock cases.
   Xoma, which has reported that its drug was effective in
patients who weren't in shock, raises questions about the
potency of Centoxin in that group, for which Centocor hasn't
yet broken out numbers. To this, Centocor's research chief,
Harvey Berger, retorts, "They're just trying to find holes in
data that's rock solid."
   The battle of words between Centocor and Xoma is a preview
of the fight ahead if their drugs get marketing clearance
from the FDA. Centocor vows to market Centoxin by itself, in
contrast to its practice of licensing its diagnostic products
to giant health-care concerns. The gain for the company will
be enormous if the drug wins acceptance, because all the
profit will be Centocor's.
   The risk for Centocor is enormous, too. The company
expects initially to have no more than 75 salespeople in the
U.S. Xoma has licensed Xomen E-5 to Pfizer Inc., and so will
have a force of 750 behind its product. Xoma also beat
Centocor by six months in applying to the FDA.
   Already the contest has entered the courtroom, with Xoma
filing a patent-infringement suit against Centocor in federal
court in San Francisco last month. Other companies are
looking to join the fray, too.
   Cetus Corp. has an antibody against gram-negative toxins
in early clinical trials, and Bayer AG has licensed from
Chiron Corp. an antibody aimed not at the toxins but at
harmful substances produced by the body in response to them.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Slim Pickings:
   U.S. Food Firms Find
   Europe's Huge Market
   Hardly a Piece of Cake
   ---
   They Run Into Protectionism,
   Varied National Tastes;
   Some Kill Expansion Plans
   ---
   Avoiding the Dieting Stigma
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Shopping at a suburban supermarket here, amid
the low-calorie frozen dinners, Sioned Jones sees one brand
she's inclined to pass by. "There's more of a stigma attached
to Weight Watchers," says the 25-year-old computer
programmer. She says buying the product, from America's H.J.
Heinz Co., "means you're on a diet."
   Losing weight appears to interest Britons and Continental
Europeans less than it does Americans. Ms. Jones thinks a
name like Healthy Options, a line from Britain's Unilever
Group, doesn't carry the same connotation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But nearby, Edna MacLeod ignores both contenders and picks
out four packages of Lean Cuisine, made by Nestle S.A. of
Switzerland. "We British stick with what we like," the
white-haired secretary says.
   Pittsburgh-based Heinz, which wants to become a bigger
force in post-1992 Europe, is finding that its Weight
Watchers dishes face a costly battle in Britain. And among
Americans trying to move into the European food market,
Heinz's problems aren't unusual.
   Many U.S. food companies are having a
harder-than-anticipated struggle to raise their bit-player
status in the European Community's integrated market.
"Everybody is still looking at {1992} as an interesting
opportunity," says Charles Ludolph, who directs the U.S.
Commerce Department's Office of EC Affairs. But "realism is
certainly sinking in."
   While hungrily eyeing the Continent's $550 billion food
industry, the Americans had underestimated the competitive
clout of European food giants, the difficulty of making major
acquisitions, and the lingering diversity of 320 million
Western Europeans -- with their nine languages and
distinctive national eating habits.
   Though U.S. companies still show much enthusiasm,
amplified by the prospect of new markets in Eastern Europe,
some of their fears of a discriminatory "Fortress Europe"
seem justified. In the food industry, protectionist
regulations linger on despite the generally falling trade
barriers. Italy, for example, allows only products made from
durum wheat -- not surprisingly, Italy's predominant type --
to be called pasta, even though spaghetti, macaroni and the
like can be made from many varieties of wheat.
   And, for whatever reason, regulations vary in perplexing
ways from one country to another. France won't let Coca-Cola
use aspartame (Nutra-Sweet) as an artificial sweetener in
Diet Coke. Britain and Ireland let cookie makers add chlorine
to their flour in certain products -- something no other EC
country allows. And Italy has Europe's tightest restrictions
on additives in bubblegum -- a maximum of 20 -- while some
other European countries allow up to 67 of them.
   Quaker Oats Co. ran into protectionism while trying to
make Gatorade a pan-European product. After a three-year
struggle before the sports drink rang up respectable annual
sales of $40 million in Italy (its initial market), the
Gatorade launch in France last month ran afoul of rules about
health beverages; the Chicago company had to add extra
vitamin B1.
   National tastes introduce more complications. Italians
dislike a grapefruit-flavored Gatorade, for instance, but
West Germans like it.
   Europe's high price and slow payoff are inducing some
Americans to lower their sights. Two major U.S. food
producers recently dropped plans to try to expand modest
European operations into $1 billion-a-year-plus businesses,
and instead are getting rid of them, says Ian Davis, a
London-based partner for U.S. consultants McKinsey &amp; Co. (He
won't name the companies.) Others "have been very
disappointed by the difficulties in growing the businesses
significantly," he adds.
   Certainly that's true for Campbell Soup Co. Analysts say
Campbell expanded too fast in Europe and overpaid -- $201
million, or 24 times earnings -- for Freshbake Foods PLC, a
British frozen-foods producer with little brand recognition
and a third-place market share. Despite two years of
management shuffles and the shutdown of four of Freshbake's
eight plants, the British operations remain a drag on
earnings.
   Although rivals contend that Campbell would like to
jettison its move into British frozen foods, Campbell's own
executives say they still view Freshbake as their crucial
entry into Europe's #9 billion frozen-food industry. But they
admit progress has been slow. "It's easy to figure out what
to do and very painful to do it," says R. Edward Glover, the
president of the U.S. soup maker's European operation.
   Campbell's travails won't deter Heinz, however. Heinz
believes that U.K. sales of frozen entrees, spurred by the
spread of working women and microwave ovens, may hit #1
billion a year by 1992. Heinz plunged into Britain's
frozen-food industry mostly to move beyond its slow-growing
beans and ketchup business, largely in Britain, and to create
a big European splash with Weight Watchers. Also inspiring
both Heinz and Unilever to push into Britain -- and setting
off the current #20 million marketing battle here -- was
Nestle's success with Lean Cuisine.
   The Swiss company inaugurated Lean Cuisine in the U.S. in
1981 after almost $10 million and a decade of development.
Transferred to Britain in 1985, Lean Cuisine turned
profitable after two years -- with the aid of an altered
promotional strategy. In Britain, Nestle touts Lean Cuisine
as a tasty Yuppie food while offering free 14-day menu plans
to shed pounds. In the U.S., in contrast, Nestle's
advertising pushes weight control much harder.
   Nevertheless, Weight Watchers commercials in Britain
emphasize dieting. In one ad, a close-up camera pans slowly
past succulent vegetables while a sultry female voice
intones: "Believe it or not, you've just been watching the
calories." A #4.2 million Heinz ad blitz drew growth from
Lean Cuisine last year, Nestle concedes, and Lean Cuisine
sales fell short of their #50 million target -- after
tripling to #45 million between 1985 and 1988.
   But Heinz's triumph didn't last long. Unilever, crafting a
Lean Cuisine lookalike, decided instead on a product with
bigger portions and wider appeal. Healthy Options appeared
last fall, backed by an #8 million campaign in which Unilever
plugs the meals as low-fat fare for "healthy eaters" and
hides the calorie count on the back of the package. The
Anglo-Dutch giant figures that only 10% of its customers are
slimmers, compared with 50% of Nestle's and two-thirds of
Heinz's.
   And unlike Heinz, Unilever enjoys considerable clout among
British grocers as leader of the frozen-food industry.
Gateway Foodmarkets, for example, decided to carry Healthy
Options in all 730 supermarkets after Unilever promised
exceptionally high profit margins. The chain initially
carried frozen Weight Watcher meals only in its larger
stores.
   Heinz executives insist that Healthy Options isn't hurting
their sales. Just to make sure, Heinz is giving away a can of
baked beans with every frozen dinner. Officials also deny
seeking to export Americans' obsession with weight. Weight
Watchers "is seen as a mainstream product" rather than a dish
for dieters, contends Bruce Purgavie, deputy managing
director of Heinz's U.K. arm. "We cater to the vast majority
of {British} women who are interested in weight control."
   But market researchers say Healthy Options is starting to
damp the growth of both Weight Watchers and Lean Cuisine in a
rapidly expanding market. Weight Watchers may end up with the
smallest niche, some analysts contend, because of its name
and its rivals' greater marketing muscle. Heinz should
embrace a broader thrust such as Unilever's "healthy eating"
drive, says John Campbell, an analyst at U.K. brokers County
NatWest WoodMac.
   Other U.S. food companies have found that, to convert
Europeans to American eating habits, they must spend years
wooing them. Although Coca-Cola Co. has been in France for 70
years, longer than anywhere else in Europe, the French still
drink much less Coke than their neighbors do. So Coca-Cola
recently spent $250 million to buy the leading Coke franchise
from Pernod Ricard S.A., a French spirits company, and to
build plants in France. Another example: The French still
don't drink American-style instant coffee the way Britons do.
   However, U.S. food makers can carve out niches in Europe
by exporting a strong national brand to countries where local
tastes are broadening. IC Industries Inc.'s Old El Paso unit,
the Mexican-food leader in the U.S., expects the total
Mexican food market will reach #16 million this year in
Britain alone. But who eats the spicy fare the most?
Norwegians]
   Some U.S. food companies are trying to tailor their
products to national preferences. Philip Morris Cos.' Kraft
already varies its cheese slices by national market --
offering cheddar to Britons, mozzarella to Italians and Swiss
to the Swiss. Now it's trying to figure out whether -- and
how -- to introduce a U.S. cheese spread in Europe.
   But for some American companies, a push into Europe isn't
worth the effort. General Mills Inc. dropped plans to bring
Hamburger Helper to France and Britain "because we don't
think local consumption habits will change" soon, says Arthur
Schulze, vice chairman. Over the years, American peanut
butter, Pop Tarts, certain cake mixes, Dr Pepper soda, and
chocolate candy (except for Mars Inc. products) have come to
Europe but never really caught on.
   Many Europeans think Hershey Foods Corp. candy bars, for
example, taste bitter. And "a lot of Hershey products have
peanuts in them. Europeans view peanuts as something you feed
horses," says John McMillin, a food-industry analyst at
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. in New York. But Hershey, an
official hints, doesn't plan to change the products it
exports.
   Such a stand typifies the once-common attitude "that if it
sold well in America, it would carry well into Europe," says
Judith Lannon, European research and development director for
ad agency J. Walter Thompson. And even now, some U.S. food
producers, caught up in 1992 hype, still "think that once the
barriers go down, all Europeans will be the same," she adds.
   Sara Lee Corp., in its first major Continental foray,
began shipping British-made frozen pies and cakes to France a
year ago, without altering the recipes for French tastes. The
Chicago company offers a British version of cheesecake (with
black-currant topping) and an American one (with strawberry).
"We feel we have core products that are acceptable all over
the world" and customize only when necessary, explains Thomas
McLeod Jr., president of the Kitchens of Sara Lee division.
   Mars is putting an equally risky bet on how much
homogenization Europeans will swallow. The U.S. candy maker
has wanted to run pan-European ad campaigns for Snickers bars
since 1988, when Nestle became Europe's chocolate king by
buying confectioner Rowntree PLC. But Snickers lacked a
single Europe-wide name; in Britain, the candy was long sold
as "Marathon" to avoid association with "knickers," the
English word for women's underpants. Last month, Mars boldly
dumped the Marathon label in favor of Snickers.
   "What a decision, to get rid of a major brand name]"
exclaims Michael Walsh, the chairman of Ogilvy &amp; Mather ad
agency in London. Retorts a Mars spokesman: "The world has
moved on."
   Frito-Lay epitomizes the hurdles for U.S. food producers
scrambling to sell American-style products in Europe. After
buying a small Spanish snacks business in the early 1970s,
the PepsiCo Inc. subsidiary tried to wean Spaniards away from
olives and anchovies. "People said nobody in Spain would eat
Doritos because Doritos come from corn and corn is food for
pigs," recalls Michael Jordan, the president of PepsiCo's
global snack-food business. Eventually, Frito won over the
Spanish -- plus much of Southern Europe -- with a big sales
force and commercials that promoted the corn chips as
wholesome American fare, but the operation didn't turn
consistently profitable until the early 1980s.
   Frito won't conquer Northern Europe any more easily. Last
summer, in one of the Americans' few big food-industry
takeovers in 1989, Frito paid $1.35 billion -- nearly 30
times earnings -- for Britain's two leading snack makers. But
Frito hit a dead end after months of courting H. Bahlsens
Keksfabrik KG, a major West German maker of upscale cookies
and potato chips. So, instead of buying a German market
presence, Frito may ship snacks from Britain because 1992
"will make it easier to bring products from other countries,"
Mr. Jordan says. He adds that Frito is also considering
German joint ventures.
   Indeed, American-European alliances, which are multiplying
in industries such as cars, drugs and electronics, are
starting in foods. General Mills, discouraged about invading
Europe alone, forged a partnership with Nestle last December.
Nestle will use its enormous clout to stock European grocery
shelves with General Mills products such as Wheaties and
Cheerios. General Mills will need all the help Nestle can
offer. Outside Ireland and Britain, few Europeans eat cereal
at breakfast.
   "Nestle understands local countries {in Europe} very
well," General Mills's Mr. Schulze says, adding that he
expects more such American-European alliances. "We're not the
only company in the world that thinks speed is important."
   ---
                Food Markets and Habits
                                                                                                       

                   The Major Players
                                                                                                       

   1988 European food companies, ranked by sales, in billions
of dollars*
                                                                                                       

                                             1988 sales*
   COMPANY               NATIONALITY  In billions of dollars
                                                                                                       

   Nestle                    Swiss             $ 8.76
   Unilever          Britain/Neth.               5.98
   BSN                      French               3.46

   Hillsdown Holdings      Britain               2.56
   General Foods-Europe**  Britain               2.52
   Jacobs Suchard            Swiss               2.48
   Dalgety                 Britain               2.01
   Associated British Food Britain               1.88
   United Biscuits         Britain               1.88
                                                                                                       

   *Based on exchange rate of 12/30/88
   **Excludes acquisition of Kraft at end of 1988
                                                                                                       

   Source: UBS Philips and Drew Ltd.
   ---
                   Breakfast of Choice
                                                                                                       

       1988 per-capita cereal consumption, in pounds
                                                                                                       

   Ireland                            15.4
   Britain                            12.8
   Australia                          12.3
   U.S.                                9.8
   Canada                              8.7
   Denmark                             4.6
   West Germany                        2.0
   France                              1.1
   Spain                               0.4
                                                                                                       

   Source: Kellogg Co.
   ---
                  Where Convenience Rules
                                                                                                       

    1988 per-capita frozen-food consumption, in pounds
                                                                                                       

   U.S.                               92.4
   Denmark                            53.9
   Sweden                             51.7
   Britain                            48.2
   France                             40.5
   Norway                             38.3
   Netherlands                        34.8
   West Germany                       33.4
   Switzerland                        33.2
                                                                                                       

   Source: Birds Eye Wall's Ltd.
   ---
                       Fast Cooking
                                                                                                       

         Percent of homes with microwave ovens
                                                                                                       

   U.S.                               80%
   Britain                            43%
   West Germany                       21%
   European avg.                      19%
   France                             16%
   Spain                              13%
   Belgium                            10%
   Netherlands                         8%

                                                                                                       

   Sources: GE, Mintel Ltd.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Monday, May 14, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 5/16% high, 8 1/4% low, 8 3/16% near
closing bid, 8 1/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.125% 15 to 149 days; 8.05% 150 to 179
days; 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.20%
30 days; 8.20% 60 days; 8.19% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.77% one month; 7.81% two
months; 7.86% three months; 7.94% six months; 8.29% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.20% one month; 8.25% three months;
8.40% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.10% 30 days; 8.08% 60 days; 8.06%
90 days; 8.03% 120 days; 8.02% 150 days; 7.98% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% two months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% three months; 8
7/16% - 8 5/16% four months; 8 1/2% - 8 3/8% five months; 8
1/2% - 8 3/8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 3/8% three months; 8 1/2% six months; 8 3/4% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 12.25%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, May 14, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.67%, 13 weeks; 7.68%, 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.33%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.25%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.85%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.74%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Cray Research Rolls Out New Generation
   Of Supercomputers Aimed at Entry-Level
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CYR
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cray Research Inc., seeking to protect its dominance in
the supercomputer market, is introducing a new generation of
relatively inexpensive, entry-level machines.
   The machines will start at $2.2 million, a price that puts
them in competition with entry-level technology from Japanese
rival Fujitsu Ltd. as well as intensive-computing devices
from such domestic competitors as International Business
Machines Corp., based in Armonk, N.Y., and Convex Computer
Corp., based in Richardson, Texas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Called the Y-MP2E, the latest Cray supercomputers are a
downward extension of the company's primary line of Y-MPs
(for multiprocessor). Until now, the cheapest Y cost $5
million while the eight-processor version -- the world's
largest -- cost nearly $23 million.
   The new machines contain the same processing and memory
technology, and run at the same six nanosecond (billionths of
a second) cycle speed, as other members of the Y family. But
the small versions won't need the cumbersome cooling
"plumbing" its larger siblings require. Instead, they can be
either air-cooled or water-cooled, allowing them to fit into
current computer-room environments.
   Four years ago, Minneapolis-based Cray rolled out a $2.5
million machine called the X-MP/14se, which the company then
described as a "starter set." Now discontinued, it was
intended to offer supercomputing to potential users who
either couldn't afford or didn't need full-sized machines.
But the one-processor 14se was limited in its capabilities,
and couldn't connect to large data-storage devices.
   Those limitations as well as the development of a new
generation of technology led to that machine's demise.
   The 2E also replaces earlier one-processor and
two-processor Y machines, which didn't offer air cooling and
which cost twice as much. Moreover, the new machines offer
larger memories than the previous models.
   Cray said it is positioning the new small machines for two
types of customers -- those looking for an entry into
supercomputing and those current users with computing
problems too small for their current supercomputers but too
complex for easy solution elsewhere. Thus, the latter will be
able to "download" those discrete problems to the small Y.
   Supercomputers typically are used to tackle problems too
complex for regular mainframe machines; often the problems
are sophisticated mathematical models used to design such
products as automobiles, airplanes and drugs, or simulations
of such events as a nuclear explosion.
   Although the company says it made two-thirds of the
world's current supercomputer systems, it has been facing
increasing competition at the low end of the market,
particularly as it fights for more commercial customers. The
new line extension seeks to "offer customers real
supercomputer power at affordable prices," said Marcelo
Gumucio, Cray's president.
   Acknowledging what he called supercomputing's changing
landscape, Cray's chairman and chief executive officer, John
A. Rollwagen, said the company was responding to the
increasing popularity of computer networks while continuing
"aggressive development at the high end of the performance
spectrum."
   Mr. Gumucio said shipments of the 2E would begin within
three or four months but declined to estimate how many the
company was projecting to sell or lease in the next year.
   Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co. analyst Barry Willman estimates
that the new machine will contribute only marginally to
revenue this year but forecasts about 15 systems being
shipped next year. Gary Smaby, a Minneapolis-based analyst
who heads his own company, said he expects margins on the new
products to be "modestly lower" than on larger Cray machines.
   Cray stock closed at $48.75, up 75 cents, in composite
trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Drexel Unit, Aides Sued by Yugoslavia,
   Claiming $70 Million Investment Loss
   ----
   By Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The central bank of Yugoslavia sued Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc. and several Drexel officials, claiming
the bank was duped in a fraudulent scheme that funneled money
to the brokerage firm's parent, Drexel Burnham Lambert Group
Inc.
   In the suit, filed in federal court in Manhattan, the bank
claimed that because of the scheme it had an investment loss
of $70 million -- more than 1% of Yugoslavia's 1990 federal
budget. The bank said it was the first time it has ever lost
money on an investment transaction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The National Bank of Yugoslavia is seeking the return of
its funds and $10 million in punitive damages. It also asked
the court to order that the brokerage firm account for any
gains it made on the assets.
   The central bank is the third largest unsecured creditor
of Drexel Burnham Lambert Trading Corp., which was pushed
into bankruptcy-law proceedings last week alongside the
parent company. The parent filed under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code in February as its liquidity crisis mounted.
In the bankruptcy-law case, Yugoslavia is seeking repayment
of $71.9 million owed by DBL Trading, the company's commodity
trading unit.
   At the time of the parent company's bankruptcy-law filing,
it owed $645 million to DBL Trading. The central bank of
Yugoslavia claims that its investments with Drexel were part
of funds that were "upstreamed" to the cash-starved parent.
   The central bank said that when it turned over its funds
to Drexel in September, it believed they were being invested
conservatively. The bank said that under its investment
requirements, the money should have been invested either with
commercial banks ranking in the top 100 world-wide in terms
of assets or in high-quality debt securities from developed
countries. The central bank said it wouldn't have done
business with Drexel if it had known the money would be
loaned to the parent company. The lawsuit also accused Drexel
of misrepresentation in not disclosing the financial
difficulties the company was facing late last year.
   A Drexel spokesman said the company hasn't received a copy
of the complaint. The parent company has said that it
borrowed funds from DBL Trading and other affiliates as part
of a longstanding policy. The parent company's debt accounts
for almost all of DBL Trading's assets.
   The lawsuit said Drexel officials contacted the bank in
June to offer their services in "central bank reserve
management." The bank hadn't previously done any business
with Drexel.
   After meeting with Drexel officials in Belgrade, central
bank representatives agreed to have Drexel act as the bank's
intermediary in arranging "safe" investments, the suit said.
   The bank made two investments totaling $80 million with
Drexel in September and then rolled the time deposits over in
December at Drexel's request, the suit said. Although further
meetings were held as late as Jan. 10, Drexel officials never
told the central bank that the parent company was worried
about meeting its financial obligations, the suit said.
   On Feb. 13, the day of the parent company's Chapter 11
filing, the lawsuit said the Yugoslav bank received a telex
stating: "We have been trying to reach you urgently. Our
parent company has some liquidity problems which we would
like to explain to you over the telephone." The suit claims
bank officials were told one week later that the money had
been funneled to the parent company and couldn't be returned.
The suit was filed by Kirkland &amp; Ellis, a New York law firm
representing the bank. Richard Levy, a lawyer with the firm,
declined to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pacific Telesis Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   PAC
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Pacific Telesis Group's Pacific Bell unit
called for the redemption, effective June 22, of all the $100
million outstanding of seven-year 11 5/8% Eurobond debentures
due May 8, 1992.
   The company said the move is a "continuing effort to
reduce costs." The redemption price of the debentures will be
101% of their principal amount.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Brazil Will Begin Lifting
   Computer Import Limits
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRASILIA -- Brazil this week will begin lifting
restrictions on computer imports and open the market to
foreign multinationals to modernize its outdated industrial
sector, a top official said.
   "Protectionism has created complacent producers and
consumers," said Science and Technology Secretary Jose
Goldemberg.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Brazil will publish a list Thursday of 57 products that
would no longer receive subsidies and market protection,
ranging from eight-bit microcomputers used for entertainment
to low resolution monitors and non-laser printers.
   This will open the market to identical products
manufactured abroad. But these products will be charged
import duties and excise taxes, he said.
   The U.S. has been pressing Brazil to phase out subsidies
for Brazilian makers of high-tech products and to open up the
market to foreign competition.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Senate Looking Into Some Health-Insurance Pooling
   ---
   `Unscrupulous Promoters' of MEWAs
   Cause Problems for Small Businesses
   ----
   By John R. Emshwiller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   For small businesses, MEWA is becoming a four-letter word.
   A few years ago, having small businesses band together
into Multiple Employer Welfare Associations struck many
business owners as a great way to get cheaper health care.
But today, the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations is scheduled to hold a hearing in Washington
on MEWA fraud and abuse. "Unscrupulous promoters . . . are
literally playing with people's lives," says subcommittee
chairman Sam Nunn (D., Ga.).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Says Raymond Maria, the Labor Department's acting
inspector general: "The whole environment is an invitation to
larceny." Law-enforcement officials say MEWAs have fallen in
the cracks between state and federal oversight.
   Those and other problems with MEWAs have left many
business owners disillusioned. For instance, Jo Hardwick, the
owner of a real-estate agency in Cape Coral, Fla., signed
herself and some of her employees into a MEWA when she found
it difficult to get traditional health insurance. "We paid
our premiums, and then the problems started," she recalls.
Ms. Hardwick says she is out $1,100 in premiums and has had
to pay $8,000 of medical bills that were supposed to be
covered.
   According to testimony prepared by the Texas Board of
Insurance for today's Senate hearing, principals of Ms.
Hardwick's MEWA, which also operated in Texas, used premium
dollars to lease luxury cars, do construction work on their
homes and buy expensive suits and jewelry.
   James Helm, a principal of the MEWA, last month in a
deposition in a Texas state court denied wasting premium
dollars.
   To be sure, law-enforcement officials and others familiar
with MEWAs note that many MEWAs are operating successfully
and some MEWA failures are due to factors other than
chicanery. Robert van Maarth, the Lakewood, Colo.,
administrator of several MEWAs, says such plans are "still a
marvelous idea" when they are properly run and regulated.
   MEWAs, which are supposed to act as self-insurance pools
or as purchasers of group policies from insurance companies,
have proliferated as small companies cope with soaring health
costs and difficulty in getting standard coverage.
   Nobody seems to know the precise dimensions of MEWA fraud,
or even the total number of MEWAs. But state and federal
officials who have begun investigating corruption in these
benefit plans estimate that unpaid medical claims probably
reach into the hundreds of millions of dollars and affect
hundreds of thousands of workers.
   For the small-business owner, the financial danger from
failed MEWAs can be enormous. Patricia Petersen, a deputy
insurance commissioner for the state of Washington, says
employers could be held liable under federal law for any
unpaid medical bills of their employees.
   In the case of Zapata Bancshares Inc., unpaid claims total
several hundred thousand dollars, says Laura Miller, who
handles claims for the bank holding company, based in Zapata,
Texas. (In 1989, Zapata's net income was $365,000.) The
company hopes to recover at least some of the money from the
operators and insurance brokers involved with the same
multistate MEWA used by Ms. Hardwick's firm.
   A federal creation in the mid-1970s under the purview of
the Labor Department, MEWAs were largely unregulated by
either the state or federal government. By the early 1980s,
enough MEWA problems were surfacing that Congress gave states
their own powers to oversee the plans (then generally known
as Multiple Employer Trusts, or METs). But most states still
looked to the federal government for the lead in regulating
MEWAs.
   In Washington state, Ms. Petersen says her office has
received increasing numbers of complaints about MEWAs. Among
other things, insurance regulators found that the person
running one MEWA previously had his securities licenses in
two states revoked for absconding with clients' funds, Ms.
Petersen says.
   Ms. Petersen called on the Labor Department for help,
partly because MEWA administrators were turning away state
investigators, claiming federal jurisdiction. "We just needed
a federal body to get through the doors," she says. "But the
Labor Department wouldn't do it."
   Tom Gallagher, Florida's insurance commissioner, says the
state has spent a lot of time fighting in court over MEWAs'
claims of federal exemption from state regulation. MEWAs
"keep taking people's money and not paying claims," he says.
   Labor Department infighting may be hampering moves against
MEWA abuse. Mr. Maria, the acting inspector general, who has
about two dozen criminal MEWA investigations under way, says
he could triple such activity if not for restrictions on his
role. (Bills have recently been introduced in Congress to
give inspectors general broader investigative power.)
   But David George Ball, an assistant secretary of labor,
says the pension and welfare office has responsibility over
MEWAs and has some 40 civil and criminal probes of its own
under way.
   Mr. Ball declines to comment on the department's past
handling of the MEWA issue but says that in recent months it
has "brought tremendous amounts of new resources to bear" on
MEWA problems. He says Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole just
yesterday sent a letter to each state insurance commissioner
presenting a program for cooperating in investigating MEWAs.
   Meanwhile, entrepreneurs can take some steps to protect
themselves, say lawenforcement officials. Their advice:
   -- Research any MEWA thoroughly. Get the names of people
running it and find out what jobs they've had before. Check
with regulators in states where they worked to see if there
were any problems.
   -- Ask for a financial plan for the MEWA and get it
evaluated by an independent expert. "Our experience is that
the worst frauds generally won't show you a financial
statement," says James Harrington, a supervising investigator
with the California state insurance department.
   -- Press insurance agents on exactly what they are
selling. Some employers complain that insurance agents tell
them they are getting coverage through an insurance company
when in truth they are being sold a MEWA.
   -- Once in a plan, keep an eye on it. The federal MEWA
legislation envisions employers' being active members of the
MEWA boards of trustees, says Washington's Ms. Petersen. But
all too often, she adds, employers "just leave the fox
sitting there alone."
   ---
   Eugene Carlson contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sallie Mae Chief Executive
   Named Dean at Dartmouth
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   SLM WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Edward A. Fox, president and chief executive
officer of the Student Loan Marketing Association, was named
dean of Dartmouth University's Amos Tuck School of business.
   Mr. Fox, 53 years old, succeeds Colin C. Blaydon, 49, who
will return to teaching after taking a sabbatical to work on
a book.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As Sallie Mae's first and only chief executive officer,
Mr. Fox oversaw the student-loan servicing concern's
evolution from a company with "a net worth of negative
$50,000 on my first day" 17 years ago to one with assets of
$37 billion.
   Mr. Fox has taught at Georgetown University and the
business schools of New York University, the University of
Pennsylvania, and Harvard University.
   The new dean said he intends to recruit more women and
minority students and faculty to meet the changing
demographic nature of the work force. "Women and minorities
are replacing retiring white males," Mr. Fox said. "We should
have more managers that come from those environments."
   Sallie Mae said its board will meet next week to begin its
search for a successor to Mr. Fox, who will step down in late
summer. Separately, the company said Ronald F. Hunt,
executive vice president and general counsel, resigned,
effective July. Mr. Hunt, 46, will pursue private practice in
his native North Carolina.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrial Stocks Rally to Record
   Of 2821.53 as Volume Stays High
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The stock market rallied to a record high on
the Dow Jones Industrial Average as encouraging prospects for
interest rates and inflation continued to push investors off
the sidelines.
   Prices closed well below the day's best levels, however,
as profit-taking surfaced in the afternoon amid speculation
that the market had overdone its advance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There's a lot of people that are still saying, `We've got
to correct. We've gone too far too fast,'" said Dale Tills,
manager of institutional equities trading at Charles Schwab &amp;
Co., San Francisco.
   The industrial average gave back most of its gains but
managed to finish 19.95 higher at 2821.53 -- above the
previous record of 2810.15, established Jan. 2.
   After surging 63.07 points Friday, the Dow industrial
average tacked on an additional 52 points through midday as a
result of continued buying interest from institutional
investors seeking to offset short positions, and some
occasional bursts of futures-related program buying.
   In the process, the average surpassed its best-ever
intraday reading with ease. On Jan. 3, the 30-stock measure
had peaked at 2834.04; in the latest session, it exceeded
that mark by nearly 20 points.
   Broader market indexes, hampered by their relatively weak
performance in comparison to the Dow industrial average over
the past few months, didn't come close to setting record
highs of their own.
   Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index closed 1.4% below its
all-time high of 359.80, set last Oct. 9. Also, the New York
Stock Exchange Composite Index and the Dow Jones Equity
Market Index finished 2.9% and 2.4%, respectively, below the
all-time high set on the same day.
   In the latest session, the S&amp;P 500 gained 2.75 to 354.75,
while the composite index added 1.41 to 193.65, and the Dow
equity index went up 2.68 to 329.74. Advancing issues led
decliners by 1,062 to 555 on the Big Board.
   Market activity remained brisk with 225,410,000 shares
changing hands. The volume was the second highest this year
on the Big Board, outranked only by Friday's total of
234,040,000.
   Among technical analysts, who focus on market statistics
in assessing the outlook for stock prices, the broad market's
relatively weak performance in comparison to the Dow
industrial average has been a source of concern for some
time.
   But some technicians said the situation appears likely to
change for the better in the wake of Friday's surge, in which
the number of shares traded above their previous close on the
Big Board topped the volume of decliners by a margin of more
than 19-to-1.
   The ratio of advancing volume to declining volume has
exceeded 9-to-1 only two dozen times in the past 30 years,
according to a study by Richard Eakle, president of Eakle
Associates, a Fair Haven, N.J.-based research firm.
   The study found that stock prices were higher three months
later in 19 of those 24 instances. Six months later, the
market was higher all but once -- in the aftermath of the
October 1987 crash -- and the Dow industrial average showed
an average gain of 17.3%.
   In addition, Mr. Eakle says, measures of the market's
breadth, or the relationship between advancing and declining
stocks, appear to be "inextricably linked to trends in
interest rates." With rates having fallen recently, further
strength in the broad market can be anticipated, he says.
   Ned Davis, a technical analyst based in Venice, Fla., says
the market could be headed for "an upside blow-off," citing
the new high in the Dow industrial average, high levels of
cash and short interest among investors, and indications that
many market players remain pessimistic in spite of the
market's strength.
   If such a blow-off takes place, Mr. Davis says, two
possible targets would emerge for the industrial average --
"just below 3000 if people turn bullish rapidly and everyone
is focused on 3000 as a target," or 3180, representing 30
times his estimate of $106 in 1990 dividend payments for the
30 stocks in the average.
   Du Pont rallied 1 3/4 to 40 3/8 in Big Board composite
trading of 2.6 million shares. Mabon Nugent upgraded its
investment rating on the stock to "buy" from "neutral" and
raised its earnings estimates for 1990 and 1991.
   Federal National Mortgage Association, the most active Big
Board issue, dropped 7/8 to 37 7/8 on 4.1 million shares as
selected financial stocks became a target for profit-taking
after setting the pace for Friday's surge. The stock reached
40 5/8 before pulling back in the afternoon.
   Progressive climbed 1 7/8 to 40. The Wall Street Journal
reported in the "Heard on the Street" column that analysts
believe the company will benefit from other insurers'
pullbacks from the auto insurance market.
   International Business Machines rose 1/4 to 114 1/4 on 2.3
million shares, but other major technology issues fared
better with investors. Digital Equipment went up 1 7/8 to 90
1/2, Compaq Computer gained 2 to 112 3/8, and Hewlett-Packard
rose 1 1/4 to 48 3/8 on 1.7 million shares.
   Prime Motor Inns advanced 1 3/4 to 12 1/8 on 1.7 million
shares in the wake of Manor Care's expression of interest in
making a bid for the company's Howard Johnson and Ramada
franchise systems. As previously reported, Prime Motor agreed
in principle to sell a 65% stake in the systems to Blackstone
Capital Partners for about $200 million in cash and notes.
   USX rose 1 to 34 1/4 on 1.9 million shares following a
favorable review of the company in Barron's magazine from
Frederick Leuffer, an analyst at C.J. Lawrence, Morgan
Grenfell. He said the stock's intrinsic value, based on a
variety of measures, is around $50 a share.
   Atlantic Richfield jumped 2 7/8 to 118 3/4. In a 7-2
ruling, the Supreme Court threw out an antitrust lawsuit
against the company by independent gas stations in California
and Washington state.
   W.R. Grace advanced 3/4 to 28 1/2 after news that
California officials are testing a new kind of catalytic
converter, manufactured by the company's Camet unit.
   Mylan Laboratories went down 1 1/4 to 22 5/8. The company
acknowledged to Dow Jones Professional Investor Report that
April sales of Eldepryl, a drug produced by a joint venture
of Mylan and Bolar Pharmaceutical, fell more than 7% from the
March level. Bolar dropped 5/8 to 7 1/2 in American Stock
Exchange trading.
   The Amex Market Value Index rose 1.84 to 354.34, its 11th
straight advance, but remained well below the all-time high
of 397.03 set last Oct. 10. Volume totaled 16,170,000 shares
compared with 16,600,000 Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TRACKING TRAVEL
   ----
   By Jonathan Dahl
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN AMR P.SAL Z.SR BAB G.LHA F GM
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Patrons Are Defecting
   To Foreign Carriers
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   IF U.S. AIRLINES don't watch out, they may end up with the
same problem U.S. auto makers have: the reputation that
foreign is better.
   Increasingly, consumers are rating foreign airlines ahead
of U.S. airlines in service. A reader poll last fall by
Business Traveler International magazine is typical. Only
three U.S. airlines cracked the readers' list of top 10
international airlines. The most popular U.S. carrier on the
list, AMR Corp.'s American Airlines, ranked only fifth
overall, behind Singapore Airlines, Swissair, British Airways
and Lufthansa.
   The trend is showing up in market-share figures, too. In
1989, only 40.9% of all trips between the U.S. and Europe
were on U.S.-owned carriers, down from 42.7% in 1988,
according to Airline Economics Inc.
   In reputation, "U.S. airlines have undoubtedly fallen
behind," says Ed Perkins, editor of Consumer Reports Travel
Letter. "They've frittered away their leadership position and
are just fighting to stay even now."
   The biggest difference in service, consumer groups say, is
crew attitude. "Foreign airlines just seem to be attentive to
people's needs," says Richard Livingston, spokesman for the
International Airline Passenger Association. Consumers also
complain that domestic airlines are often just plain
cheapskates, charging for movies and drinks, while many
foreign carriers don't. "Little things like that really annoy
people," Mr. Perkins says.
   For their part, U.S. airlines insist that foreign service
often isn't really better, just different. "It seems better
because it's not what they normally get," says a spokesman
for the Air Transport Association, an airline trade group
based in Washington. Airlines also say some travelers still
avoid U.S. carriers because they think terrorists target
them.
                                                                                                       

   It Would Be Big of You
   To Take Another Seat
                                                                                                       

   TRAVELERS are starting to lose their patience with chubby
seat companions.
   At least one consumer newsletter, Ashington-Pickett
Airlines &amp; Travel Reports, says it is getting more complaints
about overweight passengers squishing their seatmates. One
Delta Air Lines passenger wrote he even had to spend most of
a recent trip to Orlando, Fla., on the flight attendant's
jump seat because the obese passenger assigned to sit next to
him made his own seat unbearable.
   "People really get upset about this and they're not the
least bit shy about complaining," says Michael
Ashington-Pickett, publisher of the newsletter, which is
based in Orlando.
   Consumer groups blame the planes. They insist airlines
have been cutting seat size on some wide-bodied jets to pack
in more seats, although seat manufacturers deny it. Seat
manufacturers do concede that leg room in coach has been cut
to 31 or 32 inches from about 34 inches.
   Technically, airlines can bar obese travelers if they
can't fit in the seat or if they block aisles, but airline
officials concede they almost never do that.
                                                                                                       

   In Hotels, Newer Means
   Fuller -- and Costlier
                                                                                                       

   WOULD YOU PAY an extra $10 a night to stay at a hotel just
because it was newer than another one?
   Apparently so. The average occupancy rate of hotels less
than three years old is two percentage points higher than at
older properties, according to a survey of more than 1,000
new hotels by Smith Travel Research. The average nightly
price for the newer properties is $69, compared with $59 for
older establishments.
   The trend is even more pronounced in the budget sector.
The younger accommodations, which on average cost $4 more
than the older hotels, have an average occupancy rate of
61.9%, compared with 57.4%.
   Given that even one percentage point can be the difference
between profit and loss, the newer properties obviously "have
a tremendous advantage," says Randy Smith, president of Smith
Travel, Hendersonville, Tenn.
   The appeal has as much to do with the design of new
properties as it does with age. New hotels usually have
interior hallways, which many travelers prefer to the outdoor
ones, Mr. Smith says. The newer hotels also tend to have
smaller dining rooms and lobbies, which guests say they
prefer because they hold down overall costs.
   New hotels also tend to be marketed better, he says,
because the pressure to earn profits is higher. Years ago,
there were so many tax advantages to building hotels that a
lot of owners didn't need to make much money from the
operations. But with the tax laws changed and the industry in
a slow period, hotels have become much more aggressive -- and
new hotels tout their advantages.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   AFTER YEARS of spending freely on their tourism
departments, many states are sharply cutting back.
Massachusetts has budgeted $6.9 million for its tourism
department this year, down from $9.5 million in 1989. New
York plans to cut its tourism budget about 15%. The cutbacks
reflect the downturn in the state economies. There are, of
course, exceptions. California and Hawaii are among those
that have increased their tourism budgets, according to the
U.S. Travel Data Center. . . . Avis Inc. received the highest
performance rating among rental car companies in a survey of
400 executives by Opinion Research Corp. But its approval
results aren't that much to brag about. Only 60% of the
executives gave it a rating of 8 or better on a 1 to 10
scale. Hertz Corp. came in second with 57%, followed by
National Car Rental Systems Inc. (51%), and Budget Rent a Car
Inc. (40%).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Armenian Exile
   Sits to Compose
   Freedom's Anthem
   ----
   By Amity Shlaes
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   Of all the tests facing Mikhail Gorbachev these days, one
of the toughest comes from -- Glendale, Calif. Glendale is
the home of Paruyr Hayrikyan, an upstart Armenian whom the
Soviets thought they got rid of when they stripped him of
citizenship and dumped him in Ethiopia in 1988. Now this
exiled democrat is a registered candidate for election to the
Armenian Supreme Soviet. Armenia has not yet reached the
point of declaring independence like Lithuania. But voters
who hope this Sunday's election will bring change are
marching through the streets shouting "Hayrikyan,
Independence."
   Over lunch at The Wall Street Journal recently, Mr.
Hayrikyan outlined a future for Armenia. "We need political
independence first, and then economic independence -- the
head must come before the stomach." He worries about
independence movements throughout the Soviet Union. "After
Lithuania, we are sure: The Western governments are with the
communists and the democratic movements are alone."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The answer, he believes, is for independence movements to
join hands. In Paris last year, he helped to found Democracy
and Independence, an umbrella group that pulled together
exiled leaders of prodemocracy movements from many republics
of the Soviet Union. Democracy and Independence operates out
of an office in Glendale whose answering machine talks to
callers in English and Armenian.
   News of strife between Armenians and Azerbaijanis has
overshadowed reports of democratic heroism from Mr.
Hayrikyan's part of the world. Mr. Hayrikyan takes the
classic Armenian stance: He believes the disputed region of
Nagorno-Karabakh "was taken" from Armenians by Moscow and
given to Azerbaijanis.
   But Mr. Hayrikyan argues that much of the inter-ethnic
strife has been fomented by Moscow to obscure the
independence struggle. During the past six months, Moscow has
opened its armories of tanks and guns to rebels from both
sides to escalate the conflict. In January, Moscow "closed
her eyes" during six days of killing in which more than 100
died. For now, he says, Azerbaijanis and Armenians have
little hope of resolving their difficulties on home
territory. But he hopes international meetings -- such as one
set up by Czech President Vaclav Havel for July 4 in Prague
-- will ease the violence.
   Hope is something in which Mr. Hayrikyan has a fair amount
of practice. "I was very young" he says, recalling his first
arrest in 1969. He was arrested for his activities as leader
of what was then Armenia's only noncommunist party, the
National United Party. "But I was a real anti-communist." He
spent the following four years in prison -- much of them in
solitary confinement in a small cell. In 1974, he was
arrested again, and didn't go free until 1988. Of the 41
years of his life, 17 have been spent in some form of prison.
   Time behind bars was, for Mr. Hayrikyan, time to think
about what kind of freedom Armenia needed. "I asked, `What is
the revolutionary way and what is the peaceful way?'" In
prison he learned a new term that seemed to him like the
peaceful solution: referendum. "When I talked about
`referendum' after I got out of prison, people didn't know
what I meant. I had to explain -- referendum is the action of
democracy." He also used the prison time to study
independence movements outside Armenia, and learned Latvian
well enough to do some Latvian-Armenian translation.
   It was another talent that made Mr. Hayrikyan a national
symbol: songwriting. His last words to the Soviet court after
one prison sentence were: "You may kill me, but after my
death you have to fight against my songs." His words held
true. Armenians sing his lyrics: "We are in prison, we are in
exile, but, Fatherland, you will be free."
   In the end the Soviets resorted to deporting their gadfly.
But even this plan went wrong at first: Foreign governments
refused to accept Mr. Hayrikyan unless he came willingly, and
Mr. Hayrikyan preferred prison at home to exile.
   Finally the Soviets found a country that did not seem
fussy about whether Mr. Hayrikyan wanted to emigrate or not:
Ethiopia. With seven KGB men and a doctor to babysit him, the
Armenian was put on a nine-hour flight from Moscow to Addis
Ababa. There Mr. Hayrikyan found asylum with the U.S.
Embassy. Later, in Paris, he returned a pair of shoes the KGB
had given him. "`These are for the Soviets' revolutionary
museum,' I said. Shoes of the last person forcibly exiled
from the Soviet Union."
   Oddly enough, this kind of heroism has not always sat well
with the large Armenian community in Glendale. Historically,
many Armenians have seen Moscow as the Armenians' protector
against Turkey, the nation that killed so many Armenians
seven decades ago. Even today, many California Armenians
support a tolerant attitude toward Mr. Gorbachev. When, in an
interview with a Turkish paper, Mr. Hayrikyan said Turks and
Armenians should forget old differences, they got angry. But
Armenians closer to Moscow -- Armenians in Soviet Armenia --
"want my return" says Mr. Hayrikyan.
   For now, Mr. Hayrikyan's name is on the ballot. Whether
Armenians will get more than this contact with one of their
own nation's candidates depends on Mikhail Gorbachev. Mr.
Hayrikyan, for one, is optimistic. "Several years ago,
Gorbachev was saying that the Soviet Union didn't need a
multiparty system. Now he's saying different things."
   "Every change," he says, "is good for Armenia."
   ---
   Miss Shlaes is deputy editorial features editor of The
Wall Street Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   MAS MASX
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MASCO Corp. -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. lowered
Masco Corp.'s senior debt rating to single-A-3 from
single-A-2 and its subordinated debt rating to Baa-1 from
single-A-3. Moody's said it downgraded Masco's rating because
of high debt levels and modest interest coverage, in part
because of the debt of its Masco Industries affiliate. Also,
Masco has spent about $2 billion on the acquisition and
integration of its home-furnishing operations since 1986,
Moody's said. The rating service said the company's expansion
has kept debt levels high both at Masco Corp. and 49%-owned
Masco Industries. Debt-protection measurements have weakened
because of reduced earnings, Moody's said. Masco's earnings
in the first quarter were $69.8 million, or 45 cents a share,
down 7.4% from $75.4 million, or 48 cents a share, a year
ago. Masco, a Taylor, Mich., maker of building and home
furnishings, declined to comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   The True Conservative
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A25
</SO>
<LP>
   I always read George Melloan's articles. Simply put, he
brings me much information and causes me to think more deeply
than I would otherwise.
   In regard to his April 16 Global View column, "Political
Rhetoric Turned Upside Down," the reason there is so much
misunderstanding concerning "liberal" and "conservative," I
submit, is that the defining of these terms stops with saying
that "preservation of the status quo" is thought to be the
end result sought by the conservative. A true conservative is
one who must have a valid reason, as distinguished from
emotion or seeking to curry favor with the public, to depart
from tried-and-true practices or approaches to daily life and
its problems. The true conservative has learned from history
or at least has sought avidly to do so.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Paul L. Gomory
   Bethesda, Md.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Surge on Yen, Interest Rate News;
   London Shares Post Biggest Gain Since Last July
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stock prices surged Monday in active buying
encouraged by the yen's recovery and lower interest rates in
the bond market. The benchmark Nikkei index finished above
the 32000-point level for the first time in two months.
   London shares posted their largest daily gain since last
July.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The dollar finished Tokyo trading at 153.35 yen, up from
152.70 yen late Friday in New York but still well off its
levels in the middle of last week. The yen's strength,
meanwhile, helped push up bond prices, thus lowering their
yields.
   Strong buying interest stimulated by such rapid
improvement on currency and bond markets pushed up the Nikkei
index 420 points within 15 minutes of the opening. Supported
by growing expectations for future advances, the Nikkei index
remained at higher levels the rest of the day to close up
530.51 points at 32042.65, somewhat below its intraday high
of 32071.08. The index advanced 531.88 points Friday.
   In Tokyo Tuesday, the Nikkei index rose 73.34 points to
close the morning session at 32115.99.
   Monday's volume on the First Section was estimated at 800
million shares, up from 626 million Friday.
   Advancing issues widely outpaced declining issues, 761 to
225, while 137 issues remained unchanged.
   The broader-based Tokyo Stock Price Index (Topix) of all
issues listed in the First Section finished higher for the
ninth consecutive trading day. The index, which gained 36.12
points Friday, was up 41.35 points, or 1.76%, to close at
2390.32.
   The Second Section index, which advanced 63.67 points
Friday, added 25.64 points, or 0.67%, to close at 3845.46.
Volume in the Second Section was 17 million shares, down from
23 million Friday.
   A wide range of investors, including usually cautious
financial institutions, came back to the trading floor
Monday. Especially active were foreign investors and Japanese
corporations, traders said.
   Many participants said they had expected the Nikkei to
face strong selling pressure when it cleared 31600 points,
which marked a one-third recovery of the loss the index
posted from its high of 38915 on Dec. 29, and its low of
28002 April 2.
   But such selling pressure was overwhelmed by strong buying
interest Monday, they said.
   An official at a major financial institution said the
market is likely to absorb selling pressure this week, helped
by strong buying interest from investors who fear they will
miss profit-taking opportunities unless they have stock
holdings.
   Many institutional investors have kept their positions at
low levels and shifted their funds to the short-term money
market since early April as they expected another stock
plunge in April or May, said Hironobu Hagio, manager of the
equity division at Nippon Life Insurance Co.
   But now that currency and interest rates are moving in
opposite directions from expectations, these investors are
rushing back to the stock market, he said.
   A key to further advances of stock prices is when and how
much these investors would shift their funds from short-term
money markets back to stocks, he said.
   However, Mr. Hagio also cited investors such as his
company, which bought stocks in April when prices were lower,
that are awaiting selling opportunities amid recent sharp
gains.
   Electricals were one of a few losing sectors Monday, as
the yen's recovery discouraged investors' interest in these
export-oriented companies, traders said. Sony, Pioneer and
TDK ended lower.
   Advances, meanwhile, were led by steel manufacturers,
shipbuilders, electric power companies and trading houses.
   Tokyo Electric Power gained 260 yen ($1.70) to 4,670 yen.
Nippon Steel was up 18 to 629 and Marubeni Corp. rose 20 to
845.
   Securities companies also advanced on the recent recovery
of stocks, traders said. Nomura Securities rose 130 to 2,430,
while Daiwa Securities ended at 1,640, up 80.
   London shares finished at the day's highs albeit in
sluggish trading, ending well above the psychologically
important 2200-level barrier on the Financial Times-Stock
Exchange 100-share index.
   The index closed up 38.6 points at 2214.5 and well above
its intraday minimum of 2202.0, reached just after the start
of official dealings.
   At the close, the narrower FT 30 share index was up 24.7
points at 1733.5. Volume was a relatively thin 375.1 million
shares, compared with the moderate 510.1 million that changed
hands Friday.
   In the futures market, the June FT-SE 100 index contract
closed at 2252.0, up broadly from 2215.0 Friday.
   Strength on Wall Street added fuel to an early rally that
was sustained throughout the session and exaggerated by a
shortage of stock, dealers said.
   The market largely ignored some gloomy economic news
released around midday that showed increases in the U.K.'s
April retail sales and producer price indexes, indicating
continued high inflation.
   The government reported a 1% rise in April retail sales
from March -- surpassing market expectations of a 0.3%
monthly rise -- and a 2.4% yearly increase. April's
provisional producer price index showed output prices rising
1% from March.
   Despite the sharp advance, most London dealers were
skeptical about the market's being able to sustain its
bullish momentum against the grim economic backdrop in the
U.K.
   There have been no positive fundamental changes in
Britain's economy that will lend confidence to institutional
investors and spur fresh buying, traders said. To reassure
players that the stock market is the investment vehicle of
choice, a solid indication that inflation is falling or
interest rates will be eased would be necessary, and neither
looks likely in the short term, they said.
   Clothing and food retailer Marks &amp; Spencer added 4 1/2
pence (7.5 cents) to 202 1/2 pence after reporting a 14% rise
in pretax profit, coming in at the high end of market
expectations.
   Gas utility British Gas, which announced a management
restructuring, rose 6 1/2 to 210. Conglomerate Polly Peck,
which went ex-dividend, jumped 14 to 419 as it agreed to sell
nine refrigerated cargo ships acquired in the takeover of Del
Monte to a Norwegian consortium for $237.8 million.
   Enterprise and Lasmo, the oil companies, firmed after
Kuwait officially announced it will cut back on operating
spot contracts, leaving more room for the British concerns.
Enterprise rose 18 to 618 and Lasmo climbed 17 to 400.
   Elsewhere, stocks closed higher in Brussels, Amsterdam,
Stockholm and Milan and lower in Paris, Frankfurt and Zurich.
South African golds closed firmer.
   Share prices closed higher in Sydney, Wellington, Hong
Kong and Singapore, lower in Taipei and Seoul and little
changed in Manila.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                  % This
                                 May 11   May 10    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ........................  324.4    317.2  -  0.2
   Britain .....................  645.1    640.2  - 10.5
   Canada ......................  389.3    383.8  - 10.0
   Japan ....................... 1329.7   1310.9  - 19.7
   France ......................  584.4    587.7  +  3.1
   Germany .....................  302.9    302.9  +  6.2
   Hong Kong ................... 2216.8   2232.4  +  5.7
   Switzerland .................  215.5    211.7  -  2.4
   Australia ...................  301.5    299.6  -  8.9
   World index .................  510.6    498.8  - 10.0
   ---
                   Weekly Percentage Leaders
                                                                                                       

   Last week's best and worst performing stocks among those
issues that make up 80% of the world's stock market
capitalization (in local currency)
                                                                                                       

   ISSUE (COUNTRY)                          CLOSE     %CHG
                                                                                                       

                        WINNING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

   Northern Star Holdings (Australia) ...    0.2    + 33.3
   Prime Motor Inns (U.S.) ..............   10.375  + 29.7
   Higo Bank (Japan) .................... 1240.0    + 25.3
   Cycle and Carriage (Singapore) .......    3.96   + 23.8
   Mitsubishi Steel Mfg. (Japan) ........ 1550.0    + 20.2
   Elec. and Eltek. (Hong Kong) .........    0.56   + 17.9
   Nokia Ord Free (Finland) .............   94.0    + 17.5
   Honshu Paper (Japan) ................. 1930.0    + 17.0
   Nagasakiy (Japan) .................... 4500.0    + 16.9
   Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie (Australia) .    1.04   + 16.9
                                                                                                       

                        LOSING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

   British Common Hold. (Britain) .......    0.05   - 90.6
   Forsayth (Australia) .................    0.26   - 61.8
   Emperor Mines (Australia) ............    1.1    - 21.4
   Ames Department Stores (U.S.) ........    2.375  - 20.8
   Cultor I (Finland) ...................   71.0    - 19.3
   Denison Mines A. (Canada) ............    1.45   - 14.7
   Valmet (Finland) .....................   39.5    - 13.2
   Incitec (Australia) ..................    1.4    - 12.5
   Wartsila IIFree (Finland) ............  376.0    - 11.7
   Carter Hawley Hale Store (U.S.) ......    5.625  - 10.0
   () ...................................     ....  -
                                                                                                       

   Source: Morgan Stanley Capital Intl. Perspective
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Printronix Buys Back Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   PTNX
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Printronix Inc. said it bought back
927,142 shares of its common stock, or about 20%, between
June 9, 1989 and Feb. 1, 1990, and that its board has
authorized the buy-back of an additional 600,000 shares, or
16%, on the open market. The company has about 3.7 million
common shares outstanding.
   Printronix designs, makes and markets computer printers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Attempts to Restore
   The Caribou Falter
   In the Maine Woods
   ---
   Few Survive After Transplant
   From Canadian North;
   The Problem With Deer
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   SHIN POND, Maine -- In a sunlit clearing in the vast
wilderness north of snow-capped Mount Katahdin, a majestic
woodland caribou snaps to attention and tests the faint
breeze. It is a sight that hasn't been seen for more than a
century here, though great herds once roamed Maine.
   The chalk-white stag looks healthy and alert. But the odds
are he will die soon.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Caribou No. 630 -- for 159.630 megahertz, the signature
frequency of a transmitter on his neck -- is an unwitting
conscript in a grand plan to transplant this stately relative
of the reindeer from northern Canada back to its former
habitat of Maine. But the four-year-old Maine Caribou Project
is stirring controversy and raising questions about who is
benefiting, since it doesn't seem to be the caribou.
   Some of the three dozen or so animals that have been
reintroduced died right away from the trauma of capture,
unable to survive being rounded up by helicopter, shot by
tranquilizing darts and shipped 1,200 miles. More hardships
have followed. Of the 12 released last year, 11 fell to
disease or predators. So many perished that "we had to stop
naming them" and give them numbers instead, says Mark
McCullough, the project's biologist.
   Backers also had to suspend the "Adopt-a-Caribou" program,
a potent fund-raising technique for the privately financed
project, because the animals kept dying. Dandy, Davey,
Natalie, Kathy and the eight other caribou released in 1989
had been adopted by grade-school classes, garden clubs and
businesses, which then got reports on their progress in the
wild.
   The schoolchildren learned a cruel lesson. Natalie was
mauled by a black bear. All that was left of Davey were a few
bones, gnawed clean. Dandy died in a rock slide, while Kathy
was claimed by a stomach ulcer. Many others succumbed to a
ghastly parasite, a worm that slithers up the spinal cord and
bores into the brain, driving the victim crazy before killing
it. Even in the nursery pens for those bred in captivity at
the University of Maine, bottle-fed baby caribou -- doe-eyed
stars of the local TV news -- were felled by viruses and
diarrhea.
   The carnage has ignited an emotional debate in Maine over
animal rights and the wisdom of trying to fool Mother Nature.
"The whole thing has been a howling failure," declares Linn
Pulis, a member of the Maine Animal Coalition. She suggests
the project was really undertaken for the benefit of humans,
based on a self-centered, romantic notion of wilderness.
"It's certainly not being done for the caribou," she says.
   The Humane Society of the U.S. calls it a "disaster" and
has asked Gov. John McKernan to suspend the project, which
needs permits from the state wildlife commission. (He hasn't
yet responded.) Now public opinion, which strongly favored
the project in its first three years, seems to be shifting as
well.
   The project's stated scientific goal is to find out
whether caribou can inhabit their former range in Maine
despite the advance of white-tailed deer, carriers of the
brainworm parasite. But backers acknowledge that other
elements -- such as nostalgia, sentimentality and tourism --
may be playing a part. "The caribou is a tremendously
important symbol of wilderness" and a key part of Maine's
heritage, explains Thomas Urquhart, director of the Maine
Audubon Society. The state map is dotted with Caribou Lakes,
Caribou Mountains, Caribou Brooks and Caribou Bogs, not to
mention the town of Caribou -- where one hasn't set hoof in a
hundred years.
   "Part of the problem is that the caribou have lovely dark
eyes, and people grow attached to them, and the media love
them," says Mr. Urquhart, who serves on the board of the
project. The exposure helps draw donations, he concedes, "but
it obscures the fact that this is a science experiment, and
experiments don't always work."
   Some skeptics, however, suspect that "blood sport" was the
hidden motivation for the project. "The object of the caribou
caper is to establish a modest supply of another big-game
animal hunters can slaughter," charges Mike Brown, columnist
for some rural weekly newspapers.
   Despite the mounting criticism, boosters aren't giving up.
Twenty more animals were released last month, and plans call
for 25 more to be caught in Canada and released next year and
another 25 in 1992. The hope is that eventually caribou will
fare as well as the puffin, the peregrine falcon and the wild
turkey, all of which have been successfully reintroduced in
Maine.
   Mr. McCullough, the biologist, is philosophical about the
harsh way nature has dealt with his experiment. "Death is
part of what happens in the wild every day," he says. "It's
the hard reality that they never show on programs like `Wild
Kingdom.'" As for hunting, he strongly denies that one goal
is to supply caribou for game. Hunting could occur only if
there were someday so many that a short, restricted hunt
might be needed to manage the herd, he says.
   Mr. McCullough believes that man destroyed most of the
original caribou population and now has "a moral obligation
to undo the damage he has done." He has decorated his office
with a painting he did of a regal stag and its mate in the
swirling mists atop Mount Katahdin. "One day, we hope that
this scene can again become a reality," he says.
   But others think nature had the decisive role in the
caribou's departure from Maine. They wonder whether caribou
can live alongside deer, which aren't affected by the brain
worm they carry. The parasite's complex life cycle begins in
deer droppings and spreads in a larval stage to snails and
slugs on the forest floor, which pass it back to deer -- or
to an unlucky feeding caribou.
   Historically the range of deer and caribou didn't overlap,
says Arthur T. Bergerud, of the University of Victoria in
British Columbia. He led the first effort to return caribou
to Maine, in 1963, which failed. "Caribou just can't share
their range with the white-tailed deer," he says. Where they
appear to do so, as on Quebec's Gaspe Peninsula, caribou and
deer are in fact separated by altitude and feeding habits, he
says.
   Mr. Bergerud believes the caribou left Maine largely
because shifting climate cycles allowed deer to migrate
northward. Other scientists think caribou left after logging
reduced the old forests to scrub and new-growth woods, which
deer prefer. All agree that heavy hunting also played a role.
   Whatever the reason for their disappearance, many
officials in both Canada and Maine think it's worth finding
out whether caribou can live here now. Maine's wildlife
commissioner, William Vail, says the caribou project should
be allowed to continue at least one more season.
   The biologists "have done an outstanding job," he says.
"It's a tough issue politically and socially. Some people
think its terribly cruel to take them from the wild and
transplant them. But it's science, and we think it deserves
another chance."
   Kevin Noyce, a mechanic at the Irving gasoline station in
the tiny northern Maine town of Patten, agrees. "Lots of
people think they're wasting their time, and a lot of money,
but I think it's worth a try," he says. "If caribou are
running around the forest again 50 years from now it'll seem
like it was a pretty good idea."
   However, Mr. Noyce is less enthusiastic about another
reintroduction effort recently proposed by federal officials.
"Now, ask me about timber wolves," he says, "and you'll get a
different answer."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   `English Rule' Could
   Cripple Victims' Rights
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A25
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   In his April 11 Rule of Law column, "The Good News Is
There Are No More `Frivolous Lawsuits,'" L. Gordon Crovitz
argues for adoption of "English rule" on legal costs, whereby
plaintiffs who lose in court are forced to pay defense costs
and attorneys' fees. This country has never accepted such a
doctrine because of the chilling effect it would have on
victims' rights to obtain fair compensation in court. Even
those with strong cases would fear pursuing a legitimate
claim, on the chance they would lose and be economically
devastated by having to pay legal costs on top of medical
bills.
   Mr. Crovitz should review the article published in this
newspaper on May 15, 1986, by James L. Gattuso of the
conservative Heritage Foundation. Mr. Gattuso demonstrates
that far from encouraging frivolous filings, as Mr. Crovitz
argues, the contingency-fee system actually screens out
baseless suits. Since plaintiff attorneys get paid only upon
winning, they have no incentive to file or drag out
insignificant lawsuits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The contingency-fee system and the absence of draconian
measures such as the "English rule" have served to make our
civil-justice system the global model for emerging
democracies throughout the world. At least the sick and
injured have a chance for justice here. The same can't be
said for citizens of most other nations.
   Joanne Doroshow
   Bhopal Justice Campaign
   Santa Monica, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Librarians Undaunted
   By Myriad Data Bases
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A25
</SO>
<LP>
   In your April 3 article "Research Firm Taps Oceans of Data
to Bail Out Clients," you say that with the number of data
bases soaring, "greater expertise is required to master all
the possibilities for harvesting data."
   Members of our association are trained to master the
possibilities. That is our raison d'etre. Our members hold
degrees not only in library science but also in their field
of specialization. When it comes to harvesting data, we are
the cream of the crop. And we're pretty good weeders too --
weeding out "irrelevant information."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A recent survey conducted in cooperation with the
management-consulting firm Temple, Barker &amp; Sloane revealed
that nearly 90% of the senior-level managers in the 164
companies surveyed felt their librarians were delivering
effective service, and nearly 80% agreed that librarians were
responding to changing needs of companies. None of the
respondents saw a decrease in the impact of the library on
business. Hardly supportive of the statement that "in-house
libraries might be slimmed or eliminated."
   Perhaps the reason the ad executive mentioned in the
article had such a long wait for information and subsequently
turned to the information broker was that the firm's New York
library had closed years prior to the start of his search --
a fact uncovered by one of our members minutes after she read
the article.
   Muriel Regan
   President
   Special Libraries Association
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Money-Fund Investors Hunt for
   New Places to Park Their Cash
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Lots of money-market mutual fund investors are looking for
someplace else to park their cash these days. The question
is: where?
   Last year at this time, when money-fund yields were
pushing 10% after rising steadily for about a year, more than
$1 billion a week was flowing into the funds. But in the past
six weeks, more than $8 billion has flowed out of money
funds, and for good reasons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While average money-fund yields have stayed just under 8%
for more than three months, interest rates in general have
gone up and headed back down. The temporary rise made yields
on some other investments more attractive than money funds.
Now, with rates headed lower, moving into other investments
offers a chance to lock in today's yields for months or even
years to come.
   Although no one's suggesting that investors pull all, or
even most, of their cash out of money funds, many financial
advisers do say this is a good time to at least consider
other things as well.
   "You have to segment" your assets, says Kurt Brouwer of
San Francisco investment advisers Brouwer &amp; Janachowski. "Ask
yourself, `How much do I need to keep liquid, and how much
can I afford to lock in for a little longer?'"
   Financial professionals generally recommend keeping the
equivalent of three months of living expenses in some kind of
liquid account to cover unexpected illness or other
emergencies. There's also an argument for keeping a certain
amount of cash on hand to take advantage of unexpected
investment opportunities. For those purposes, money funds
look pretty good. Their average yield of 7.96% is more than a
full percentage point better than the 6.63% average on
money-market deposit accounts at major banks.
   Some of the cash coming out of money funds is undoubtedly
going into the stock market. After all, the long-term average
return on stocks has been about 10% a year. But the
short-term risk in stocks can be great, and money-fund
investors tend to be risk-averse. Typically, they prefer the
stability of fixed-income investments, the comparative
liquidity of bond mutual funds and the safety of securities
backed by the U.S. government.
   Here's a look at some of the alternatives:
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: These are a popular alternative
to money funds because federal deposit insurance makes them
particularly safe. There are usually steep penalties for
early withdrawal, however, so most money-fund investors would
probably opt for the shortest terms. To get a yield better
than 8% from a bank generally requires at least a one-year
commitment.
   In some parts of the country, however, depositors can do
that well or better on terms as short as three months. In
Narragansett, R.I., for instance, Pier Bank offers 8.75% for
three months. A six-month CD at Connecticut Bank &amp; Trust Co.
in Hartford yields 9%.
   "If you're going to be moving out of money funds into CDs,
this is a good time," says Edward D. McCarthy, a financial
planner in Providence, R.I. "The market in this part of the
country is as hot as I've seen it in years."
   One option for investors considering CDs is buying them
from a major brokerage firm. According to Banxquote Money
Markets, a New York information service, the average yield on
a six-month broker-sold CD is 8.37%. The CDs are actually
issued by banks and thrifts and are insured; the brokerage
firms negotiate rates with the banks and thrifts whose CDs
they sell.
   Because many big brokerage firms maintain a secondary, or
resale, market in the CDs they sell, investors concerned
about liquidity can buy a two-year CD, with an average yield
of 8.95% at the firms surveyed by Banxquote, and sell it
later if they need the money.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: T-bills, which are backed by the U.S.
government, come in maturities of three, six and 12 months.
The six-month bill, which yielded 8.10% at yesterday's weekly
Treasury auction, offers a slightly better yield than the
average money fund; the one-year bill is even better,
currently yielding just under 8.2%. And T-bills are exempt
from state and local taxes.
   T-bills, however, require a minimum investment of $10,000.
A few money funds have no minimum-investment requirement, and
many let investors get started with as little as $500.
   Buying Treasurys through a bank or broker, which usually
charge a $50 to $100 fee, reduces the yield. But Treasury
securities can be purchased directly at no fee through the
Federal Reserve Bank by mail or in person.
   Investors willing to lock up their money for a while can
get better yields. A 10-year Treasury note, for instance, is
currently yielding close to 8.6% and requires a minimum
investment of just $1,000. "I'd want to be high quality at
this point," says Lewis J. Altfest, a New York investment
manager. "Close to 9% a year compares pretty favorably to
equities."
                                                                                                       

   SHORT-TERM BOND FUNDS: Bond funds offer investors a way to
participate in the somewhat higher yields available in the
bond market without sacrificing the diversification and
liquidity of a mutual fund. But bond-fund prices do
fluctuate, so investors should think in terms of "total
return," which includes price changes as well as interest
payments.
   Money-fund investors may prefer short-term bond funds,
which invest in securities with maturities of one to five
years. Their prices are less volatile than longer-term bonds.
The 9.04% average yield on investment-grade short-term bond
funds at the end of March was more than a full percentage
point higher than on money funds. The total return over the
preceding 12 months was 9.32%.
   Intermediate-term funds, with maturities of five to 10
years, looked even better over the past year. According to
Lipper Analytical Services, the total return for the 12
months through March 31 was 9.65%. The average yield at the
end of March was 8.62%.
   "Most of the time, I'd rather take my risk where I'm
getting paid for it, either in equities or long-term bonds,"
says Michael A. Lipper, president of Lipper Analytical. "For
the last year or so, you've been better off in short or
intermediate term."
   For investors in high tax brackets who want to stay in
money funds, tax-exempt funds may be the way to go right now.
The average yield on tax-exempt money funds is currently
5.74%, which translates into a taxable-equivalent yield of
8.57% for an investor paying taxes at a 33% rate.
   There are state tax-exempt funds, too, that are
particularly attractive to investors in high-tax states like
California, Massachusetts and New York. For New York
investors paying 36% of their income in taxes, for instance,
a 5.5% yield on a tax-free fund would be equal to a taxable
yield of 8.59%.
   Yields on tax-free funds aren't always higher than taxable
funds, however. They tend to fluctuate more because they are
influenced by the supply of tax-exempt securities.
   There is the view among some financial professionals that,
tax-free or taxable, money funds aren't a bad place to be
when the interest rate outlook is uncertain. "Money funds are
a decision not to bet," says Lynn Hopewell, a financial
planner in Falls Church, Va. "If you're talking megabucks,
that's one thing. If you've got a few hundred thousand, I
don't think a sliver of a point makes that much difference."
   ---
                     What Money Earns
                                                                                                       

                    Some current yields
                                                                                                       

           Money-market mutual funds     7.96%
           One-year bank CDs             8.08%
           One-year Treasury bills       8.19%
           30-year Treasury bonds        8.58%

                                                                                                       

   *As of March 31, 1990
                                                                                                       

   Source: Donoghue Organization, Lipper Analytical Services,
Banxquote Money Markets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor --
   Safeway Debt and Net:
   Take a Closer Look
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A25
</SO>
<CO>
   X.SAF
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your April 2 Heard on the Street column about the proposed
Safeway Stores public offering was disturbing.
   Your main points were: that some prospective investors
find Safeway's debt load and "lack of earnings" disturbing;
and that others dislike the involvement of Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The first of these points was presented so devoid of
context as to make it laughable. When compared with the cash
flow that will have to support it, Safeway's debt load is
significantly smaller than that of Kroger, another large
(sales of $19 billion) public supermarket company. And when
it comes to earnings, Safeway is at least making a net
profit. You imply that Safeway's prospective P-E multiple of
36 is astronomical. To put this in context, neither Kroger
nor Vons (also a public supermarket company, sales of $5
billion) boasts any P-E multiple at all, because both are
still reporting net losses. Compared with these two perfectly
respectable supermarket companies, Safeway looks a steal at
36 times.
   I make no claims about KKR's treatment of bondholders in
any one of its deals. But if reporters want to run anti-KKR
stories, they should do so in the open, not by sly hints and
suggestions.
   Peter Morris
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Community Standards Elevated
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   In a time-worn routine of New York City life, each day a
multitude descends the steep and long staircases and
mechanical escalators to wait on narrow and crowded platforms
bounded by dark tunnels and high-power electrical rails. . .
.
   The subway is not a domain of the privileged and powerful.
Rather, it is the primary means of transportation for
literally millions of people of modest means, including
hard-working men and women, students and elderly pensioners
who live in and around New York City and who are dependent on
the subway for the conduct of their daily affairs. They are
the bulk of the subway's patronage, and the City has an
obvious interest in providing them with a reasonably safe,
propitious and benign means of public transportation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With these words, federal appeals judges in New York last
week renounced the idea that there is a constitutional right
to panhandle in subways. District Court Judge Leonard Sand
had established that right in an earlier ruling. The appeals
court said, in essence, that communities of people have
interests that must be balanced against rights alleged for
individuals. New York is not about to become the City of Good
Manners, but a recognition that government has some right to
protect citizens is a big step toward rediscovering civilized
behavior.
   The court's ruling comes as New York teeters on the edge
of some Hobbesian jungle, where the idea of standards of
acceptable behavior begins to sound like a bad joke. Anxious
crowds wait outside a Brooklyn courthouse to see if the legal
system is capable of convicting someone for the brutal
killing of a young black man, Yusuf Hawkins, in the white
neighborhood of Bensonhurst. Over the weekend, near the
neighborhood where some Korean grocers are being boycotted, a
group of blacks mistook three Vietnamese immigrants for
Koreans and decided to beat them.
   As every visitor knows, the subways are a special case.
"Begging in the subway," Federal Appeals Judge Frank Altimari
wrote, "often amounts to nothing less than assault, creating
in the passengers the apprehension of imminent danger." Judge
Altimari emphasized in the opinion for the Second Circuit
that the issue is not the First Amendment, but what society
can do to protect its members. He referred to Transit
Authority studies that indicate passengers find panhandlers
threatening, harassing and inherently aggressive.
   Nor is there any reason to draw the line between free
speech and intimidation only after a panhandler pulls a
knife. The appeals court said the ban on begging must not be
viewed "from the imaginary heights of Mount Olympus . . .
lest a rigid, mechanistic application of some legal doctrine
gainsays the common good." The decision added that the lower
court had an "exacerbated deference to the alleged individual
rights of beggars and panhandlers to the great detriment of
the common good."
   These are strong words, and it's hard to miss the appeals
court's tone of impatience with Judge Sand's earlier ruling
(though it is nothing compared with what many beleaguered
subway riders said the morning after that decision). We think
the appeals judges chose their words carefully and with a
purpose. They wanted to send a strong message to the activist
Judge Sand, who also has been much in the news for attempting
to engineer the public-housing policies of Yonkers, N.Y.
   The appeals court detailed how Judge Sand had essentially
arranged the subway case so that he could issue a broad
ruling creating a new right. "Not satisfied with the scope of
the original controversy," the appeals court wrote, Judge
Sand's court "directed that the complaint be amended on
numerous occasions." On its own, Judge Sand's court contacted
the New York Attorney General, and after he declined to
intervene, the court made him a party to the case so that an
anti-loitering law would be at issue. "It instructed that
over a dozen defendants be added, and that the class be
enlarged to include all needy persons in New York State."
   The subway begging case raises other questions about
courts and the common good. The idea that city authorities
have no power to ban begging of this type suggests how the
common life of cities deterioriated the past 30 years.
   The courts have all but outlawed vagrancy laws as
unconstitutional, crippling the police effort to stop drug
sales on the street and in public parks. Courts tilt the
balance away from community interests by excluding evidence
of crimes from trials when a lawyer can find a technical
problem with a search warrant. Communities now endure
convicts back among them on the streets because judges
decided that jails were "unreasonably" crowded. In New York,
Washington, Detroit, Los Angeles and elsewhere, neighborhoods
have become the criminals' punching bags.
   It is true that there will always be some conflict between
community interests and individual rights. There is no
reason, however, for the Constitution to become a tool in the
service of anarchy. The Preamble itself declares that one
reason We the People ordained and established a Constitution
in the first place is to "insure domestic tranquility."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager Switch
   For $3 Billion
   In Partnerships
   ----
   By Jill Bettner and Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   IRE SM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Investors in nearly $3 billion of real estate limited
partnerships are likely to see management control of them
change hands in coming months.
   Integrated Resources Inc., Southmark Corp. and
Consolidated Capital Equities Corp., which are all operating
under federal bankruptcy protection, plan to sell their
general-partner interests in a total of 242 partnerships.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Buyers will acquire the sponsors' rights to millions of
dollars in future management fees. They will also get other
assets, including loans to the partnerships and equity
interests in their properties.
   None of the three sponsors has contacted the thousands of
individuals who invested in the syndications as limited
partners to tell them about the sales. Integrated disclosed
its plans in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing. But
Southmark and Consolidated Capital say it would be premature
for them to do so, even though both companies say they have
had preliminary discussions with potential buyers.
   A change in management control could be a blessing for
investors in some troubled partnerships. Although the
Integrated partnerships are healthy, analysts say, some of
the Southmark and Consolidated Capital partnerships aren't.
Strong new management could provide the resources to address
at least some of the problems.
   But while all three sponsors say they will seek
experienced, qualified buyers with the goal of maximizing the
value of the partnerships' assets, there are no guarantees.
The syndicators' own immediate interest is in getting the
highest bid for the assets to pay off bankruptcy creditors.
   Moreover, while investors will be directly affected by any
management changes, some may not even be given a chance to
express an opinion.
   Dallas-based Consolidated Capital's bankruptcy judge has
ordered the company to seek investors' approval of their new
general partner by proxy solicitation. But New York-based
Integrated says it doesn't plan to ask investors to approve
the buyer it recommends to the bankruptcy court.
   Whether Southmark's investors have a say will vary, the
company says, depending on the offers it gets. The company,
which is based in Dallas, adds that some of its partnership
agreements, which are the legal contracts between general
partners and limited partners, may require a vote depending
on how control of the partnership changes hands.
   Partnership analysts, industry officials and even
potential buyers say investors should be more involved in the
process. While general partners typically own just 1% of a
partnership, effectively they run the show. "Legally, they
have huge discretion," to make practically all the decisions,
says Spencer Jefferies, a Dallas partnership analyst who
first reported Southmark's planned sale in his newsletter.
   Any time a partnership changes hands, much of the cost is
paid by the partnership and, thus, by the investors, says
Chicago lawyer and consultant Laura Ricciardelli. "Like the
wind-down and start-up phases of any business, these
transitions are extremely expensive," she says.
   Unlike stockholders in public companies who can protest a
management change by selling their shares, limited partners
have few alternatives. Partnerships are long-term
investments, which typically require investors to lock up
their money for seven to 10 years. Investors who want out
before then generally have to resort to an informal resale
market, where most partnership interests sell at steep
discounts from their original offering prices.
   A variety of potential suitors are seeking control of all
three sponsors' partnerships. They include other syndicators,
as well as present or former executives of the companies.
Bankruptcy lawyers say they expect proxy fights over many
partnerships to develop between competing bidders.
   The huge sales come at a time when many other syndicators,
whose business boomed through the mid-1980s, are now
troubled. If the sales are successful, analysts predict there
will be more. Integrated itself has interests in more than
600 partnerships, only four of which are involved in the
planned sales.
   Integrated is selling its interests in four of its large
public offerings, American Insured Mortgage Investors, sold
in the 1980s. The partnerships, which hold federally insured
mortgages, raised $789 million from 66,000 investors.
   Southmark is offering its interests in 222 partnerships,
most of which were private syndications sold to wealthy
individuals. The partnerships were marketed under such
banners as Southmark/Envicon, McNeil, University and
Southmark Capital starting in the late 1970s. The company's
management interests in the syndications are being sold
together with $240 million of loans the partnerships owe
Southmark. The company values them at $35 million because
many are delinquent.
   Another 175,000 investors who put $1.1 billion into 16
public partnerships sponsored by Consolidated Capital, a
former Southmark affiliate, are facing their fourth change in
general partners in the past five years. Three of the
partnerships sold in the early 1980s strictly hold mortgages,
while the rest own apartments and offices. Some are sick and
some aren't, says Boe Martin, the company's bankruptcy
lawyer.
   Bankruptcy attorneys say they expect the sales to help
define the rights of limited partners, which today are often
unclear and only get murkier if the general partner is
insolvent.
   For instance, New York Judge Howard C. Buschman III gave
Integrated the choice of involving investors in its sale,
declining to address that issue. The Investment Partnership
Association, a Washington, D.C., trade group protested that
the ruling could set a bad precedent.
   Stephen D. Weinroth, Integrated's chairman, says "we've
put provisions in to protect" investors, including hiring an
outsider to review offers submitted in a formal,
court-approved auction. It was designed to "make it
difficult" for somebody "trying to start a proxy battle,
where we would get a lot less," says Mr. Weinroth. He adds
that Integrated thought investors might have rejected its
choice of a new general partner and that the partnership
agreements don't require investor approval of a change.
   Consolidated Capital's attorney Mr. Martin says the
company had intended to consult limited partners "through a
modified disclosure statement," but its bankruptcy Judge
Steven A. Felsenthal felt that wasn't enough.
   Judge Felsenthal is also supervising Southmark's
bankruptcy and must approve a sale of its general-partner
interests. As most of those are private partnerships,
however, "he might render the opposite result," and not
require an investor vote, says Mr. Martin.
   ---
   Karen Blumenthal in Dallas contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   MCA Views
   Top Creator
   Of Cartoons
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   SP MCA GACC AFINP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   UNIVERSAL CITY, Calif. -- MCA Inc. wants to build a new
part of its business on Bedrock, not to mention Jellystone
Park.
   According to individuals close to the company, MCA is in
discussions to acquire Hanna-Barbera Productions, the cartoon
company that created the Flintstones and their Bedrock
friends, along with Yogi Bear, Huckleberry Hound, the
Jetsons, Scooby Doo and other characters.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Great American Communications Co., which owns
Hanna-Barbera, declined to comment, as did MCA executives.
Executives close to the situation cautioned that talks were
very preliminary and that a deal was far from concluded.
However, Great American is known to be cash strapped and
Great American executives are scheduled to be in Los Angeles
this week and are to meet with MCA officials.
   MCA's reported interest reflects a mad rush by
entertainment giants to tie up with well-known fantasy
characters for use in making and marketing movies, TV shows,
theme park attractions and consumer merchandise.
   MCA already has a close relationship with the animation
studio: It has a Hanna-Barbera attraction at its new
Universal Studios Florida theme park and is co-producing and
distributing "Jetsons: The Movie," a feature-length cartoon
coming out July 6. Similarly, a Flintstones movie is in
development at MCA's Universal Pictures. In addition, many
Hanna-Barbera cartoons air on USA Network, 50%-owned by MCA.
Finally, Hanna-Barbera's newly appointed president is David
Kirschner, the executive producer of MCA's animated movie "An
American Tail."
   Owning Hanna-Barbera would help MCA compete with Walt
Disney Co., which last year added the Muppets to its stable
of characters, and Time Warner Inc., which has been promoting
Bugs Bunny's 50th Anniversary and licensing Looney Tunes
characters to endorse products. Meanwhile, Time Warner bought
a 19.5% stake in the Six Flags theme park chain, which uses
the Warner characters.
   An industry executive likened the interest in
Hanna-Barbera to MCA's acquisition of Geffen Records for $550
million in stock earlier this year. "You get to be a serious
player overnight, and you're not going to get there by making
`An American Tail' and `The Land Before Time' every two
years," referring to MCA's last two animated movies. The
executive added that like Geffen, which was the last major
independent record company, Hanna-Barbera is one of the few
well-known cartoon franchises in existence that kids and
their parents both know.
   Cincinnati-based Great American, controlled by investor
Carl Lindner since he acquired Taft Broadcasting in 1987, is
laboring under a junk-bond debt load. Its long-term debt was
$1.19 billion at the end of last year, and a $165 million
payment is due in October. Last week, it was disclosed the
company was looking for a buyer for its radio stations. Great
American is 61%-owned by Mr. Lindner's American Financial
Corp.
   A report yesterday in the trade newspaper Variety said
Merrill Lynch had prepared a prospectus offering the
company's entertainment units for $700 million to $1 billion:
Aside from Hanna-Barbera, these include a 48.6% stake in
Spelling Entertainment, which has a library including
"Dynasty," "Charlie's Angels" and other programs, Worldvision
Enterprises Inc., a distribution company owned by Spelling,
and Ruby Spears Enterprises, a smaller animation company.
Spelling has been on the block since last fall.
   Hanna-Barbera, founded in 1957 by William Hanna and Joseph
Barbera, is "the jewel of the enterprise," says Paul C.
Marsh, an analyst with Bateman Eichler Hill Richards. He
places the value of the cartoon studio at about $300 million
and the rest of Great American's entertainment assets at $500
million. Mr. Marsh said he believes Great American had hoped
to hold on to Hanna-Barbera and let it appreciate, but that
the debt pressure became too intense. Lisbeth R. Barron,
research vice president at S.G. Warburg &amp; Co., values
Hanna-Barbera at about $200 million.
   MCA also could use Hanna-Barbera's current production
facilities to create TV cartoons. The company recently hired
a former Hanna-Barbera senior vice president, Jeff Segal, to
start a children's entertainment division. News Corp.'s Fox
Inc., Disney and Warner have been actively accelerating their
production of television cartoons.
   One possible complication to the acquisition is that most
of the Hanna-Barbera library is encumbered by existing
distribution agreements. MCA's world-wide distribution
machinery would have to wait for these agreements to expire
or buy them out, a possibility since Worldvision has most of
these contracts.
   A Hanna-Barbera spokeswoman confirmed that the Great
American executives would be in Los Angeles but said the trip
was for routine operational meetings.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications

   PAUL C. MARSH, an analyst at Bateman Eichler, Hill
Richards Inc., places the value of Hanna-Barbera Productions
Inc. at about $300 million, and the rest of Great American
Communications Co.'s entertainment assets at about $200
million. Yesterday's edition misstated the latter figure.
   (WSJ May 16, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   `Hatch 22'
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   "Catch 22" is a famous metaphor for a bad deal -- for
example, you can't get a job without experience, but you
can't get experience without a job. Congress is now trying to
create what a few wags are calling a "Hatch 22" -- federal
employees will be allowed to wage partisan politics but still
be protected by civil-service laws.
   In other words, a typical Washington deal, good for
everyone except taxpayers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That about sums up the current effort to amend the Hatch
Act, the 1939 law that bars the three-million-strong federal
work force from partisan politics. The Senate voted 67-30
last week to all but repeal the act's political curbs, and
the House passed a similar bill last year. President Bush has
promised a veto, but an override vote will be close.
   No one wants to deny federal workers the basic rights of
citizenship. They can vote as they like. But repealing the
Hatch Act would allow employees to become full-fledged
partisans -- raising money, running for office,
electioneering, organizing political-action committees.
Indeed, this is precisely the plan of the public-employee
unions that are driving the bill. Their leaders are
frustrated that the Hatch Act limits their political clout.
The presidents of three unions were suspended for 60 days
under Hatch for openly supporting Walter Mondale in 1984.
   If the Hatch curbs are dumped, these unions will become
giant lobbies for their own self-interest, which is to say
for a bigger state. Somehow the idea persists in Washington
that serious policy should be turned over to "disinterested"
career civil servants. For relying mainly on political
appointees, Attorney General Dick Thornburgh is getting heat
from all over, only last week for disagreeing with his deputy
who was representing the career staff's point of view.
   But political appointees are at least subject to politics
-- to presidential elections. An un-Hatched civil service
will get the best of both worlds, both the right to play
politics and protection from voters. Thus insulated, this
force will soon conspire with the other nearly permanent
branch of government, the Congress and its staff. Voting will
mean even less than it does now.
   Civil libertarians should also be worried, since Hatch
repeal would create big new opportunities for state coercion.
Do Americans really want the same people who audit taxes or
deliver the mail to hit them up for campaign gifts? It's
worth recalling that the Hatch Act was passed in response to
reports that New Deal foremen were strong-arming workers to
help re-elect a Kentucky Senator.
   The only way to protect civil servants from harassment is
to shield them from partisan politics altogether. Only a
total ban gives employees a plausible excuse for not becoming
political. Without such a ban, an employee will always feel
pressure, however subtle, to favor the boss's or union's
cause. Federal workers themselves seem to understand this;
polls have shown significant employee concern about Hatch
repeal.
   If the unions want to politicize the civil service, then
at least let's go all the way. Let's bring back the old
"spoils system" and make everything political. When everyone
was a political appointee, at least voters had the chance to
throw the bums out every four years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Waring &amp; LaRosa Scores Again,
   Picking Up Fisher-Price Work
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   OAT F.PRR OMCM WPPGY SAA
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Waring &amp; LaRosa, a tiny New York ad agency that just last
year seemed near death's door, continued its startling
turnaround by picking up more than $20 million in
Fisher-Price toys business.
   Fisher-Price, a unit of Quaker Oats, said it would
consolidate all of its domestic consumer advertising with
Waring &amp; LaRosa, which already handles its $12 million infant
toys account. According to Leading National Advertisers,
Fisher-Price spent $36.7 million on advertising in 1989, but
industry executives said it is spending less this year,
reflecting lower toy sales.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The account had been split between Waring & LaRosa; Backer
Spielvogel Bates, which had the $15 million to $20 million
traditional toy account for toddlers; and J. Walter
Thompson's Chicago office, which created ads for promotional
products, an account billing just under $5 million.
   The Fisher-Price victory is the latest in a string of new
accounts for Waring &amp; LaRosa. In March, Perrier -- which
fired the ad agency in 1986 -- brought back its $8 million to
$10 million account to the shop to help with Perrier's
relaunch. Variations of an early 1980s Waring spot, featuring
a cartoon caveman discovering "the earth's first soft drink,"
are airing now. The Progresso sauce and Sunshine biscuit
accounts also signed on in the past six months.
   The agency also is a contender for the Heublein account,
including Finlandia vodka and Jose Cuervo tequila. And it was
a finalist in the hotly contested Reebok account, which
ultimately was awarded to Hill, Holliday, Connors,
Cosmopulos. Waring &amp; LaRosa, which by last fall had shrunk to
less than $50 million in billings, now bills well over $70
million, says Joseph LaRosa, chairman and creative director.
   The ad agency's winning streak is that much more
surprising considering how rocky its history has been over
the past few years. The agency, formed by partners Saul
Waring and Mr. LaRosa in 1968, quickly developed a hot
creative reputation, as did some others formed around the
same time, such as Scali, McCabe, Sloves. But Waring &amp;
LaRosa's fortunes took a turn for the worse in the early
1980s after it sold itself to BBDO, which subsequently became
part of the Omnicom Group.
   Soon after BBDO bought it, Waring's largest client,
Chesebrough-Pond's, pulled almost all of its account,
including the Aziza cosmetics, Cutex nail products, and
Prince tennis racket accounts. Fisher-Price, another major
client, pulled a big piece of its account next, with the
final blow coming when Perrier fired the agency.
   Meanwhile, attempts to win new business seemed blocked at
every turn, because almost every product category was already
handled by Omnicom's bigger ad units. Waring &amp; LaRosa had
lengthy discussions with Porsche, and received a letter of
interest from Jaguar, but couldn't take on a car account
because of bigger automotive accounts elsewhere within
Omnicom. "Every time we turned around we had a conflict," Mr.
LaRosa says.
   As a result, Waring, which billed $100 million when BBDO
bought it, billed just $50 million by early last year, when
it bought back its independence. Going it alone, though, at
first seemed just as miserable. Last November, Waring again
lost its largest account when Ragu, which at its height had
billed over $20 million, fired the agency.
   Since then, though, the agency has had a Phoenix-like
rise. Mr. LaRosa attributes the wave of new business to the
agency's emphasis on building brands, and to the fact that,
finally, it isn't saddled with conflicts.
   "Clients are starting to look for people like us. The
companies coming to us are packaged goods companies that want
good creative work," Mr. LaRosa says. "We think we've
overcome the odds."
   The Fisher-Price consolidation came as a shock to Backer
Spielvogel Bates. Backer attributed the move to a management
change in Fisher-Price's marketing department. David Fisher,
who had been executive vice president of North American
operations, resigned several weeks ago, and his advertising
duties were taken over by Strawn Cathcart, vice president of
marketing. Quaker recently announced plans to spin off
Fisher-Price.
   "The loss . . . came as a total surprise," a Backer
spokeswoman said. "The decision was certainly not a
reflection of the quality of our work . . . which has always
been superior, but a change in marketing management at
Fisher-Price." Backer continues to handle Fisher-Price's
advertising in Europe.
   Mr. Cathcart said the toy company decided to consolidate
at Waring &amp; LaRosa because the agency, which first took on
the account in 1969 when Fisher-Price was a small regional
company, helped build its national presence almost from
scratch. "We're going back to basics," Mr. Cathcart said,
"and we feel very comfortable putting our image into the
hands of the people who developed the business."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   FILM ADVERTISING: Spot television and the broadcast TV
networks posted the biggest dollar gains in the ad budgets of
U.S. film distributors in 1989, according to an analysis by
Blair Television. Spot TV spending last year jumped 15% to
$180 million, up from $156 million. Network ad spending by
the major film companies increased 14% to $207 million, up
from $181 million in 1988. Newspaper ad spending edged up to
$149 million from $147 million a year earlier.
                                                                                                       

   MERGER: DDB Needham, an Omnicom Group agency, said it
reached an agreement to merge Broucc DDB Needham, its office
in Milan, Italy, with Verba, another shop in Milan. The
agency, which will have billings of $100 million, will be
called Verba DDB Needham. Terms weren't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pennsylvania Bill Would Bar Insurers
   Who Quit Auto Market From Other Lines
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   AET SAFC HGIC
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   HARRISBURG, Pa. -- Two state senators proposed legislation
that would bar insurers from selling new policies in all
other insurance lines if they decided to pull out of the auto
insurance business in Pennsylvania.
   There are also plans to amend an antitrust statute, being
considered by the state senate judiciary committee, removing
a current partial exemption for the insurance industry.
Pennsylvania is the only state without an antitrust law.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, Pennsylvania's fight to keep auto insurers from
bailing out of the state was dealt a blow when a state court
judge ruled last Friday that current Pennsylvania law doesn't
prevent an insurer from pulling out of the auto-insurance
market if staying costs the company more money than it would
make.
   The measure unveiled yesterday is designed to block three
insurers who sent nonrenewal notices to their auto insurance
policyholders in Pennsylvania. The proposed bill is similar
to a Massachusetts law that's being challenged in federal
court by Aetna Life &amp; Casualty Co., which claims it's
unconstitutional.
   A new auto insurance bill, signed into law in February,
requires premium rate rollbacks of 10% and as much as 22%, if
drivers choose a no-fault provision limiting their right to
sue. The measure proposed yesterday would be retroactive to
Jan. 1. The bill will be introduced in the senate later this
week.
   Auto insurers "who have pulled the rug out from under
Pennsylvania motorists should not be doing other new business
in the state," said State Senator Stewart J. Greenleaf, one
of the two sponsors of the new bill. If losing new business
in all their other insurance lines isn't enough of a
deterrent to keep auto insurers in Pennsylvania, then Sen.
Greenleaf said he would ask the legislature to bar companies
from all other business in this state.
   Aetna is one of the three insurers who want to pull out of
the auto insurance market. It said that the rate rollbacks
ordered by the new auto insurance law would force it to lose
about $20 million over the next 12 months. The Hartford,
Conn.-based company is the fifth-largest insurer working in
Pennsylvania, with 200,000 policyholders.
   Harleysville Mutual Insurance Co. and a unit of Safeco
Corp. have also sent nonrenewal notices to their
policyholders in Pennsylvania. They also claim the rollback
would hurt them.
   Officials at Harleysville and Safeco couldn't comment
until they'd reviewed a copy of the proposed legislation.
Aetna couldn't be reached.
   In ruling on a suit brought by Harleysville against the
state insurance commissioner, a Commonwealth Court said if an
insurer sustains "a signficant loss if they continue to issue
private passenger automobile insurance policies, that's "a
good reason" for nonrenewals.
   The state insurance department immediately appealed the
ruling to the state supreme court. Some state officials fear
a mass exodus by auto insurers if the lower court decision is
upheld.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Airgas Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ARG
</CO>
<LP>
   AIRGAS Inc. (Wilmington, Del.) -- Michael T. Kennedy,
chief financial officer of this natural gas distribution
company, resigned, effective June 1. Mr. Kennedy, 35 years
old, is leaving to form his own investment company. Britton
H. Murdoch, 33-year-old vice president of corporate
development, will act as interim chief financial officer
while the company searches for a permanent replacement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tucson Electric Wins
   Power-Sales Dispute
   Against San Diego Gas
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   SDO TEP
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   TUCSON, Ariz. -- Tucson Electric Power Co. said that an
arbitration panel ruled that the company didn't breach
certain terms of a power-sales contract with San Diego Gas &amp;
Electric Co. and won't be required to refund $57 million in
disputed payments to the California utility.
   The arbitration proceeding was begun in 1988 and the
finding cannot be appealed. The dispute arose over sales of
power by Tucson Electric to San Diego Gas between June 1987
and May 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The dispute centered on the scheduling of available power
by Tucson Electric to San Diego Gas. San Diego Gas asserted
that Tucson had imposed scheduling restrictions that breached
the purchase contract.
   San Diego Gas also contended that Tucson Electric didn't
meet its contractual obligations in terms of power capacity
provided to San Diego Gas.
   James Walsh, an attorney for San Diego G&amp;E, said the two
companies had filed lawsuits over the disputed power sales
but had dropped the litigation and instead agreed to abide by
the decision of the arbitration panel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ultimate Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   ULT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ULTIMATE Corp. (East Hanover, N.J.) -- The
computer-systems marketer named Thomas F. Perry president of
the newly created Systems division. Reporting to Michael J.
O'Donnell, chairman and president, the 46-year-old Mr. Perry
will oversee relations with Ultimate's dealers and end users
of its systems. He formerly was Ultimate's senior vice
president of world-wide sales operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Fabri-Centers of America Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FCA
</CO>
<LP>
   FABRI-CENTERS OF AMERICA Inc. (Cleveland) -- James Monro
Jr., executive vice president, was named to the new post of
chief operating officer of this chain of 621 fabric stores.
Mr. Monro, 40 years old, will be responsible for store
operations, in addition to his existing duties for
merchandising, advertising and merchandise allocation. Robert
Norton, 43, executive vice president and chief financial
officer, was named to the new post of chief administrative
officer. Mr. Norton's responsibilities now include physical
distribution and human resources along with his existing
responsibilities of management information systems,
accounting, internal audit and financial services, the
company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Partnership Investors' Suit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   ACP IRE
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Investors in a New York real estate
partnership filed suit, seeking to block the sale of the
partnership and to obtain more control over management.
   Oppenheimer &amp; Bigelow Income Fund I and Edge Partners
filed suit in Delaware Chancery Court against American Real
Estate Partners and American Property Investors. API's
parent, Integrated Resources Inc., is operating under the
federal bankruptcy laws and, according to a March 30
Securities and Exchange Commission filing, plans to sell its
interest in API "within the next several months."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plaintiffs seek to review the books, records and
accounting of AREP, a master limited partnership, because of
increases in general and administrative expenses of the
general partner, API.
   The partners are also seeking a declaratory judgment to
block the sale of AREP by API without the consent of a
majority of the limited partners. Charles H. Jones Jr. a
limited partner said he and other limited partners are
interested in converting AREP into a real estate investment
trust.
   The conversion would eliminate the need for a general
partner and provide direct management of AREP by a management
firm retained by the limited partners.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NASD Authorities
   Cancel Membership
   Of Wellshire Securities
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The National Association of Securities
Dealers said it canceled the membership of Wellshire
Securities Inc., a penny-stock firm based in New York.
   The cancellation followed a preliminary injunction granted
by a federal court in Manhattan in April at the request of
the Securities and Exchange Commission. In March, the SEC
filed a civil suit alleging that Wellshire and its executives
made false and misleading statements about the stocks they
were promoting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The SEC complaint said that from June 1988 to the present,
Wellshire, under the direction of Robert Cohen and Carol
Martino, has operated a penny-stock "boiler room," selling
speculative over-the-counter securities to the public through
the use of abusive sales practices and inflated price
predictions.
   "Wellshire and Cohen and Martino haven't been given the
benefit of a full trial," said Mitchell Lampert, an attorney
for the executives. "But the damage has already been done."
Wellshire and the two executives previously have denied any
wrongdoing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Security Pacific Corp.:
   Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Acquires
   5% Interest in Firm's Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   SPC J.MUB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Security Pacific Corp. said in Los Angeles that Mitsui
Taiyo Kobe Bank Ltd. completed its purchase of a 5% interest
in Security's financial services subsidiary.
   The Japanese concern paid $85 million for the interest and
will maintain the option of lifting its stake in Security
Pacific Financial Services System Inc. to 10%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, Security Pacific's main banking unit said it
acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of
Washington Savings &amp; Loan Association, Stockton, Calif.
Security Pacific National Bank said it concluded the plan
with the Resolution Trust Corp., the agency in charge of
disposing of the assets of failed thrifts. Washington Savings
has four branches and more than 7,000 customers, the company
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- J.C. Penney Co.:
   Workstation Sales Systems
   To Be Bought From NCR
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   JCP NCR
</CO>
<LP>
   J.C. Penney Co., Dallas, said it will purchase from NCR
Corp., Dayton, Ohio, more than $45 million in point-of-sale
workstation systems this year as part of a three-year project
to upgrade terminals in about 1,400 stores nationwide.
   Penney began the project last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The companies said the new system, among other things,
allows Penney to replace the traditional charge slip with a
single sales slip printed by the computer and signed by the
customer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sudbury Inc.:
   British Firm Boosts Interest
   To 9.2% of Common Stock
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.SRE SUDS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Suter PLC of England said it raised its stake in Sudbury
Inc., of Cleveland, to 9.2% of the common shares outstanding.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Suter said it holds 1,180,000 Sudbury shares through its
Longform Ltd. unit, including 160,000 shares bought from
April 10 to last Thursday for $3.25 to $3.75 each.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Officials at Sudbury, which makes metal, plastic and
rubber industrial parts, lubricants and equipment, couldn't
immediately be reached.
   Last August, Suter disclosed it held a 5.9% stake in
Sudbury and may make an offer to acquire Sudbury through a
tender offer, merger or "otherwise."
   In the current SEC filing, Suter said that since December
it has had discussions with Sudbury shareholders, including
its founder. Suter is a holding company for a group of
industrial and distribution businesses and property
interests.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Armstrong Wins 3
   Of 4 Contested Seats
   For Company's Board
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   ACK T.FCY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   LANCASTER, Pa. -- Armstrong World Industries Inc. won
three out of four board seats contested at the company's
annual meeting, according to a preliminary tally of proxy
votes cast. The Belzberg family, which owns about 11.5% of
Armstrong, collected enough votes to elect one director.
   Although the vote was not binding, five governance
amendments proposed by the Belzbergs were also defeated,
pending a federal court decision on the proposals' validity.
According to the preliminary figures, votes against each
proposal ranged from 18.7 million to 19.3 million, votes in
favor ranged from 15.2 million to 15.6 million, and
abstentions ranged from 4.6 million to 4.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although Armstrong said the proposals were "soundly
rejected," the building products concern said it would
consider the shareholders' views on them. If enacted, the
amendments would make it easier for holders to force the
board to take certain actions, such as approve a takeover.
   The board's nominees received about two-thirds of the
votes cast at the April 30 meeting, with the Belzberg
nominees receiving one-third, the company said. Armstrong has
a cumulative voting system for directors, in which
shareholders received four votes per share to allocate any
way they chose. Approximately 83% of Armstrong's 47.2 million
shares voted in the election.
   Armstrong said it was gratified by the results. "Despite
the Belzbergs' strenuous efforts and expensive campaign, a
substantial majority of our shareholders didn't buy what the
Belzbergs attempted to sell," said Chairman and Chief
Executive William W. Adams in a statement.
   The Belzbergs, who have repeatedly indicated they might
make a bid for the company, said they considered the vote on
the amendments a victory, after discounting effects of the
employee stock ownership plan and certain discretionary
proxies that were voted by management.
   Final results will not be available for several days, and
all proxies are subject to review and challenge.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Medical Electronics Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AMEI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN MEDICAL ELECTRONICS Inc. (Dallas) -- Arthur W.
Schwalm, a director of this medical-products company, was
elected chairman. Mr. Schwalm succeeds Joseph Mooibroek, who
remains president and chief executive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Labor Letter:
   A News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Selwyn Feinstein
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR MEA CI MUO TIC
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   THE WORK ETHIC is dead, engineers complain. Bosses are
faulted, too.
   In a scathing indictment of both workers and managers,
three of four engineers surveyed by the Institute of
Industrial Engineers agree "the loss of a strong work ethic
in this country contributes to low productivity." By wide
margins, they believe employees don't work as hard or as
well, or are as loyal or motivated as 10 years ago. Workers,
moreover, are ill-educated, unenthusiastic and resistant to
change.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Companies are bashed for ignoring the problem. "Management
lacks the commitment to implement productivity programs for
employees," three-quarters of the engineers say. And fully
91% of them state "companies are more interested in
short-term financial gain than in long-term investment in
productivity and quality." Workers aren't consulted before
decisions are made, say the engineers.
   Productivity will increase if pay is linked to performance
and profit, the engineers believe.
                                                                                                       

   BALONEY, retort companies and unions. Workers are better,
they say.
   "I totally disagree with all the statements made,"
declares George Graham, a senior vice president of Texas
Instruments Inc. Education remains a "major concern for all
of us," but motivation, dedication and enthusiasm are "on a
significant upswing," he asserts. Robert McClure, president
of Tandy Corp.'s Tandy Electronics subsidiary, says "the
American worker has come a long way." Today's employees are
"working smarter," Johnson Controls Inc. concurs.
   Chrysler Corp.'s advertising trumpets its belief that
American workmanship has improved, a point seconded by the
United Auto Workers. "All the solid work done in this area
contradicts the opinions presented in this survey," the union
says. And Richard Van Bell, Deere &amp; Co.'s personnel director,
asserts American management is committed to quality.
Managers, he says, are "getting better and better" at
listening to what workers can contribute. Many agree with
Larry Brady, executive vice president of FMC Corp., that pay
for performance does, indeed, motivate.
                                                                                                       

   EXECUTIVE SPENDING: Have business jitters closed the
personal checkbook?
   Joel Kovner, chief executive of Professional Bancorp, is
"more frugal" these days. "I have the sense that now is the
time to accumulate cash," he says. Besides, he declares,
conspicuous consumption has become "socially unacceptable."
Ted Rybicki, a vice president of Sun Banks, hopes Mr. Kovner
is right. "People are too much into this materialism," he
says. "There are a lot more important things in life."
   Henry Coffey, a vice president at J.C. Bradford &amp; Co.,
allows he is spending more, what with a variable-rate
mortgage, the kids and medical bills. "But we're being much
more guarded about it. That comes from being extremely
nervous. I'm in the brokerage industry. You fill in the
blanks." But George Zeck, a vice president at Shearson Lehman
Hutton, says his business has been good the past year, so
he's bought a 32-foot sailboat and a place in Florida.
   Me generation free spending hasn't changed "because
there's no reason" for it to change, Mr. Zeck contends.
                                                                                                       

   POOR GRADES: One in four job applicants tested in reading
or math lacks the skills needed for the jobs wanted, an
American Management Association survey finds. One in nine
flunks drug tests.
                                                                                                       

   LOSERS LEAVE. Half the executives who attempt leveraged
buy-outs of their companies don't succeed, and three-quarters
of these failed bidders leave the firms in a year, recruiter
Christian &amp; Timbers says.
                                                                                                       

   PENSION FUNDS hold 26% of the equity and 15% of the
taxable bonds in the U.S. economy, the Employee Benefit
Research Institute estimates. The pot, figured at the close
of 1989, comes to $2.5 trillion.
                                                                                                       

   FORGET ANOTHER "rule of thumb," that the higher your
salary the longer it takes to find a job. Jannotta, Bray &amp;
Associates, an outplacement firm, says posts paying above
$70,000 all take 5 1/2 months.
                                                                                                       

   LIVING BENEFITS are added to worker insurance policies.
But employees pay.
   Mead Corp. considered long-term-care insurance to help
terminally ill workers cope with the massive expenses that
often accompany the end of life. It opted, instead, for the
lower cost -- especially for younger workers -- of a
living-benefit rider to the group universal life coverage
already offered. Such riders customarily allow holders to
collect 50% of their life insurance if they are terminally
ill and face expensive care.
   The coverage -- through Cigna, Mutual of Omaha and
Travelers insurance companies, so far -- isn't cheap.
Employees have to pick up the full tab, and it might cost a
40-year-old man an extra $100 a month. Still, one in five
workers signed up in two months when Mead offered it to
10,000 salaried employees. At Allied-Signal Corp., 42% of the
workers with universal life policies opted for the
living-benefit rider when the coverage was offered to them.
   Unlike life insurance, living benefits are taxable. But a
Senate bill would make them tax exempt.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: Corporate vice presidents rank their bosses
high on energy, self-confidence and assertiveness but low as
visionaries or open to ideas, consultant Management Science &amp;
Development finds. . . . Executives surveyed by Robert Half
International think engineers and accountants are the most
ethical professionals. Investment bankers rank dead last.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hurco Cos.:
   Quarterly Profit Rose 42%
   On 14% Increase in Revenue
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   HURC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hurco Cos., citing market-share gains both in domestic and
overseas markets, said net income climbed 42% in the second
quarter, ended April 30, on a 14% increase in revenue.
   The Indianapolis maker of computer-controlled machine tool
systems said net income was $2.5 million, or 45 cents a
share, up from the year-earlier $1.8 million, or 40 cents a
share. Per-share figures reflect an increase in average
shares outstanding to 5.7 million from 4.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue was $24.8 million in the latest period, up from
$21.9 million.
   Orders were $22.6 million in the latest period, up 13%.
   For the six months, Hurco's net income rose 54% to $4.7
million, or 83 cents a share, from the year-earlier $3.1
million, or 69 cents a share on fewer shares outstanding.
Six-month revenue was $47.6 million, up 18% from the
year-earlier $40.3 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Residential Resources Mortgage:
   Bankruptcy Court Accepts
   Firm's Reorganization Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RRR
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Residential Resources Mortgage Investments Corp., a
Scottsdale, Ariz.-based mortgage-investment company that
filed for bankruptcy-law protection in January 1989, said
that the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Phoenix accepted the
company's submitted plan for reorganization.
   The plan provides, among other things, that shareholders
retain their common-stock rights in the real estate
investment trust. It also calls for certain secured creditors
to receive warrants to acquire as much as 30% of the
company's common stock. Also, certain unsecured creditors
will receive cash payments within 30 days of about 65 cents
on the dollar for their claims, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After making the payments, the company will have "very
nominal net worth and assets" of less than half a million
dollars, said Thomas T. Hammond, Residential's chairman. He
said he intends "to explore every alternative to attract new
capital to the company but no such commitments exist at this
time."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TLC Beatrice Profit
   Totaled $133,000
   In the First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BIF
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- TLC Beatrice International Holdings Inc.
reported first-quarter net income of $133,000 compared with a
year-ago $580,000 net loss.
   Operating profit and sales improved in both of TLC's
segments -- food distribution and grocery products -- and
favorable currency translations also helped results, the
company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On a per-share basis, TLC posted a first-quarter loss of
23 cents, reflecting $2.3 million of preferred-stock
dividends. The year-earlier loss equaled 25 cents a share.
TLC's shares are closely held.
   Sales climbed 25% to $310.4 million from $248.3 million.
   "While we expect excellent results for the remainder of
the year," said Reginald F. Lewis, chief executive officer,
"our second- and third-quarter figures will determine our
full-year performance because our ice-cream and dessert
products are sold during the warm-weather period." TLC sells
a number of European food products including Tato snack foods
in Ireland and Samson ice cream in Italy.
   In December, TLC canceled a proposed initial public
offering as large investors shunned the plan. The company,
formed two years prior as an investor group led by Mr. Lewis
purchased what had been the foreign-food lines of Beatrice
Cos. from investment bank Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Hachette S.A. Unit
   Is Planning Sale
   Of Woman's Day
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   F.HAC NYTA MDP U.REE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Diamandis Communications Inc., a unit of
French publisher Hachette S.A., said it plans to sell Woman's
Day, one of the largest circulation women's magazines in the
U.S.
   Hachette declined to say what price it is seeking for
Woman's Day, which it said had operating profit in 1989 of
more than $25 million. Investment bankers and publishing
industry consultants said the magazine could fetch between
$175 million and $200 million, based on a multiple of between
seven and eight times its operating profit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Hachette is selling Woman's Day at a difficult time.
The magazine's ad pages are down about 15% below last year's
level, reflecting a general slump in magazine advertising.
And many big publishers are backing away from their buying
sprees of recent years.
   Didier Guerin, the president of Hachette's U.S.
subsidiary, Hachette Publications Inc., said "When we
acquired Diamandis two years ago, we took on a lot of debt.
It's good to reduce that debt. And we want to concentrate on
special interest magazines in the U.S. and magazines with an
international appeal, such as Elle."
   Woman's Day, with an average circulation of just under
five million, is one of the so-called Seven Sisters women's
magazines. It isn't the classiest, selling mostly single
issue copies in supermarkets, but it is solidly profitable,
said publisher Bob Mate, and reaches roughly one in four
American women. As a very large, mass-oriented publication,
Woman's Day is quite different from the other tightly
targeted magazines published by Diamandis, which include Road
&amp; Track, Car and Driver and Popular Photography.
   Investment bankers speculate that possible buyers for
Woman's Day include the owners of the other six "sisters,"
including Hearst Corp., which publishes Good Housekeeping and
Redbook. New York Times Co., which publishes Family Circle,
just bought McCall's last year and isn't expected to be in
the market again so soon. Meredith Corp. owns Ladies' Home
Journal and Better Homes &amp; Gardens. Some say Cahners
Publishing Co., a unit of Britain's giant Reed International
PLC, is a potential buyer because it owns similar
publications in England and is expanding in the U.S.
   Dan McNamee, a media consultant, said Diamandis has been
"quietly discussing the prospect" of selling Woman's Day for
at least six months. Mr. McNamee agrees that "it's a bad fit
for Diamandis, which has a slew of special-interest titles."
Despite the fact that magazines are selling for lower
multiples than they were a year ago and the weakness of the
advertising market, Mr. McNamee said he expects Woman's Day
to find a buyer. "I think the franchise is still strong,
though whoever buys it may need to invest some money," said
Mr. McNamee.
   Included in the sale, which is being handled by investment
bankers Veronis, Suhler &amp; Associates Inc., will be 21 Woman's
Day Specials, single-subject special magazines on such topics
as home decorating and health. A spokesman said the company
sells about six million copies of the special issues a year,
for annual revenue of about $15 million.
   Hachette bought Diamandis in 1988 for $712 million, which
included 13 publications.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Middleby Files Suit
   Against Whitman Unit
   For Breach of Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   MBY WH
</CO>
<LP>
   MORTON GROVE, Ill. -- Middleby Corp. filed suit against a
Whitman Corp. unit, alleging fraud and breach of contract in
the 1989 sale of the unit's food-service equipment
operations.
   In a lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court in Chicago, the
maker of food-service equipment claims Whitman's Hussmann
Corp. unit misrepresented the profitability of its
food-service group, which it sold to Middleby in July 1989
for $62.5 million. The operations Middleby bought include the
Toastmaster, Victory Refrigeration, Southbend, Seco and Escan
lines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Middleby is seeking about $30 million it says it overpaid
for the operations as a result of Hussmann's
"misrepresentations and concealments." It is also asking for
punitive damages of "at least $40 million." The suit names
Hussmann as a defendant, but doesn't name Whitman, the
parent.
   Whitman announced in March that it plans to sell the
Hussmann unit; Middleby said it had sought to meet with
Whitman after the announcement that Hussmann would be sold,
but had been "rebuffed."
   A spokesman for Whitman called the suit a "crock of banana
oil," and denied the allegations. In addition, the spokesman
said, "Any time {Middleby} wanted to meet with us, we have
met with them."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Comfy Ride:
   Car Magazine Writers
   Sometimes Moonlight
   For Firms They Review
   ---
   They Also Rake in `Freebies'
   From Auto Companies
   And Double as Advisers
   ---
   An Enthusiast, Not a Reporter
   ----
   By Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   F.HAC NWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- At Car and Driver, America's largest magazine
for car buffs, the writers and editors like to get close to
their subjects. Very close.
   Editor William Jeanes says he encourages staffers to be
"consultants" to auto makers, the better to get early access
to new cars and inside dope. That meant staff editor Tony
Assenza could, for a fee, help Suzuki Motor Corp.'s
advertising agency prepare publicity materials and a training
film for sales personnel. Then Mr. Assenza reviewed two
Suzuki vehicles in the magazine, describing the Sidekick as
"a well-aimed rifle shot," and the Swift GTi as "a basic,
sturdy, off-the-shelf nickel rocket."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   No big deal, says Mr. Assenza, who left Car and Driver
last November to work for one of Honda Motor Co.'s
advertising agencies. He says the reviews, which appeared in
November 1988 and February 1989, were untainted because of
his own integrity, and that of Car and Driver's editors. He
notes that deep in his positive review of the Swift, for
example, he calls the steering "heavy" and the suspension
mediocre. "I'm not afraid to bite the hand that somewhat
feeds me," he declares.
   Welcome to the world of automotive enthusiast journalism,
where the barriers that separate advertisers from journalists
are porous enough for paychecks to pass through -- as well as
airline tickets to Japan, free rooms at fancy resorts, gift
certificates, clocks, briefcases and, of course, free use of
some of the hottest new cars on the market.
   Once an isolated niche among specialty magazines, the
major "buff books" are growing mightily in size and
influence. The Big Four -- Car and Driver, Motor Trend, Road
&amp; Track and Automobile -- now boast 2.9 million readers;
their combined advertising revenue ($137.8 million) has
surged 33% since 1987.
   Auto makers, meanwhile, want every edge they can get in
their increasingly competitive market. They view glowing
buff-book reviews as a more powerful marketing tool than the
buy-my-car message in their own multimillion-dollar ad
campaigns. But as manufacturers, particularly the Japanese,
step up efforts to woo the editors and publishers who control
the car magazines, the lines separating some of the critics
from their subjects are getting blurry indeed. Consider:
   -- Some well-known automotive writers routinely sell their
services on a "free-lance" basis to car companies or their ad
agencies. David E. Davis Jr., editor of Automobile, gets paid
for speaking at company gatherings. "If Ford or Volkswagen
wants me to speak to dealers at a sales convention, my fee is
$5,000," Mr. Davis says, adding that he makes 20 to 25
speeches a year.
   -- Other writers are on car-company payrolls. At Motor
Trend, regular contributor Ron Grable spends part of every
year writing about cars. The rest of the year, he works for
Nissan Motor Co. in Los Angeles, test-driving prototypes. The
magazine doesn't allow Mr. Grable to review Japanese cars "to
avoid the appearance of impropriety," says executive editor
Jack Nerad. Mr. Grable does, however, review the products of
Nissan's Detroit rivals, though not those that compete
directly with Nissan cars.
   -- Some buff magazines rake in huge amounts by producing
"special issues" that are magazine-length promotions paid for
by a single manufacturer. In 1988 Motor Trend produced such
an issue for Ford with the cover headline "How Ford Became
1." Just last month it did a similar Ford issue titled
"Winning America Over."
   "We don't have direct editorial control," a Ford spokesman
says. "But you can understand that it's not going to have a
negative bent to it. That just wouldn't be in the cards."
These issues have a separate staff and are labeled "special
supplement" at the bottom of the cover. But they look just
like regular issues.
   "I think it's a scandal," says Stephen Isaacs, a professor
and associate dean at Columbia University's Graduate School
of Journalism, referring to the broader influence the auto
makers have over buff books. "I love those magazines, but
{now} I just won't buy them. How can you believe any word in
a publication that allows" such practices?
   Even a few veterans of the buff-book trade say things are
getting out of hand. "I don't see how you can report on a car
maker and work there," says Road &amp; Track editor Tom Bryant.
"It's like discovering that the White House correspondent for
a network is teaching the president how to appear on
television."
   Mr. Bryant drew a line, of sorts, last year when Road &amp;
Track mailed subscribers a "special" edition bought by Nissan
to promote the new 300 ZX sports car. The magazine got "a lot
of adverse mail" from readers, Mr. Bryant says, so Road &amp;
Track decided that no more special issues would be mailed
directly to subscribers. The advertising specials still look
much like regular Road &amp; Track issues, but now Nissan and its
dealers distribute them.
   Such qualms, however, aren't the norm. Most buff-book
writers and editors say the favors they get from car makers
don't compromise the magazines' integrity. "I can't think of
a time when either I or a member of my staff has modified his
judgment because the knowledge of that product was the result
of a trip someone paid for," says Automobile's Mr. Davis.
   Buff books aren't the only publications bending the
traditional barriers between editorial and advertising.
Fashion writers, for example, are often invited to act as
design advisers and plied with free gifts, says Alan
Millstein, publisher of the newsletter Fashion Network
Report. "The wall between advertising and editorial at most
fashion publications is translucent," he says. "It's like the
skin of an onion." In fact, a recent article in the Columbia
Journalism Review worried that a number of magazines in a
variety of fields are "selling their editorial integrity" to
woo advertising.
   The automobile buff books present a special case. It isn't
a $400 suit or $30 of cosmetics they're writing about. The
products they review constitute the second biggest purchase
-- next to a house -- many of their readers will ever make.
   That isn't to say that buff books don't write negative
reviews. Car and Driver, for example, can be downright
biting. It recently said the V-6 engine in General Motors
Corp.'s new S-15 Jimmy "feels and sounds like a V-8 with two
plug wires pulled." Automobile last December chronicled how
the 1988 Lincoln Continental it tested racked up seven visits
to the shop and $1,995 worth of repairs (some covered by
warranty) in less than 31,000 miles.
   What's more, buff-book editors say it isn't in the
character of broad-ranging enthusiast magazines to follow the
prim example of, say, Consumer Reports, which doesn't accept
free use of cars for testing, accept free trips for its
reporters or allow employees who write its car reviews to
free-lance for the auto makers.
   (The Wall Street Journal also forbids those practices,
although the newspaper did accept free use of "test" cars
until 1966. Since then, The Journal has rented these vehicles
from the auto makers.)
   Each of the major buff books tries to cultivate a distinct
character. Motor Trend, owned by Petersen Publishing Co. of
Los Angeles, emphasizes domestic models and tends to be the
most generous in praising them. Car and Driver has a
tongue-in-cheek flair; for the April issue, technical editor
Csaba Csere reviewed the ride of the SSN 700, a nuclear
submarine. Road &amp; Track, which along with Car and Driver is
owned by Hachette, of Paris, France, aims for fans of
road-racing and exotic European sports cars. Automobile,
owned by a subsidiary of Rupert Murdoch's News Corp., tries
to be an Esquire for car connoisseurs.
   Car makers want the same thing from buff writers that
movie producers want from Siskel and Ebert: A few snappy
lines of unqualified praise suitable for quotation. "People
don't trust advertising," says Kinder Essington, director of
marketing and advertising planning for J. Walter Thompson's
Detroit office, which handles Ford's car advertising. But
people do trust buff-book reviews, almost as much as their
own previous experience with a car or the recommendation of a
friend, he says.
   That's why even Mercedes-Benz and Toyota Motor Corp. lard
their ads with buff-book quotes. Lexus, Toyota's luxury
division, makes the strategy explicit in a recent magazine ad
that shows a photo of its LS 400 sedan surrounded by
laudatory quotes from buff books. "If you're looking for a
second opinion on Lexus," the headline reads, "here are 26 of
them."
   All of which explains why auto makers court the buff
books. Long before it introduced its new MR 2 sports car this
year, Toyota invited several car-magazine writers to critique
the model. Among other things, the writers said the
suspension was too mushy. Toyota tightened up the ride "and
indeed produced a better sports car," a company spokesman
says.
   Months before a new car is launched, manufacturers start
lobbying in earnest for favorable coverage. Last August, as
Nissan prepared to introduce its Infiniti luxury division, it
invited about two dozen buff-book writers for a free two-day
stay at the plush Four Seasons Hotel in Beverly Hills.
Oldsmobile last year played host to the buff press at the
Stouffer Pine Isle Resort near Atlanta.
   At such events, it is a longstanding custom for car makers
to present gifts to the writers. During its Georgia soiree,
for instance, Oldsmobile handed out $25 gift certificates for
the resort's pro shop. A few writers gave the certificates
back, but most didn't, an Olds spokesman says. Buff writers
say gifts are usually worth less than $50, but car makers
have handed out more valuable items, such as leather jackets
and typewriters.
   The auto makers also court the writers to act as design or
marketing advisers -- sometimes for pay. "They {car makers}
say, `Can we rent one of your guys to look at what we're
doing, and tell us if we're on the right track,'" says Mr.
Jeanes, the Car and Driver editor. He compares this
consulting work to that of a computer-science professor who
advises IBM.
   Thus Patrick Bedard, editor-at-large at Car and Driver,
periodically serves as a paid consultant to auto makers. He
helped write a report for GM on how to improve its 1986 Buick
Riviera and Cadillac Eldorado. GM paid him "a very tiny
amount," says Mr. Bedard, without being specific. "It's not
enough to turn my head." He adds: "I do not see myself as a
reporter. None of us came to this business to be reporters.
We came to follow our car enthusiasm."
   Mr. Jeanes acknowledges that "it doesn't look good" for
his writers to take money from car makers. But he notes that
the magazine requires writers to inform editors of their
consulting work, and to submit their reviews of clients' cars
to a "peer review" by other staffers. "I'm quite comfortable
in terms of maintaining editorial integrity," he says.
   Then there are the awards.
   Motor Trend, Car and Driver and Automobile magazines have
created a cottage industry in handing out annual accolades to
their favorite vehicles. Each year at Motor Trend, for
example, the magazine's editors put a collection of new cars
through ride and handling tests and score them on styling,
quality and acceleration, among other things. The magazine's
staff, monitored by an accounting firm, then votes on a
domestic and import "Car of the Year."
   But the Car of the Year awards aren't merely a recognition
of car-making prowess. They're the sparks that fire a
lucrative marketing engine. Motor Trend says advertising
plays no part in which car gets the award. But it's a
different story after the winner is decided, car-company
officials say.
   When Motor Trend told Nissan that its 300 ZX Turbo had won
the 1990 Import Car of the Year contest, the magazine's
representatives spent most of the meeting describing the
myriad advertising opportunities the award presented, a
Nissan official recalls. And Nissan now is running three-page
color ads in Motor Trend using the magazine's testimonial.
   Ford, which in January won a Car of the Year trophy for
its Lincoln Town Car, is also running three-page spreads in
Motor Trend. What's more, Ford trumpets its award (and the
Motor Trend name) in ads that run in other publications.
   Car and Driver, meanwhile, publishes an annual "Ten Best
Cars" list. Honda now runs magazine ads to boast about making
the Car and Driver list eight years in a row. In these ads,
Car and Driver's name is repeated eight times.
   At Automobile, Mr. Davis says he and his staff simply sit
down once a year to choose both an Automobile of the Year and
a group of Automotive All-Stars. This share-the-wealth
approach made winners of nine different companies this year.
   One of them was Chrysler Corp. The company was so pleased
that its Dodge Caravan made the 1990 All-Star list (despite
being more than five years old) that it thanked Automobile --
in a full page ad it bought in the magazine's All-Star issue.
"It's enough to make a Caravan blush," Chrysler gushed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   General Signal Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   GSX WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GENERAL SIGNAL Corp. (Stamford, Conn.) -- Terry J.
Mortimer, 45 years old, was named vice president, controller
of this manufacturer of semiconductors and electrical
equipment for transportation industries. Mr. Mortimer,
previously director of finance and chief accountant for Apple
Computer Inc., in Cupertino, Calif., succeeds J. Robert
Hipps, 50, who resigned.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Rating:
   S&amp;P Lowers Ratings
   On Wells Fargo Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   WFC
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it cut its
rating on Wells Fargo &amp; Co.'s senior debt to single-A-plus
from double-A-minus.
   The rating concern also downgraded the banking company's
commercial paper to single-A-minus from single-A-plus,
preferred stock to single-A-minus from single-A, and
letter-of-credit-backed issues to single-A-plus from
double-A-minus. In all, about $3.7 billion in debt is
affected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   S&amp;P said the cuts reflect its concerns about the potential
effects of Wells Fargo's high exposure to commercial real
estate, as well as a major commitment to lending for highly
leveraged transactions.
   In a statement, Carl E. Reichardt, Wells Fargo's chairman,
described the S&amp;P action as "inappropriate."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Wells Fargo shares closed at $73.50, down $1.375.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Caisse des Depots &amp; Consignations
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   CAISSE DES DEPOTS &amp; CONSIGNATIONS (Paris) -- This
financial institution's New York subsidiary, CDC Capital
Inc., named Gordon I. Miller Jr. executive vice president and
treasurer, a new position. Mr. Miller, 43 years old, was
formerly vice president, fixed-income risk management, at
Chase Manhattan Bank in New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Voices in the Desert Deliver a Bullish Message
   To Investors Eager for the Word on the 1990s
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   GL UKM BRG BP KM UIC BTY SC PAC MSFT AIG LDG MO SPC CAR
NPR CCI DNB CLX IBM CMB SYN HSY TBY EK XRX
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAS VEGAS, Nev. -- Three thousand investors who gathered
here last week got an earful from investment advisers in two
camps: those who are bullish now, and those who expect to be
bullish in a year or two.
   Among the immediate optimists is Donald Rowe, editor of
Wall Street Digest, who expects the Dow Jones Industrial
Average to hit 3150 by year end and 10,000 by the end of the
decade. Yesterday, the DJIA closed at 2821.53.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Typical of the "delayed bulls" is James B. Stack, editor
of InvesTech Market Analyst, who said: "I am bullish on the
1990s. It's the next 12 to 18 months I'm very nervous about."
   Here's a sampling of opinion from the conference known as
the Las Vegas Money Show, sponsored by Investment Seminars
Inc.
   Charles Allmon, money manager and editor of Growth Stock
Outlook, drew some of the biggest crowds. "I think the stock
market today is as dangerous as it was in 1987," he told
listeners.
   The market "is not cheap," he argued, because stock prices
are perilously high compared with companies' sales and with
book value, or assets minus liabilities. The book value of
the Dow industrials is about 1750, he noted, and "in the last
three recessions the Dow sold below book."
   Mr. Allmon expects a recession within the next couple of
years, perhaps spurred by spreading real-estate woes. He
predicts that the Dow Jones Industrial Average will fall to
between 1000 and 1500. But then he expects "the greatest boom
this country has ever seen," with the Dow industrials rising
to 6000 (and the public enthusiastically joining in when the
average crosses 4000).
   Detractors criticize Mr. Allmon for holding too much cash
ever since 1986. But he isn't in any mood to back down:
Currently he is about 80% in cash and proud of it. And even
his critics generally concede that Mr. Allmon is a shrewd
stock picker.
   At workshops, he provided a long list of recommended
stocks, among them American International Group,
Carter-Wallace, Clorox, Hershey Foods, Longs Drug Stores, and
New Plan Realty Trust.
   In response to investors' questions, Mr. Allmon also had
some unvarnished comments on stocks he's avoiding. On
International Business Machines: "No thank you. There are too
many good companies around. IBM has had its day." On TCBY
Enterprises: "I love their yogurt, but I don't like the price
of the stock." On Philip Morris: "I think Philip Morris could
be the turkey of the 1990s." The anti-smoking movement is
"picking up steam," in Europe and in the U.S., so Philip
Morris is "going to be left with Latin America and Africa."
   Geraldine Weiss, author of "Dividends Don't Lie" and
editor of Investment Quality Trends, emphasizes dividend
yields. Each stock has its own distinctive overvalued and
undervalued yield levels, she says. The DJIA is undervalued
when it yields 6% and overvalued when it yields 3%. Based on
the current dividend payments of the 30 Dow industrial
stocks, the index could rise to 3556 before it would be
clearly overvalued. It would be clearly undervalued at 1778.
"Historically, there is strong support at the 4% {dividend}
level," currently 2660, Ms. Weiss asserted.
   Banks, she said, are extremely undervalued: "The market is
virtually giving them away." Among her bank recommendations
are Citicorp, Chase Manhattan and Security Pacific. Other
stocks she recommends include IBM, Eastman Kodak, Dun &amp;
Bradstreet, Syntex, Xerox, K mart and United Industrial.
   Richard Band, a contrarian with a considerable following,
writes the newsletter Richard Band's Profitable Investing. He
likes the British market because it has been hard hit, and
recommends British Telecom, United Kingdom Fund, British Gas,
British Petroleum and Shell Transport &amp; Trading, which owns
40% of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group. The rest is owned by
Royal Dutch Petroleum. Shell Oil Co. is the U.S. unit of
Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
   Mr. Band also sees a "great bargain-hunting opportunity"
in utilities, which dropped about 13% in the first quarter.
His favorites include Pacific Telesis and Global Utility
Fund.
   Wall Street Digest's Mr. Rowe, was perhaps the biggest
bull at the conference. He believes the Federal Reserve Board
will lick inflation, bringing down interest rates on
long-term Treasury bonds to 7% by the end of 1991. "They will
probably not yield 9% again in our lifetime," he declares. He
would avoid inflation hedges such as gold, and likes
high-tech companies such as Microsoft.
   InvesTech's Mr. Stack, a pundit widely respected by other
newsletter writers, was gloomier. He noted that auto sales
and housing remain weak, that inflation in almost every
industrialized country was higher at the end of 1989 than at
the end of 1988, and that the same was true of interest
rates. "We may indeed be dropping into a recession," he
concluded. He added: "Don't look to economists or politicians
to tell you if {we are}. Economists failed to forecast all
four of the past four recessions. Economic forecasting is the
science that made astrology respectable."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Education:
   Nintendo Looks to MIT for Brain-Teasing Video Games
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NTD
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Many parents view video games as the
junk food of the mind and Nintendo Ltd. as the chef.
   Hoping to change that image, Nintendo is to announce today
that it's donating $3 million to Massachusetts Institute of
Technology's Media Laboratory in the hope that MIT can find
ways to help create games that stimulate thought.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MIT and Nintendo believe the 20 million Nintendo
video-game systems in homes around the U.S. could play a role
in education precisely because they're so popular among
children. "Children feel absolutely comfortable with {video
games}. It's more than comfortable, it's a love affair," says
Seymour Papert, a mathematician at Media Lab who's an expert
in using play to help children learn.
   Prof. Papert and fellow MIT scientists primarily will
conduct basic research on how to harness the nation's
otherwise idle fascination with video games for constructive
use. With MIT's findings, Nintendo and its licensed software
makers will then develop games. Under terms of the grant, MIT
doesn't have to create specific game cartridges, though Prof.
Papert doesn't rule out that possibility.
   Nintendo isn't just trying to appease concerned parents
with the project. With its systems already in 90% of all
homes with children of video game-playing age, the market is
nearing saturation. By creating more interest in educational
games, the Japanese company could boost software sales.
   As part of that thrust, Nintendo has talked to Video
Technology Industries Inc., an Illinois electronics concern,
about creating a game that would develop a child's deductive
powers and memory. Video Technology is currently programming
a game, but because of the weak market for educational games,
Nintendo won't sign any pact until it sees the product,
according to an executive involved in the talks. Nintendo
also is exploring businesses outside the video game field,
including electronic stock trading and home shopping.
   For video-technology concerns, this isn't the first foray
into electronic education. Nintendo itself has two
educational video games, under the Sesame Street name, that
help children spell and learn numbers. Other companies,
including Mattel Inc., Quaker Oats Co.'s Fisher Price unit
and Tiger Electronics Inc. also make educational games.
   These existing games haven't been runaway successes among
children, because they're too much like classwork and not
enough like games. As a result, only about $350 million of
educational software was sold last year, a shadow of the $3.5
billion in sales that video games racked up. Nicholas
Negroponte, director of the Media Lab, attributes the weak
market for educational games to the fact that "they try to
trick kids into thinking that they're playing" instead of
doing assignments.
   The challenge, says Mr. Negroponte, is to come up with
ways to develop games that entertain kids and educate them at
the same time in such subjects as math, geometry and logic.
"Nintendo doesn't know how {to make such a game}, that's why
they're giving us the project," he adds.
   "It's a very difficult thing to do," comments Bernard
Tessler, a former school teacher who now runs Children's
Creative Workshop, a retail store in Syosset, N.Y. "It hasn't
been done successfully yet." He himself once toyed with the
notion of trying to develop such games, but decided not to
because "I didn't have the materials and means," he says.
   Another difficulty: Just the idea of having children spend
more time playing video games at home or in class will be
jarring to many parents. "Nintendo is the antithesis of
school," says Mr. Negroponte. "Parents resent their children
playing with the game. They feel it's a distraction."
   Prof. Papert, the proponent of a radical education theory,
is going to head the MIT project. He's known for his use of
Lego blocks to tutor elementary school children in physics
and spatial geometry. Hooking up the blocks to a computer,
children learn how to construct bridges, buildings and cars.
Then, through a special computer language system called Logo
that Mr. Papert devised, they make the objects move and
operate. The Lego-Logo system is now used in about one-third
of U.S. elementary schools and was the outgrowth of a grant
from Denmark's Lego Group.
   It was Prof. Papert's work with Lego that got Nintendo
President Hiroshi Yamauchi's attention in February when Mr.
Negroponte first approached him. "We went to him with a 3
1/2-inch thick document outlining a project proposal,"
recalls Mr. Negroponte. "But Nintendo broadened the scope of
our research, leaving it open-ended without establishing a
set of deliverables and deadlines."
   Before coming up with ideas on how to mix play and
learning with software, researchers will try to better
understand children's fascination with video games. "Nobody
fully understands how something like this can have such a
strong hold on someone," notes Prof. Papert. "Sometimes, it's
scary to think about it."
   Prof. Papert says any new Nintendo game by MIT could
include elements from two games already on the market. One is
Nintendo's Tetris, a sort of geometric jigsaw puzzle that
requires players to think several moves in advance, because
the positioning of one piece on the screen dictates where the
next four or five will go. The other is SimCity, a game by
Maxis in which players build cities. SimCity offers some
understanding of engineering design, architecture and the
environment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Metrobank Financial Group Inc.:
   Fourth-Quarter Loss Posted;
   Real Estate Market Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MFGRE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Metrobank Financial Group Inc., citing a soft real estate
market, posted a fourth-quarter loss of $18 million, or $9.75
a share, and said it expects further losses unless the market
improves.
   The loss included a $16.5 million addition to reserves to
cover possible loan losses. Nonperforming assets totaled
$42.4 million as of the end of 1989. A year earlier,
Palisades Park, N.J.-based Metrobank earned $752,000, or 41
cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Metrobank said that it may not meet the new regulatory
capital requirements imposed on all savings associations by
the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement
Act of 1989. As a result, the company said, Metrobank may be
subject to supervisory action by federal officials.
   Metrobank also announced that as a result of restrictions
on commercial lending, Malcolm Marsa has left as chairman and
and chief executive officer. His brother Paul resigned as a
director.
   Michael P. Scaduto, president and chief operating officer,
was named to the additional post of chief exectutive; and
attorney Berek P. Don of Englewood Cliffs, N.J., already a
director, was named chairman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Tanox Biosystems Inc.:
   Ciba-Geigy Ltd. to Develop
   Allergy Treatment Products
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.CIG
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   A small Houston biotechnology company said it agreed with
Swiss pharmaceuticals giant Ciba-Geigy Ltd. to jointly
develop monoclonal antibody products for treating certain
allergies.
   The company, privately held Tanox Biosystems Inc., said
the two companies will merge their research on ways to
eliminate from the blood and suppress further production of a
substance called immunoglobulin E. That substance seems to
exacerbate allergic reactions such as hay fever, asthma and
insect stings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement, Ciba-Geigy will pay Tanox an initial
undisclosed amount of money, with additional payments as
product development progresses. Ciba Geigy will also acquire
a minority stake in Tanox. Tanox will receive royalties on
Ciba-Geigy's sales of resulting allergy products and will
share manufacturing rights.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Surges to Biggest Two-Day Gain
   Of the Year Amid Broad Buying Interest
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Over-the-counter stocks rose to their highest level in two
months as investors shopped among second-tier shares as well
as larger issues, traders said.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 3.51, or 0.8%, to 441.61,
the highest level since March 19. Advancing stocks outpaced
declining shares, 1,081 to 882, as volume swelled to 177.2
million from 167.6 million on Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since Thursday, the Nasdaq index has jumped 8.41, or
1.94%, the largest two-day advance this year. But unlike the
Dow Jones Industrial Average, which closed at a new high, the
Nasdaq index is well below its record of 485.73 last Oct. 9.
   "We saw very broad buying interest across the whole
board," said E.E. "Buzzy" Geduld, president of Herzog, Heine,
Geduld Inc., a wholesale New York market maker. While Mr.
Geduld said most of his clients bought larger stocks, some
regional shares were in vogue at Morgan Keegan &amp; Co. in
Memphis, said Hedy Reynolds, head of OTC trading there.
   Interest in second-tier and regional stocks picked up at
the end of last week and continued yesterday, Ms. Reynolds
said. Among some active southeastern regional stocks were:
SCI Systems, a Huntsville, Ala., maker of electronics
equipment, up 1/2 at 11 1/8, and Ryan's Family Steak House, a
Greer, S.C., restaurant chain, up 1/4 at 8 1/4. First
American (Tennessee) rebounded 1/2 to 12 3/4 from last week's
tumble after eliminating its dividend and reporting a
second-quarter loss.
   Led by MCI Communications, up 1 3/8 to 40 1/2, the Nasdaq
utility index jumped 10.56, or 1.76%, to 623.66. PaineWebber
telecommunications analyst Jack Grubman said in an interview
that regional and long-distance telephone companies rebounded
after being pressured earlier in the year amid fears of a
price war.
   Mr. Grubman also suggested that investors might be buying
telephone shares in advance of Thursday's expected rate
filing by the nation's largest telephone company, AT&amp;T. The
analyst said it's widely anticipated that for the first time
since the break-up of the Bell system, AT&amp;T will ask the
Federal Communications Commission to approve unchanged or
even higher rates, because of inflation and other factors. If
so, such a move would lead to firmer rates across the
industry, he noted.
   MCI also got a boost from money manager Emmanuel Gerard of
Gerard Klauer Mattison &amp; Co., who recommended the stock in
this week's edition of Barron's.
   Shares of cellular telephone stocks also were strong after
this newspaper reported that cellular operators are counting
on the development of digital technology to continue their
rapid growth. McCaw Cellular Communications Class A shares
rose 5/8 to 26 7/8; LIN Broadcasting class B shares advanced
2 to 68; Contel Cellular Class A shares gained 1 3/4 to 17
3/4, and U S West NewVector Class A shares added 1 to close
at 33 1/4.
   Cellular Communications rose 3/4 to 32 3/4 after reporting
net income for the first quarter ended March 31 of $1.08 a
share, after a gain, compared with a loss of nine cents a
share a year earlier.
   Sun Microsystems, up 1 1/8 at 30 1/2, led the technology
issues. The Mountain View, Calif., computer manufacturer
announced that General Electric selected Sun's UNIX-based
workstations. Other active technology issues included Seagate
Technology, up 7/8 at 14, and Oracle Systems, up 5/8 at 18
5/8. On the other hand, Apple Computer slid 7/8 to 41 3/4 and
Intel fell 1/2 to 44 1/2. The Nasdaq 100 Index of larger
issues, including large technology shares, jumped 5.94, or
1.34%, to 447.72.
   Hometown Bancorp was among the day's biggest percentage
gainers, up 3/4 at 3 3/4. The Darien, Conn., parent company
of the Bank of Darien, said it will buy back up to 500,000
shares of its stock in a Dutch auction; in this kind of
auction, the price paid will be the lowest at which the
desired number of shares are offered. The bank also reported
a loss for the first quarter ended March 31 of $1.13 a share,
after a provision for loan losses, compared with net income
of eight cents a share a year earlier.
   Telematics International gained 1/2 to 3 1/4 after the Ft.
Lauderdale, Fla., maker of computer networking equipment
reported a loss of seven cents a share for the first quarter
ended March 31, narrowed from a loss of 27 cents a share a
year earlier.
   Sproutz-Reitz Stores leaped 3 3/8 to 13 1/2 after the
Portland, Ore., concern said Friday it received an
unsolicited $17-a-share buy-out proposal from an investor
group.
   LTX gained 1/8 to 3 1/8 after the Westwood, Mass., maker
of test equipment for integrated circuits said Sumitomo Metal
Industries Ltd. of Japan agreed to invest $12 million in LTX
common shares and convertible debentures and an additional
$12 million in an LTX-Sumitomo Metal joint venture.
   Action Auto Rental advanced 1 to 6 3/4. Robert Moore,
chief financial officer of the Solon, Ohio, automobile
insurer, told Dow Jones Professional Investor Report the rise
might be tied to recent recommendations of the stock by
analysts at Smith Barney, Upham &amp; Harris and McDonald &amp; Co.
   Addington Resources tumbled 2 3/4 to 16 3/4. The Ashland,
Ky., coal mining company said it expects to report
first-quarter earnings either today or tomorrow, but declined
to elaborate.
   Artel Communications fell 1 1/8 to 4 7/8. Late Friday, the
company said it doesn't expect to report a profit for the
fiscal second quarter and that revenue in the quarter will be
"significantly" lower than previously expected. For the
second quarter ended July 1, 1989, Artel reported net income
of seven cents a share.
   ---
   Craig S. Smith contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hometown Bancorp.:
   First-Quarter Loss Posted,
   Buy-Back Plan Announced
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HTWN
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hometown Bancorp., parent company of the Bank of Darien,
Darien, Conn., posted a first-quarter loss and announced a
plan to buy back as much as 23.7% of its stock.
   The stock soared 75 cents in national over-the-counter
trading yesterday to close at $3.75 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also said Kevin E. Gage would succeed James E.
Banks as president and chief executive officer of Hometown
Bancorp. because, company Chairman Douglas D. Milne III said,
"a more aggressive approach to management was required to
steer the company through these troubled times."
   Mr. Banks will become vice chairman of the company.
   The loss was $2.1 million, or $1.13 a share, vs.
year-earlier profit of $147,000, or eight cents a share. The
company cited $2.1 million set aside for possible loan losses
and other reserves, reflecting a troubled real estate market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.:
   Company Wins 2 Contracts
   With Value of $79 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   JEC Z.CIG
</CO>
<LP>
   Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. said it received two
contracts valued at $79 million from Ciba-Geigy Corp. to
design and construct a dyestuff manufacturing facility and a
chemical plant in St. Gabriel, La.
   Jacobs, based in Pasadena, Calif., said it plans to
complete construction of the $67 million dyestuff plant by
June 1991. It plans to complete construction of a $12 million
chemical plant by this December.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ciba-Geigy Corp. is the U.S. unit of Swiss-based
Ciba-Geigy Ltd., a maker of agricultural chemicals,
dyestuffs, and other products. In addition to construction
and engineering services, Jacobs provides environmental and
hazardous-waste services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Swiss Bank Corp.:
   Firm Acquires 49% Stake
   In Switzerland's Unigestion
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.SBV Z.BDS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Swiss Bank Corp., Switzerland's second-largest bank, said
it has a 49% stake in the financial company Unigestion SA of
Geneva with the acquisition of a nonlisted stake of
registered shares.
   Unigestion, in turn, has a 49.9% voting stake, through a
subsidiary, in the medium-sized Swiss bank Banca della
Svizzera Italiana.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   No other details were given, pending a news conference set
for today in Zurich.
   The transaction continues a consolidation in the Swiss
banking industry.
   Analysts suggested that Unigestion had problems in
absorbing the costs of obtaining its indirect controlling
stake in Banca della Svizzera Italiana.
   Analysts speculated that the 49% stake in Unigestion may
give the big Swiss bank enough control to influence
Unigestion's management.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Desire to Avoid Gramm-Rudman Cuts
   May Determine Course of Budget Talks
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A26
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- For all the political risk that Congress and
the White House face in budget talks beginning here today,
the alternative of deep automatic spending cuts may be even
more perilous, both sides agree.
   After all the blustering is over, the imperative of
avoiding these across-the-board spending cuts is likely to be
foremost on the minds of congressional and administration
budget negotiators when they open talks with a 90-minute
session at the White House this afternoon.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The cuts, which would be triggered in October by the
Gramm-Rudman law, would slash fiscal 1991 spending 25% or
more on everything from President Bush's war on drugs to the
already-stretched air-traffic-control system. Social Security
benefits would be spared, but the director of the
Congressional Budget Office warns that Social Security
offices might have to close one day a week.
   "It would have a chilling effect on our way of life in the
United States," says Rep. Silvio Conte of Massachusetts, a
Republican negotiator at the budget summit.
   And he is assuming that the across-the-board spending cuts
for fiscal 1991 would amount to only $55 billion or so. White
House Budget Director Richard Darman, who keeps the books
under the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law, says inaction
might mean cuts of $100 billion or more just before this
fall's elections.
   That's far greater than the $16.1 billion in Gramm-Rudman
cuts imposed last year but scaled back sharply within a week.
"When you double the ante or triple it," says House
Republican Leader Robert Michel of Illinois, "then that tends
to have a feedback into every member's district."
   The pain might not be felt immediately, budget analysts
say. But it would come if the cuts weren't undone. A new
congressional analysis shows that if the spending cuts
totaled $50 billion, then outlays for veterans' health care
would be pared by $350 million, for aid to Israel by $550
million, for AIDS research by $127 million and for the space
program by $1.4 billion. By law, roughly two-thirds of all
federal spending is exempt, including Social Security
benefits and federal pensions. The cuts would be split evenly
between defense and eligible nondefense programs. If the cuts
totaled $50 billion, Pentagon outlays would be slashed 13%
and applicable nondefense programs 18% across-the-board.
   So the betting in Congress and in the administration is
that the budget summit will produce some way to avoid what is
sometimes called "a planned train wreck."
   But success may come in a different guise from the "big
deal" that wipes out the deficit for all time. If no one is
prepared to live with the Gramm-Rudman cuts, then the
politically safer alternative may be to poke a new loophole
in the Gramm-Rudman law.
   Simply rewriting the Gramm-Rudman law -- as bean counters
in both the administration and the Congress are recommending
-- to ignore the unanticipated extra spending on the thrift
crisis would nearly halve Mr. Darman's $100 billion estimate.
   And with so much talk about altering budgetary accounting
in order that Congress can tell voters it's no longer raiding
the Social Security trust fund, there's bound to be some
rejiggering of the Gramm-Rudman deficit ceilings. If
negotiators can only come up with $40 billion or so of
spending cuts, tax increases and accounting gimmicks, they
surely will be tempted to adjust the targets accordingly,
declare victory and go home.
   Another possibility, one Republican senator suggests, is
agreement this fall on a plan to avert the dreaded spending
cuts, even if it can't be put into force until a lame-duck
session before Christmas.
   But for now, the administration clearly has decided to
abandon its previous public complacency about the economy and
the deficit, hoping that its scary talk about the future will
help prompt a compromise. Mr. Darman, for one, no longer
exudes optimism about the economy or confidence that the law
gives him enough flexibility to fudge the figures on the cost
of the thrift crisis.
   Robert Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget
Office, finds the talk of sudden crisis a little hard to
swallow. "I'm tempted to say: `Read my book,'" he says,
referring to a CBO budget analysis published earlier this
year. Rejecting an economic forecast that Mr. Darman defended
three months ago and now disavows, the CBO for months has
been projecting a fiscal 1991 deficit of $161 billion, or
almost $100 billion more than the $64 billion Gramm-Rudman
target.
   Some Democrats are skeptical, too, about the
administration's sudden discovery that high interest rates
threaten to produce a recession and require drastic action on
the deficit. "The problem is serious, but I'm not sure it's
of the gravity that they're saying," says Senate Budget
Committee Chairman James Sasser (D., Tenn.). "The problem
didn't suddenly reach critical mass."
   Senate Democratic Leader George Mitchell of Maine notes a
"high level of resentment and skepticism among Democrats"
toward the talks. If negotiators don't make progress in the
next two or three weeks, Sen. Sasser says, the Senate should
consider the Senate Budget Committee's budget plan to trim
the deficit by $43 billion.
   Yet the White House wasn't predicting speedy progress or
agreement in the budget negotiations. "It'll go on probably
weeks, if not months," says White House spokesman Marlin
Fitzwater. "It is not the kind of thing where anybody expects
to run in, throw a proposal on the table, and vote on it, or
anything like that."
   Mr. Fitzwater says that after today's initial 90-minute
meeting, at which President Bush will preside and make an
opening presentation, the big administration-congressional
negotiating group is likely to break up into smaller groups
to consider specific issues in detail. Those subgroups then
will report back to the full group, which includes 21
lawmakers and Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, Budget
Director Darman and White House Chief of Staff John Sununu,
as well as Mr. Bush.
   "A lot will depend on the president himself," Sen. Sasser
says. "If he sits on the sideline and lets Sununu define the
political side of it, and Darman try to define the fiscal,
budgetary side of it, they probably are not going to be
successful."
   But Sen. Sasser, who is less enthusiastic about the talks
than many others on Capitol Hill, says Mr. Bush must want the
talks to succeed "or he would not have opened up this
Pandora's box" and exposed himself to the charge that he is
abandoning his no-new-taxes pledge.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Marks &amp; Spencer PLC:
   Retailer Reports 14% Rise
   In Pretax Profit for Year
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   U.MAR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Marks &amp; Spencer PLC, a major British clothing and food
retailer, reported a 14% rise in pretax profit for the year
ended March 31, with a strong recovery in Europe offsetting
difficulties in the U.S.
   Marks &amp; Spencer said that pretax profit jumped to #604.2
million ($1.01 billion) in its latest fiscal year from #529
million a year earlier, reaching the upper limit of market
expectations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Profit after tax less minorities, or net profit
attributable to shareholders, increased 13% to #389 million
from #342.9 million the year before.
   The company reported no extraordinary items for either the
latest period or a year earlier.
   Marks &amp; Spencer's sales rose 9.5% to #5.61 billion from
#5.12 billion.
   The company said it was a "particularly good year" for
ladies' clothing sales in the United Kingdom and Ireland,
with continental Europe also showing a strong recovery in
profit and sales compared with the previous reporting year.
   Difficult trading conditions and severe price-cutting hit
Brooks Brothers, Marks &amp; Spencer's flagship store in the U.S.
But the company's mail-order division "made good increases"
there, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Kohl's Political Setback Triggers Sell-Off
   Of West German Unit Against the Dollar
   ----
   By John Bader
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Market nervousness over a weekend political
setback for West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Christian
Democrats caused a sell-off of the mark against the dollar
yesterday.
   Participants described the day's market activity as driven
by activity in mark rates, with the dollar and Swiss franc
emerging as the main beneficiaries of the West German
currency's weakness.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The mark weakened on news that Mr. Kohl's governing
coalition lost its majority in the upper house of the West
German parliament as a result of losses in state elections
Sunday, traders said. Mr. Kohl's Christian Democrats govern
in a coalition with the Bavarian Christian Social Union, a
sister party, and with the centrist Free Democrats.
   It was feared the loss of the upper house to the
left-of-center Social Democrats could complicate the
reunification process as the government tries to rush
legislation through parliament in order to meet a strict
deadline for monetary and economic unification. Mr. Kohl's
government has set July 2 as the effective date of a state
treaty covering the monetary, economic and social aspects of
the Germanys' reunification.
   Traders emphasized, however, that the market remains
bullish on the mark in the long term.
   "The election throws a wrench into the works to some
degree, but both {the Christian Democrats and Social
Democrats} still want unification" and neither will let
political bickering get in the way of the bottom line, said
Bill English, senior trader at Banca Nazionale Dell'
Agricoltura in New York.
   Despite some gains against the mark and other currencies
yesterday, the dollar exhibited the fundamental weakness that
caused its losses Friday, said John McCarthy, chief foreign
exchange dealer at Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank N.V. in New York.
   The dollar's gains yesterday came from special factors
weakening the mark, and the currency was steadied against
other units by underlying support from surging U.S. stock
prices, Mr. McCarthy said. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
ended the day at a new all-time high of 2,821.53, up 19.95
points. The previous record high had been 2,810.15 points,
reached last Jan. 2.
   The Swiss franc also benefited from the mark's weakness,
traders said. The Swiss unit attracted buyers because of
Switzerland's high interest rates and comparative political
stability, they said.
   The switch to the franc from the mark following news of
the West German election results helped the Swiss unit extend
its gains against the dollar for the second consecutive day,
they said.
   In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was quoted
at 1.6425 marks, up from its close of 1.6380 marks in very
late trading Friday. At about 4 p.m. Friday, the dollar was
at 1.6478 marks, but then subsequently continued falling to
the 1.6380-mark level.
   The dollar was quoted at 152.47 yen in late dealings
yesterday, down slightly from 152.65 yen late Friday.
Sterling was quoted at $1.6825, up from $1.6790 Friday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the U.S. currency was
quoted at 151.70 yen, down sharply from Monday's Tokyo close
of 153.35 yen. Meanwhile, the dollar was trading at about
1.6455 marks.
   Yesterday's focus on the mark relegated dollar-yen
dealings to the back burner following Friday's sharp yen
jump. The U.S. currency spent the New York day little changed
from Friday's closing level against the yen.
   Market activity generally was muted yesterday by
participants' preparation for important economic indicators
due later in the week, dealers said.
   Participants said the most important economic figure
expected during the week is the Consumer Price Index for
April, due tomorrow.
   The CPI is being awaited as a further signal of
inflationary pressure on the U.S. economy, and by extension,
an indication of which direction interest rates will take,
said Dell' Agricoltura's Mr. English and Peter Iversen, a
trader at Shawmut Bank of Boston N.A.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York yesterday, gold for
current delivery settled at $368.40 an ounce, down 40 cents.
Estimated volume was a moderate two million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Tuesday, gold was quoted at $368.45 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- National Westminster Bank PLC:
   Firm Acquires Another 40%
   In Netherlands Retail Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NW U.CUA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   National Westminster Bank PLC, Britain's second-largest
commercial bank, said it acquired a further 40% stake in Van
Lanschot's Beleggings Compagnie, raising its holdings in the
midsized Dutch retail bank to 80%.
   The purchase, the price of which wasn't disclosed, has
been expected since late January when NatWest said it was in
talks with Rabobank Nederland over the possible acquisition
of Rabobank's stake in Beleggings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Beleggings is the holding company of F. van Lanschot
Bankiers, a bank founded in 1737 and comprising 20 branches
in the Netherlands and Luxembourg.
   The move "represents a significant building block in
developing the key customer segments that are vital to our
success in Europe," said Ian Farnsworth, NatWest general
manager for European business.
   A NatWest official said the bank has no plans to acquire
the remaining 20%, most of which is held by the Lanschot
family. Britain's Commercial Union Assurance Co. PLC owns
about 5% through a Dutch subsidiary, NatWest said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   N.V. Philips
   Shares Gain
   From Shake-Up
   ----
   By Mark M. Nelson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   PHG WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   EINDHOVEN, the Netherlands -- Stock markets in Europe and
the U.S. reacted favorably to a management shake-up at N.V.
Philips, the big Dutch electronics company. But analysts and
management experts say the company still faces tough times.
   Wisse Dekker, chairman of Philips's supervisory board,
confirmed that President Cornelis van der Klugt will step
down on July 1. Mr. Dekker said the board would recommend
that Jan Timmer, currently in charge of the company's
consumer electronics division, be approved by shareholders as
the new president. He said Philips would call a special
meeting of shareholders sometime "just before July 1" to
approve the management changes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gert Lorenz, head of the company's struggling computer
division and a member of the board of management, will also
step down effective July 1. The computer business was mainly
responsible for a steep and unexpected decline in the
company's first-quarter profits, which caused a big sell-off
of Philips shares earlier this month. No successor to Mr.
Lorenz has been named.
   Philips shares recaptured some lost ground on the news of
the management changes, closing yesterday at 33.40 guilders
($18.15) on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange, up two guilders. In
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Philips rose 25
cents a share to $18.125.
   But the stock remains well below the level on May 2, the
day before Philips's announced first-quarter results, when
the stock closed at 37.70 guilders. The next morning, the
company shocked financial markets with a report that its
first-quarter operating profit amounted to only six million
guilders ($3.3 million), down from 223 million guilders a
year earlier. Those results came only a few weeks after Mr.
van der Klugt had confidently predicted that 1990 would be a
better year than 1989. (The company now says that an
improvement over last year's results is unlikely.)
   Mr. Dekker, himself a former Philips president who stepped
in to manage crisis meetings at company headquarters over the
weekend, appeared alone at yesterday's press conference. He
read a curt statement that said the big Dutch electronic
company was determined to overcome the "crisis of confidence"
that resulted from the first-quarter profit fiasco.
   He also said he had asked Mr. van der Klugt to explain why
the company had so badly overestimated its prospects, but
that Mr. van der Klugt "has no proper explanation."
   Mr. Dekker said Mr. Timmer would be given free reign to
try to fix Philips's profitability problems.
   Analysts reacted favorably to Mr. Timmer's appointment.
Most said that his reputation for toughness and bottom-line
management are exactly what the company needs. "I think
investors will be quite encouraged," said Eleanor Buss, an
analyst at Robert Fleming Securities in London.
   But analysts added that Philips now faces a wrenching set
of choices and a full-fledged rethinking of its game plan --
though time for this will be short. "Philips will really have
to ask itself a lot of fundamental questions," said Chris
Honnor, an analyst for Kleinwort Benson Securities in London.
"The basic one is whether the company really is manageable"
in its current sprawling size.
   He and others said the company's inability to predict its
performance accurately shows that it is too far-flung and has
too much bureaucracy between the marketplace and its
management. "Information has to go through too many layers
before it reaches the top decision-makers" said Willem
Burgers, an analyst at Van Meer-James Capel in Amsterdam.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Mycogen Corp.:
   Pesticide Accord Is Reached
   With S.C. Johnson &amp; Son
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MYCO
</CO>
<LP>
   Mycogen Corp. said it entered a research and development
pact with S.C. Johnson &amp; Son Inc. to develop biological
pesticides for common household pests.
   Under the agreement, S.C. Johnson, a private maker of
consumer products for home, personal care and insect control
based in Racine, Wis., will provide San Diego-based Mycogen
with an undisclosed amount of research funding. Both firms
will manufacture and market commercial products resulting
from the research.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Andrew C. Barnes, executive vice president of Mycogen,
wouldn't disclose which pests the company had targeted, but
conceded that the cockroach, ant, flea, silverfish and
termite would be obvious choices. Until now, Mycogen has
marketed biological pesticides for commercial agricultural
use only. Mycogen's products are based on natural agents such
as micro-organisms, fatty acid compounds, and highly refined
paraffinic oils.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   STOCKS SURGED AGAIN, pushing the Dow Jones industrials to
a record close of 2821.53, up 19.95, in heavy trading. But
there were signs that the rally, sparked Friday by
speculation of lower interest rates, was quickly losing
steam. Bond prices also posted solid gains, sending long-term
interest rates lower, but their advance also weakened in late
trading. The dollar continued to decline.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A new antitrust ruling by the Supreme Court made it
tougher for manufacturers or distributors to be sued for
putting a cap on retail prices. Experts said the decision is
a victory for consumers because it allows manufacturers to
cut retail prices largely without fear of a competitor suing.
   ---
   Petroleum prices rose sharply on reports that OPEC has
been cutting crude production by as much as 700,000 barrels a
day since the group's May 3 accord. There also was news of
cutbacks in North Sea output.
   ---
   The Treasury urged Congress to require Fannie Mae, Freddie
Mac and five other financing agencies to seek triple-A credit
ratings. But the move raises concern that homeowners' costs
could rise or that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac might have to
curb buying loans for low-income housing.
   ---
   Black &amp; Decker is expected to name a Chrysler executive,
Michael Hammes, to head the company's $2 billion power-tools
division.
   ---
   Business inventories were virtually unchanged in March, a
sign that managers are avoiding any buildup in stockpiles
that could lead to a recession. Sales climbed 0.6%.
   ---
   MCA is negotiating to buy HannaBarbera, the creater of
Yogi Bear, the Flintstones and other well-known cartoon
characters, from Great American Communications, sources said.
   ---
   Cray Research is trying to protect its dominance in
supercomputers by introducing a new family of relatively
inexpensive, entry-level machines.
   ---
   Varian Associates plans to cut 600 jobs and sell certain
operations to boost flagging profit and reduce its dependence
on military contracts.
   ---
   Nintendo will announce today that it's donating $3 million
to MIT to develop educational video games. The move is partly
to improve the Japanese firm's image with parents and to
expand the market for video games.
   ---
   N.V. Philips's stock rose in European and U.S. markets in
reaction to an expected management shake-up. But the Dutch
electronics giant still faces tough times, analysts said.
   ---
   New England Mutual Life hired Robert Riley, the No. 2
investment officer at Prudential Insurance, to head its
Loomis Sayles unit.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 225,410,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2821.53, up 19.95; transportation 1180.65, up 3.20; utilities
217.12, up 0.13.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3356.15, up
16.11.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.51, off 0.61;
spot index 135.42, off 0.35.
   Dollar: 152.47 yen, off 0.18; 1.6425 marks, off 0.0053.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   GE CIN MER FRE EUROP F JAPAN PG FREST F.CNT NW
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                      CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Electric Capital -- $250 million issue of 8 3/4%
bonds, due May 21, 2007, via Kidder Peabody &amp; Co., priced at
99.55 to yield 8.863%. The noncallable bonds, which may be
put back to the company May 21, 1995, were priced at a spread
of 22 basis points above the Treasury's five-year note. The
issue is rated Triple-A by both Moody's Investors Service
Inc. and by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. General Electric Capital
is a unit of General Electric Co.
   Cincinnati Gas &amp; Electric Co. -- $100 million of 10 1/8%
first mortgage bonds, due May 1, 2020, priced at 99.567 to
yield 10.17%. The bonds, which are nonrefundable for five
years, were priced at a spread of 155 basis points above the
Treasury's 8 1/2% bond maturing in 2020. Rated Baa-1 by
Moody's and triple-B-plus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold
through underwriters led by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

                       MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

   Rhode Island Housing Mortgage Finance Corp. -- $70 million
homeownership opportunity revenue bonds, Series 2, due April
1 and Oct. 1, 1992-2001, due Oct. 1, 2010 and 2021 and April
1, 2022, tentatively priced by a Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. group to
yield from 6.35% in 1992 to 7.85% in 2022. Current interest
serial bonds are priced at par to yield from 6.35% in 1992 to
7.20% in 2001. There are $10.39 million term bonds priced at
par to yield 7.80% in 2010 and $20 million term bonds priced
at par to yield 7.55% in 2021. There are $30.8 million term
bonds priced at par to yield 7.85% in 2022. Ratings of
single-A-1 by Moody's and single-A-plus by S&amp;P, are expected.
                                                                                                       

                       MORTGAGE-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. -- $300 million of GNMA-Backed Trust
Remic mortgage securities, offered in 15 classes by Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets. The offering, Series 3, is by a trust
established by Merrill Lynch. For classes on which details
are available, yields range from 9.44% to 10.50%. The issue
is backed by Ginnie Mae 9 1/2% securities, with a weighted
average remaining term to maturity of 29.4 years.
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $300 million of Remic
mortgage securities, offered in 19 classes by Kidder Peabody
&amp; Co. The offering, Series 176, is backed by Freddie Mac 10%
securities with a weighted average remaining term to maturity
of 29.4 years. The floater and inverse floater have estimated
average lives of 7.14 years.
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $300 million of Remic
mortgage securities, offered in 12 classes by BT Securities
Inc. The offering, Series 175, is backed by Freddie Mac 9
1/2% securities with a weighted average remaining term to
maturity of 29.7 years.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   International Finance Corp. (agency) -- $300 million of 9
1/4% Eurobonds due June 7, 1995, at a fixed reoffered price
of 99.65, via Deutsche Bank Capital Markets Ltd.
   Swedish National Mortgage Corp. (SBAB)(Sweden) -- $300
million of 9 1/2% Eurobonds due May 30, 1995, priced at 101
1/2 to yield 9.60% less fees, via Nomura International. Fees
1 7/8.
   Ford Capital BV (U.S. parent) -- $250 million of 9 3/4
Eurobonds due June 5, 1997, at an issue price of 101.635, via
Credit Suisse First Boston. Reoffered at a fixed price of
100.06. Guaranteed by Ford Motor Co.
   Altus Finance SA (France) -- $200 million of floating-rate
notes due June 6, 2000, at a fixed reoffered price of 99.95
via Credit Lyonnais. Coupon at 1/16 point above the six-month
London Interbank Offered Rate. Guaranteed by Credit Lyonnais.
Callable on any coupon date at par after the fifth year.
   Japan Development Bank (Japan) -- $150 million of 9 1/2%
Eurobonds due June 11, 1997, priced at 101.70 to yield 9.54%,
via LTCB International Ltd. Guaranteed by Japan.
   Procter &amp; Gamble Co. (U.S.) -- 125 billion lire of 13%
Eurobonds due Dec. 29, 1993, priced at 101.80 via Istituto
Bancario San Paolo di Torino.
   National Westminster Australia Bank (Australia) -- 25
million Australian dollars of 15 1/8% Eurobonds due May 10,
1993, priced at 101.75 via NatWest Capital Markets.
Guaranteed by National Westminster Bank. Fungible with an
existing 50-million Australian dollar issue launched in
March, from the payment date.
   Caisse Nationale des Telecommunications (France) -- 200
million Swiss francs of 7 1/4% public bonds due June 19,
2000, priced at 101 1/4, via Credit Suisse. Guarantee by
French Republic. Call from June 19, 1998 at 102.
   New Zealand -- 300 million Deutsche marks of floating-rate
notes due June 8, 1997, priced at 1/16 point under the
three-month London Interbank Offered Rate at par, via
CSFB-Effectenbank. First LIBOR rate will be fixed June 6.
Callable beginning June 8, 1995 at par.
   OKOBANK (Finland) -- 200 million Deutsche marks of
floating-rate notes at the six-month London Interbank Offered
Rate plus 0.045 point, priced at 100.30 due June 15, 2000 via
DG Bank. First LIBOR fixing June 11. Put and call beginning
June 15 1995.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pic `N' Save Corp.:
   Partnership Says Big Holder
   Is Supporting Its Proxy Bid
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   PICN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   A partnership controlled by David H. Batchelder that is
trying to oust the board of Pic `N' Save Corp. said a large
shareholder agreed to support the partnership's slate.
   Bill M. Thomas, who owns about 1.4 million Pic `N' Save
shares, or 4% of the 35.4 million shares outstanding, also
has agreed to be one of the nominees of Girard Partners L.P.,
according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Girard holds 6.6% of Pic `N' Save.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Thomas, who is in his mid-50s, was the company's
executive vice president and chief financial officer for
about eight years until April 1987. The partnership has
nominated four other men to the company's seven-member board.
   A spokesman for the Dominguez, Calif.-based discount
retailer declined to comment.
   Girard has been soliciting consents from holders in
support of its slate and has said it is seeking access to the
company's nonpublic financial information to make a bid to
acquire the company. Girard also has threatened a proxy
contest at the June 20 annual meeting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Kohl Hints at Setting December Date
   For Unified Election After Party Losses
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BONN -- Reeling from his party's losses in two key state
elections, West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl is now hinting
that combined German national elections could come as early
as December.
   By pushing up the potential date for a combined vote from
sometime late next year, Mr. Kohl obliquely raised the
possibility that the next election involving him would be for
chancellor of a united Germany rather than of West Germany
alone. Given the poor showing of his Christian Democrats
party during the weekend, it appears a unified German
election would give him a better chance to win.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This weekend's voting signals the depth of his problems.
In North Rhine-Westphalia and Lower Saxony, two states that
together account for more than 40% of the nation's registered
voters, Mr. Kohl's Christian Democrats suffered embarrassing
defeats and lost control of the upper house of the West
German parliament, made up of representatives from the
states. The elections were touted as litmus tests of Bonn's
policy on German unity.
   Mr. Kohl is thought to privately favor a combined election
in December, which would effectively merge the two nations
into a single political entity. But he has never openly
endorsed such a plan, and he has no power to dictate such a
proposal.
   In a news conference, Mr. Kohl said he didn't "rule out"
an election taking place in East Germany on the same day as
the West German Bundestag election, set for Dec. 2. But he
didn't elaborate.
   West German sources say that the weekend election has left
Mr. Kohl on the political defensive and in need of a strategy
shift. "The elections in those two states have added to the
pressure to just hold a combined German election and get it
over with," says one government official.
   The West German leader would almost certainly stand a
better chance in a combined German vote. In East Germany's
first free elections, which took place in March, the
Christian Democrats, the sister party to Mr. Kohl's party in
the West, scored a dazzling victory over the Social
Democrats.
   Mr. Kohl is also under pressure from his political allies
in Bonn to push for an early combined election. The leader of
the Free Democrats, Otto Lambsdorff, repeated his party's
call for a merged German election on Dec. 2 or Jan. 13. The
Free Democrats are the junior partner in Bonn's
right-of-center coalition. Mr. Lambsdorff, who heaped all
blame for the weekend's election results on Mr. Kohl's
Christian Democrats, said the longer the country waited for
unification, the more difficult it would become.
   Against this background, Germans on both sides of the
border appear to be having second thoughts about the rush
toward early unity. East Germans are worried about the impact
of massive unemployment and other uncertainties as they
plunge into a free-market system, while the West Germans are
beginning to grumble about the potential costs to their own
highly prosperous society.
   These anxieties have created a ripe target for the
opposition Social Democrats, who have campaigned on the idea
that Bonn is moving too fast.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Mission Insurance Group Inc.:
   Unit's Rehabilitation Plan
   Is Approved by U.S. Court
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Mission Insurance Group Inc. said a federal court approved
the company's rehabilitation agreement for unit Mission
Insurance Cos. that, among other things, calls for the
transfer of $29 million in assets to government trusts.
   The Los Angeles-based insurer has been in bankruptcy-law
proceedings since 1987. Its insolvency was one of the largest
insurance-company failures in history.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The California Insurance Commission must resolve certain
tax issues in connection with the plan.
   Under the plan, the assets and liabilities of Mission
Insurance Cos. will be transferred to trusts overseen by the
California insurance commissioner. The transfer is to include
$14 million in cash and 5.9 million Mission Insurance Group
common shares, representing about 29% of the stock
outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Spain's CPI Rose 0.2% in April
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MADRID -- Spain's consumer price index rose 0.2% in April
from March despite a sharp drop in food prices, the country's
National Statistics Institute said.
   The monthly increase brings Spain's year-to-year inflation
rate to 7%, unchanged from March and down from 7.3% in
February.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Prices excluding food prices climbed 0.7% in April from
March. Food prices fell 0.6% in April from March with the
year-onyear increase in food prices at 7.4% at the end of
April.
   The inflation figures fell within analysts' expectations,
which called for a rise in the CPI of between 0.2% and 0.4%.
   At the end of April, the consumer price index stood at
161.8 from 161.4 in March. The index is based on 1983 equals
100.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Head of Southland
   Communications Inc.
   Is Target of SEC Suit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A26
</SO>
<CO>
   SCII
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a
civil suit in federal court in Manhattan accusing Ahmad
Bayaa, the president of Southland Communications Inc., and
five others of a scheme to manipulate the price of Southland
Communications stock.
   The SEC suspended trading in Southland Communications, a
Santa Ana, Calif., company that leases pagers, in early April
because of questions about control of the company's stock. In
the civil suit, the agency accused the defendants of
arranging transactions to boost the price of the securities
by "creating the false illusion of widespread market
interest." The suit also accuses them of violating securities
law by not disclosing that they controlled more than 5% of
the stock.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ahmad Bayaa and other Southland Communications officials
couldn't be reached for comment.
   The SEC alleges in the suit that the price of Southland
Communications securities almost doubled between March 13 and
April 3, although there were no positive company developments
to account for the price rise. The lawsuit charged that the
stock price was manipulated in the face of heavy short
selling, which usually indicates that investors expect the
price of a security to decline.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Greyhound Lines Inc.:
   Carrier Sets Charter Fleets
   In Focus Markets for 1990
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR X.GRE
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Greyhound Lines Inc. said it will operate charter fleets
in 19 focus markets for the remainder of 1990. The unit of
Dallas-based GLI Holding Inc. had charter sales offices in 34
cities prior to the continuing strike by 9,400 employees
represented by the Amalgamated Transit Union.
   Frank Schmieder, president and chief operating officer,
said the company selected the 19 metropolitan markets to
launch its revamped charter operation "because of their
strong year-round charter business."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Each location will have a dedicated fleet of buses
reserved for charter customers. In the past, charter buses
were drawn from the intercity passenger fleet. The new system
will result in improved maintenance of charter coaches, the
company said.
   The restructuring of charter operations marks another
attempt by the debt-burdened bus company to rebuild revenues
that have been battered by the ATU strike that began March 2.
The company announced last week that it was holding talks
with lenders, creditors and suppliers in hopes of
restructuring its lending agreements and debt payments.
   No new negotiations have been scheduled with the striking
union.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Apple Bancorp Inc.:
   Holders Requested to Reject
   Proxy Fight by Bidder Stahl
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   APK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Apple Bancorp Inc. urged shareholders to reject a proxy
fight organized by Stanley Stahl and affirmed its rejection
of the New York real-estate investor's $38-a-share tender
offer.
   The New York-based parent of Apple Bank for Savings told
shareholders in a letter, "We believe that it is coercive for
Mr. Stahl to condition his offer on having you first vote to
give him control" of Apple before the board "has had a full
opportunity to explore and pursue financially more-attractive
alternatives."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Stahl, who controls 30.6% of Apple and has offered
$121.6 million for the rest, declined to comment on the
letter, which Apple disclosed as part of a Securities and
Exchange Commission filing. The company and Mr. Stahl have
lawsuits pending against each other.
   Apple's directors haven't set a date for the annual
meeting; Mr. Stahl's lawsuit demands, among other things,
that the board set such a date. The company has said that the
board hasn't set the date in order to allow time to explore
alternatives to Mr. Stahl's bid.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Apple shares closed at $44, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Portfolio Managers' Buying Spree Pushes Prices
   Of Bonds Up; 30-Year Treasury Gains 5/8 Point
   ----
   By Sam Alcorn and Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   HBJ MZ RJR X.TMP SLCPC JAPAN EUROP CMDA
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Fixed-income portfolio managers, worried about
missing the strongest bond market rally this year, went on a
buying spree.
   The buying pushed bond prices moderately higher. The
Treasury's new benchmark 30-year bond, which climbed more
than two points on Friday, rose 5/8 point yesterday for a
gain of $6.25 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said many of the buyers were institutional
investors who had been waiting until the Treasury's huge
$30.5 billion refunding auction was complete before venturing
into the market.
   These investors believed that a poorly received auction
would force bond dealers to cut prices, so they decided to
wait until after the auction to buy bonds. However, last
week's note and bond auction was considered a success.
Moreover, bond prices rose sharply on Friday after two
economic reports reinforced the view that interest rates are
heading lower.
   "There has been an extraordinary change in psychology,"
said F. Ward McCarthy Jr., managing director at Stone &amp;
McCarthy Research Associates Inc. "Investors who were
reluctant to buy bonds ahead of the auction {now} feel uneasy
about having missed something."
   Meanwhile, the focus of the bond market has shifted to
Washington, where Congress and the White House begin
negotiations today on a compromise to shrink the swelling
budget deficit. In March, the latest month for which Treasury
data are available, the deficit widened to a monthly record
of $53.3 billion.
   Traders said deficit-reduction talks have contributed to
the market's positive tone. Although many market players are
somewhat skeptical that the talks will lead to a concrete
deficit-cutting accord, they are more hopeful than they have
been in the past.
   "I think this is another ritual dance," said Victor Chang,
president of V.C. Management Co., an investment advisory
firm. "However, I do think conditions have deteriorated
enough that something positive will come out of it."
   He said the bond market, having lived with prior year
deficits and little significant progress on reducing the
deficits, has "become a little jaded about any really
substantial headway in these matters. But this time, because
of the thrift crisis and because we're so far behind on this
process, everyone has just concluded that something will come
out of it, that something will be done," said Mr. Chang.
   Ian MacKinnon, bond manager at Vanguard Group of
Investment Cos. in Valley Forge, Pa., said he would look
"favorably upon initiatives to raise taxes" as a way to cut
the deficit. He said the move could pave the way for lower
interest rates.
   "It would have a slowing effect on the economy as revenues
are diverted toward cutting the deficit, with beneficial
effects on inflation, as well as reducing" the supply of
Treasury securities used to finance the deficit, said Mr.
MacKinnon.
   Marshall Front, a partner at the investment advisory firm
Stein Roe &amp; Farnham, Chicago, also believes that a
deficit-reduction package could help result in lower interest
rates.
   "Easing inflation, slowing business activity, the budget
summitry all create preconditions for lower long-term and
short-term rates," said Mr. Front. He said long-term U.S.
interest rates may work themselves down to about 8 3/8% to 8
1/2% in the near future.
   The one possible big negative, he said, is if interest
rates "come down too quickly, it could hurt the dollar and
upset the financial markets."
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The new benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 101
24/32 to yield 8.58%, up from a price of 101 4/32 to yield
8.63% on Friday. The latest 10-year notes ended at a price of
101 22/32 to yield 8.60%, up from 101 14/32 to yield 8.64% on
Friday.
   Short-term interest rates were lower at the Treasury's
weekly bill auction, compared with rates at last week's
auction.
   The government sold $16.86 billion of three-month and
six-month bills. The average rate on the three-month bills
was 7.67%, while the average rate on the six-month bills was
7.68%.
   Those rates were down from last week's auction, when they
were 7.79% and 7.84%, respectively.
   Here are auction details:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                              13-Week           26-Week
                                                                                                       

   Applications ......... $32,582,680,000   $28,518,610,000
   Accepted bids ........  $8,422,865,000    $8,438,000,000
   Accepted at low price              98%               50%
   Accepted noncompet'ly   $1,724,300,000    $1,293,935,000
   Average price (Rate)..  98.061 (7.67%)    96.117 (7.68%)
   High price (Rate) ....  98.064 (7.66%)    96.122 (7.67%)
   Low price (Rate) .....  98.061 (7.67%)    96.117 (7.68%)
   Coupon equivalent ....           7.93%               10%
                                                                                                       

   Both issues are dated May 17. The 13-week bills mature
Aug. 16, and the 26-week bills mature Nov. 15.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   The Treasury's recommendation that the Federal National
Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.
and other government-sponsored enterprises raise their credit
standings to meet triple-A status, had little impact on the
mortgage-backed securities market.
   These government-sponsored enterprises are the largest
issuers of mortgage securities. Although the recommendation
caused the stock prices of many government corporations to
tumble yesterday, most mortgage securities were unaffected by
the news.
   Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. and Moody's Investors Service Inc.
currently rate the debt of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
triple-A. But S&amp;P said that without the support of the
federal government, the agencies would be rated triple-B or
single-A.
   But the Student Loan Marketing Association would have a
top-notch credit rating without its ties to the federal
government, according to S&amp;P. Sallie Mae common stock came
under pressure, ending at 48 3/4, down 1 3/8.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   Cheered by gains in the equity market, junk bond investors
bid up high-yield issues, driving prices of most actively
traded bonds more than 1/4 point higher.
   The advance was broad-based and included such well-known
high-yield names as RJR Nabisco Inc., R.H. Macy &amp; Co. and
Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc.
   Although trading volume wasn't exceptionally heavy, junk
bond traders said there was evidence of active buying
interest among a variety of players, including investors who
traditionally buy stocks.
   "A lot of people are trying to buy paper that they think
is dramatically undervalued," said David Feinman, a
high-yield trader at Los Angeles-based Jefferies &amp; Co.
   Among the bonds that climbed were RJR's 13.71% convertible
pay-in-kind debentures, maturing in 2009, which chalked up 1
3/8 point to end at 83. The other widely held RJR issue, the
13.71% exchangeable pay-in-kind debentures, due in 2007,
added 3/4 point to finish at 69 1/2.
   Macy's 14 1/2% senior subordinated debentures, maturing in
1998, moved up a point to end at 71 3/4. Trump Taj Mahal's
14% bonds rose 3/4 point to 69 1/2 on the expectation that
the company will make coupon payments due today.
   There were glaring exceptions to yesterday's bullish
market. The junk bonds of Charter Medical Corp. and Southland
Corp. fell on poor earnings reports.
   Charter Medical's 14% senior subordinated debentures lost
another five points to end at 49 in the wake of sharply lower
second-quarter earnings. The bonds, which were trading at 70
in early March, dropped five points Friday after the earnings
report was first released.
   Charter Medical bonds have lost ground ever since the
company reported in mid-March that accounting errors would
result in an increase in its first-quarter loss.
   The junk bonds of Southland, the Dallas-based convenience
store operator, weakened by more than a point on news that
the cash-strapped firm reported a first-quarter operating
loss of $121.5 million, compared with an operating loss of
$113.4 million in the year earlier.
   Among the biggest losers were Southland's 16 3/4%
subordinated debentures that shed more than a point to end at
7.
   In the market for investment-grade corporate bonds, prices
ended between 1/4 to 1/2 point higher.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals
                                                                                                       

   Narrowly underperforming U.S. Treasurys, municipal bonds
were trading as much as 1/2 point higher in late dealings.
   Meanwhile, short-term municipal issues were unchanged,
traders said.
   Despite the lack of supply and thin trading activity,
traders characterized the market's tone as firm ahead of the
next round of economic data today.
   In a light new-issue market, a Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. group
set the preliminary pricing for $70 million of Rhode Island
Housing Mortgage Finance Corp. homeownership opportunity
revenue bonds. This week, more than $1.7 billion in new debt
is scheduled to hit the market.
   In secondary action, New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20%
issue of 2018 was 3/8 higher at 98 1/4 bid to yield 7.33%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   West German government bonds fell more than 1/2 point in
reaction to Sunday's defeat of the conservative Christian
Democrats in local elections.
   Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Christian Democrats were heavily
beaten by rival Social Democrats in the states of Lower
Saxony and North Rhine-Westfalia, which together contain more
than 40% of the nation's voters.
   West Germany's 7 3/4% bond due 2000 fell 0.53 point to
94.80 to yield 8.55%.
   In Japan, bond prices ended stronger, reflecting a rise in
the value of the yen and a decline in short-term interest
rates. Rates on three-month certificates of deposit fell to
about 7.36%, down from 7.4% on Friday.
   Dealers say that while most of the activity involved
dealers trading on the foreign-exchange action, there was
also investor buying.
   "There was talk that investors have begun to reconstruct
their portfolios," said one dealer.
   At the close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, Japan's
benchmark 10-year bond was quoted at 87.69, up 0.34 point to
yield 7.02%. The price rose further in over-the-counter
trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   GORBACHEV CALLED the independence bids by Latvia and
Estonia invalid.
   In a pair of presidential decrees read on Soviet
television, the Kremlin leader said the independence
declarations by the two Baltic republics violated the Soviet
constitution and a recent law on secession. He said the
proclamations were null and void from the time of their
adoption. Gorbachev didn't indicate what steps might be taken
to counter the drives. But following Lithuania's March 11
declaration, Moscow reduced supplies of oil and natural gas
in a partial economic blockade that remains in effect.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Secretary of State Baker prepared for four days of talks
in Moscow on lagging arms accords. He also is expected to
discuss pacts on space, the environment and trade with the
Soviets.
   ---
   Kohl indicated that combined German national elections
could be held as early as this December. By pushing up the
potential date for such balloting, Kohl, whose party lost two
crucial state elections Sunday, raised the possibility that
the next vote involving him would be for chancellor of a
reunited Germany.
   ---
   A Justice Department shake-up continued as Attorney
General Thornburgh's top aide, Robert Ross, said he will
resign and chief spokesman David Runkel was moved to an
advisory role in which he won't deal directly with the media.
   ---
   The Supreme Court refused to lift a Georgia judge's
injunction barring an anti-abortion group from blocking
access to abortion clinics in Atlanta. The injunction was
issued against Operation Rescue, which has led demonstrations
at facilities throughout the country. The group argued that
the order infringes on its free-speech rights.
                                                                                                       

   The justices failed to give any indication that they view
a new federal law outlawing flag burning more favorably than
a Texas statute struck down last June. Five of the justices
posed questions during an argument in which the solicitor
general defended the law and a civil-liberties lawyer argued
it is unconstitutional.
   ---
   Bush conferred with black leaders in an attempt to reach a
compromise on a job discrimination measure. The Justice
Department last month raised the threat of a presidential
veto of the legislation, which it regards as containing
hiring quotas.
   ---
   Police in the Philippines clashed with protesters in
Manila, and Communist rebels threatened attacks as U.S. and
Philippine negotiators opened talks on the future of six
American military bases. At least 55 people were reported
injured in the violent demonstrations. About 80 people were
arrested.
   ---
   France's Mitterrand joined as many as 200,000 people in a
march in Paris to protest desecrations of Jewish cemeteries.
The anti-Semitism rally was called in response to vandalism
last week at a graveyard in Carpentras, where tombs were
smashed and a corpse unearthed and mutilated.
   ---
   West German authorities confiscated about 37 tons of
machinery suspected of being a "super cannon" destined for
Iraq. The equipment was seized by customs officials in
Frankfurt. Britain, Italy and other European countries have
made similar seizures of Iraqi-bound gear in recent weeks.
   ---
   Israel's Shamir ordered a gradual reopening of six
Palestinian universities in the occupied West Bank and Gaza
Strip, which were closed after the start of the Arab uprising
in December 1987. Separately, convicted war criminal
Demjanjuk launched an appeal of his death sentence,
contending that the trial judges in his case were biased.
   ---
   Iranian-backed Hezbollah urged Moslem factions in Lebanon
to continue holding their Western hostages until Israel
releases Arab prisoners. The group made its appeal as it
sponsored a sit-in by about 50 women at a house in Beirut
belonging to the U.N. peacekeeping force in southern Lebanon.
   ---
   Troops and riot police in Jordan tossed tear gas and smoke
bombs to block stone-throwing demonstrators from crossing
into the Israeli-occupied West Bank during a pro-Palestinian
march. More than 100 people were reported injured in the
clash.
   ---
   Bush met in Washington with Senegal's President Diouf, who
is concerned that Iraq may be building a test site for
long-range missiles in Mauritania. The African leader's
weeklong visit is expected to include talks with Commerce and
Treasury officials, and the heads of the IMF and World Bank.
   ---
   Nicaragua decreed strikes by public workers illegal, urged
an immediate return to work and threatened to dismiss anyone
who doesn't comply. The move by President Violeta Chamorro's
19-day-old government came as about 10,000 workers
participated in a walkout to demand wage increases.
   ---
   The U.S. and Iran signed a $105 million pact to settle
more than 2,300 U.S. financial claims arising from the 1979
Iranian revolution. The move opens the way for talks on
Iran's claim for an estimated $10 billion over undelivered
U.S. military equipment.
   ---
   Masked gunmen raided a high-stakes dice game at a Fort
Worth, Texas, cafe, killing at least four people in what
police believe was a robbery. In San Francisco's Chinatown
section, gunmen with automatic weapons killed one man and
wounded seven people, and Chicago police charged a man with
Sunday's killing of two officers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Patrick Petroleum Co.:
   Company Sells $20 Million
   Of 10.75% Eight-Year Notes
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PPC WX
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Patrick Petroleum Co. said it has sold $20 million of
10.75% eight-year subordinated collateralized notes to a
group of institutional investors. Non-callable warrants,
which expire in 1997, to purchase 800,000 shares of Patrick
common stock were also issued to the participants.
   The Jackson, Mich.-based oil and gas exploration company
said it will use proceeds to repay existing credit lines and
provide "additional financial flexibility" to support its
continuing oil and gas acquisition programs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The notes, which are due in 1998, are secured by Patrick
Petroleum's equity ownership in Penske Corp. and its Penske
Transportation Inc. unit.
   The institutional investors, headed by Westinghouse Credit
Corp. of Pittsburgh, a unit of Westinghouse Electric Corp.,
also include Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co. of
Hartford, Conn., and General American Life Insurance Co. of
St. Louis. Boettcher &amp; Co., of Denver, served as the private
placement agent and financial adviser to the company.
   "This is the best way to continue the rapid expansion of
our oil and gas operations while maintaining the benefits of
our Penske securities," said Patrick's president, U.E.
Patrick, in a prepared statement. "We remain committed to our
Penske investments and will continue to receive the benefits
of future dividends and capital appreciation. Also, we will
profit from this fixed-rate component of our capitalization
and our relationship with these substantial financial
institutions."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AmBase Posts Loss
   Totaling $42 Million
   For Three Months
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ABC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK, N.Y. -- AmBase Corp. reported a first-quarter
loss of $42 million, or $1.24 a share, after realizing losses
on its junk-bond portfolio and beefing up reserves for its
thrift unit.
   The insurance and financial-services company also
suspended its quarterly five-cent common stock dividend. The
company is already facing hordes of dissatisfied
institutional investors who own about 40% of AmBase's shares
outstanding. They've seen the value of their holdings plummet
from a high of about 31 in 1986 to the current $6.375, up
12.5 cents, where the stock closed yesterday in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AmBase said it still plans to pay a special dividend to
shareholders when it completes the sale of its Home Insurance
Co. unit, which has been on the block since February.
   During the first quarter, AmBase realized $42 million in
investment losses at its insurance units. The company said
the losses reflect the deterioration in the high-yield bond
market and a decision to reduce the level on noninvestment
grade holdings in the portfolio. The company added that the
investment portfolios of these units are being repositioned
to reduce the credit risks associated with investments in
high-yield bonds.
   The company earned $26 million or 75 cents a share in the
1989 first quarter. Revenues in the latest quarter fell 8.3%
to $777 million.
   The company said it expects to sign a new bank credit
agreement this month. The new financing will be used to repay
all existing bank debt and provide working capital until the
sale of Home Insurance Co. The new facility will be fully
repaid when the sale is closed, AmBase said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Stock Exchange Seat
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The American Stock Exchange said two seats
were sold, for $140,000 and then $143,000, compared with the
$135,000 a seat drew on May 4.
   Seats currently are quoted at $140,000 bid and $250,000
asked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN FREST J.CTW EUROP LABOR JAPAN J.NIW
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   THE WORLD'S POPULATION
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The world population will increase by one billion in the
1990s, an increase that may prove catastrophic to the
environment, a United Nations report predicted.
   The estimate of growth in the world population --
currently 5.3 billion -- outstrips all previous forecasts,
the State of the World Population report from the U.N.
Population Fund said. The environment and poorer countries,
where 90% of the rise will occur, will suffer most as the
population increases by three people every second -- about a
quarter of a million each day -- the report said.
   The report said that while the industrialized countries
were mainly responsible for damage to the ozone layer and for
roughly two-thirds of global warming, the combination of
poverty and population growth was causing deforestation and
land degradation in the developing world.
   The 1990s will see greater growth than any decade in human
history, with 90 million to 100 million more people each
year, the report said. During the next century, it predicted,
global population will probably double and could triple.
                                                                                                       

   INDIA CLEANSES FILM INDUSTRY
                                                                                                       

   India, whose huge film industry turns out more than 700
films a year, has ordered censors to purge the nation's
movies of sex and violence, said Information and Broadcasting
Minister Parvathaneni Upendra. Although Indian films are
conservative by Western standards -- both nudity and kissing
are banned -- rape scenes are common, and "Scenes glorifying
sex and violence have crossed the limits of decency," Mr.
Upendra said. Under new rules, censors would also refuse to
approve movies promoted by posters showing vulgar scenes, he
said.

   SOUTH KOREA FIGHTS CORRUPTION
                                                                                                       

   As part of a new anti-corruption investigation of
government officials in South Korea, the prosecutor general's
office announced the arrest of four present or former Seoul
city officers. The four were charged with taking bribes
ranging from $14,000 to $47,000 from a businessman in 1988
for giving him favors in issuing permits to build a hotel in
downtown Seoul, prosecutors said. President Roh Tae Woo
appointed a 54-member presidential task force Saturday to
root out corruption by year's end.
                                                                                                       

   CITIZEN'S EAST BLOC PLANS
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Citizen Watch Co. will begin marketing its watches
in Eastern Europe through local agents, a company spokeswoman
said. Citizen's West German subsidiary, Citizen Watch Europe
G.m.b.H, will find companies and shops to sell watches priced
between 3,000 yen (about $20) to 5,000 yen, according to the
spokesman. The move is the first major attempt by a Japanese
watchmaker to enter the rapidly changing region, she said.
The company plans to sell 100,000 watches annually in the
region.
                                                                                                       

   HONG KONG'S JOBLESS
                                                                                                       

   Hong Kong's jobless rate rose to 1.7% in the first quarter
from 1.3% in the previous quarter, marking its highest level
since mid-1988. While the colony's labor shortage has been a
prime factor behind spiraling local prices, Jason Kwok,
senior economist at Bank of East Asia, warned that it's
premature to say inflation may be easing. "I'd like to wait
to see data for a few more months," he said. "We also have to
take into account what the property market will be doing
before making any pronouncements about inflation."
                                                                                                       

   SOVIETS' LATE BILL PAYMENTS
                                                                                                       

   Japan reportedly doubled the rate on export insurance to
the Soviet Union after hearing from major Japanese trading
houses that Soviet trading organizations were late in paying
their bills. A spokesman for trading house Nissho Iwa Corp.
said the government raised the export-insurance rate for
several products, such as steel, chemical products and
textiles. The insurance rate varies according to product, and
specific rates aren't released, but trading-house officials
say that the rate has been raised to an average of about
0.02% from about 0.01%.
                                                                                                       

   CZECHOSLOVAK TELEVISION
                                                                                                       

   Czechoslovak television started an experimental broadcast
on a third channel yesterday that incorporates U.S, Soviet
and West European programs.
   The broadcast, which replaced Soviet programming formerly
available on the same channel, will reach approximately 30%
of Czechoslovakia's territory, the Socialist daily Svobodne
Slovo said. Of the other two Czechoslovak channels, one
broadcasts nationwide and the other provides regional
programming.
   The programming of the third channel was made available by
foreign TV stations such as La Sept and TV 5 of France, CNN
of the U.S. and the U.S.-government run World Net and Soviet
television.
   The third channel will include language courses, sports,
news, and music, Svobodne Slovo said.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Dogs unleashed by suspicious Bangkok residents have
hampered a population survey by biting at least 40 census
takers, a Thai census official said. Other residents,
thinking the census takers were burglars, threw stones and
hot water at them. . . . A Swedish court awarded Bjorn Borg
$12,500 in damages from a magazine that published an article
alleging he was a cocaine addict. The 33-year-old tennis
champion had sued the Swedish satirical magazine Z for
$57,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MacMillan Bloedel
   To Close its Largest
   Pulp Mill for 2 Weeks
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MMBLF T.NF
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- MacMillan Bloedel Ltd. said
it will close its biggest pulp mill for two weeks beginning
June 25, because of soft market conditions.
   The temporary closure of the Harmac pulp mill, near
Nanaimo, British Columbia, will reduce MacMillan Bloedel's
inventory of bleached pulp by about 16,000 metric tons, it
said. The move follows an extended maintenance closedown at
Harmac in March, which curtailed the mill's output by about
15,000 metric tons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last year, Harmac produced 370,000 metric tons of market
pulp, accounting for about 75% of MacMillan Bloedel's total
market pulp output. Market pulp is wood pulp that is sold on
the open market, to producers of paper and other products.
   A metric ton equals about 2,204.62 pounds.
   MacMillan Bloedel, 49.9%-owned by Toronto-based Noranda
Forest Inc., said the closure will affect 800 workers at the
mill and about 100 workers at the company's Thunderbird
sawmill, which is scheduled to close for maintenance during
the same period.
   Canadian shipments of market pulp fell 13% in March,
compared with March, 1989. The big drop in shipments left
producers with 532,000 metric tons of inventory, a 30day
supply. That compared with year-earlier inventory of just
290,000 metric tons, or a 14-day supply.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wilfred American
   Seeks Protection
   Under Chapter 11
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   WAE
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Wilfred American Educational Corp., the
beauty-school operator, sought protection against lawsuits
from creditors by filing under Chapter 11 of the federal
bankruptcy law.
   "The company was compelled to take this action" for a
number of reasons, said Philip E. Jakeway Jr., chairman and
chief executive officer. These include denials of the
company's claims for reimbursement by the federal Education
Department. Wilfred derives much of its revenue from
government student-loan programs. Also forcing the filing
were legal costs, operating losses and changes in government
policies, Mr. Jakeway said in a statement. Wilfred officials
were unavailable for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Wilfred's shares closed unchanged at 56.25 cents. The Big
Board said yesterday that in light of the bankruptcy-law
filing, it is reviewing whether to continue listing Wilfred's
shares.
   The company's problems stem from an October 1988
indictment of Mr. Jakeway and a number of other employees. A
Tampa, Fla., federal grand jury charged them with misusing
financial-aid funds. In March 1989, nine of the other
employees entered so-called Alford pleas, agreeing to plead
guilty to certain charges but denying any wrongdoing. The
trial for the remaining defendants is scheduled for January
1991.
   In October 1989, a federal grand jury in Massachusetts
indicted the company on mail fraud charges. The company
denied the charges, and the case is scheduled for trial in
June.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Searle to Offer Free Trials
   Of Blood Pressure Drug
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MTC
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   SKOKIE, Ill. -- G.D. Searle &amp; Co. said it will introduce a
blood pressure medicine in the U.S. by giving it away for six
months.
   Under what the drug company calls its Patient Plus
program, Searle will provide doctors with vouchers to be
given to patients with their prescriptions for the drug
Kerlone. The vouchers can be redeemed at pharmacies as
prescriptions for the drug are filled.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Searle, a unit of Monsanto Co., a St. Louis-based
diversified chemicals company, is introducing Kerlone into a
crowded market of drugs called beta blockers. Two of the
biggest competitors will be Tenormin, sold by Imperial
Chemical Industries PLC; and Lopressor, sold by Ciba-Geigy
Ltd.
   The Searle vouchers cover both the pharmacist's dispensing
fee and the wholesale cost of the drug -- which for six
months would run from about $100 to $150, depending on the
dosage prescribed. Patients can be enrolled in the program
from May 15 until Aug. 31. A spokeswoman for Searle said the
company hasn't estimated the total value of the drug to be
given away.
   Searle said it hopes Kerlone will win favor with doctors
because of its sustained action in the body.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Copperweld Opens Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   COS
</CO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Copperweld Corp. said it started up its $20
million structural-tubing-production facility in Birmingham,
Ala.
   Copperweld said it expects the facility, which began
shipping May 1, to generate about $30 million in revenue in
its initial year of operation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition to tubing, Copperweld produces wire, cable and
rods.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   `False Impressions' Can Spur Libel Suits,
   Even if News Media Get the Facts Right
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   For media companies, the truth has long been considered
the best defense in a libel suit. But it may not be enough
anymore.
   In a growing number of cases, public figures are suing on
grounds that an article created a false impression, even if
each statement taken separately was true. And recently,
juries have shown a willingness to grant big awards in such
cases.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Media defense lawyers contend the suits have the potential
to chill debate about matters of public interest. Defending a
false-impression suit "is like trying to nail a jellyfish to
the wall," says Richard Winfield, a partner and First
Amendment lawyer with Rogers &amp; Wells, New York. "Impressions
are amorphous and imprecise."
   Lawyers for public figures, however, contend that news
organizations use that argument as a shield for publishing
unfair stories on sensational topics. These lawyers maintain
that the courts never intended to protect news organizations
when a story conveys an incorrect impression. They say courts
have gone too far in allowing reporters to hide behind the
First Amendment while hinting at wrongdoing that can ruin a
person's reputation.
   Courts have ruled both ways on the issue, and the Supreme
Court has never expressly ruled on liability in
false-impression cases. But the high court may get a chance
to decide the issue in a closely watched case against the
Duluth, Minn., News-Tribune that Minnesota's Supreme Court
ruled on last week.
   The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that public figures can't
win a libel case unless they prove that a statement was
false, defamatory and published with knowledge of its
falseness or reckless disregard of whether it was true or
false. So when a state court jury in Duluth ruled against the
Duluth newspaper two years ago in a false-impression suit, "I
was shocked," says Thomas R. Thibodeau, a partner in the
Duluth law firm of Johnson, Killen, Thibodeau &amp; Seiler, and a
lawyer for the newspaper. "At trial, the plaintiff had
testified that every statement in the articles was true."
   The plaintiff, Donald J. Diesen, former county attorney
for Carlton County, Minn., alleged that he had been defamed
by implication. He claimed the newspaper's series concerning
his handling of domestic-abuse cases left the impression that
he wasn't enforcing the law when it came to assaults on
women. The jury awarded him more than $750,000.
   Last week, the Minnesota Supreme Court reversed the lower
court's decision, ruling that public officials can't
generally prevail in false-impression suits. The court held
that because the articles contained true statements or
opinions, any implications were constitutionally protected
criticism of a public official.
   Patrick T. Tierney, a lawyer for Mr. Diesen and a partner
with Collins, Buckley, Sauntry &amp; Haugh, St. Paul, Minn.,
says, "There is great concern about what the media will now
be able to do to public officials. As long as each sentence
is accurate when read out of context, the media can string
together a series of sentences that intentionally and
deliberately create a false impression." Mr. Tierney plans to
appeal the case to the U.S. Supreme Court.
   The decision by Minnesota's highest court was hardly
definitive. Mr. Thibodeau, the newspaper's lawyer, says the
court didn't completely bar false-impression suits in cases
where it can be shown that a reporter omitted facts that
might have changed the tenor of a story.
   Showing that reporters intended to convey a false
impression is the strategy of entertainer Wayne Newton in his
legal battle with General Electric Co.'s National
Broadcasting Co. unit. The suit, pending before federal
appeals court in Pasadena, Calif., has drawn the attention of
libel specialists because Mr. Newton was awarded $19.2
million in damages by a jury in Las Vegas, Nev., federal
district court in 1986. The judge later reduced the award to
$5.3 million, holding that Mr. Newton's reputation and income
hadn't been harmed as much as the jury had found.
   The case concerns an Oct. 6, 1980, segment on NBC's
evening news titled "Wayne Newton and the Law." Mr. Newton
argued that the NBC report created the impression that he had
received financial assistance from organized-crime figures to
finance the purchase of a hotel. Among other things, he cited
the reporters' failure to include the fact that he received a
bank loan to finance the purchase.
   "If you have hot news and put together a story that leaves
an impression, that's not actionable," says Morton Galane,
Mr. Newton's lawyer. "But they had a long time to work on the
broadcast and must take responsibility for the clear
impression they conveyed."
   Floyd Abrams, a partner with the New York law firm of
Cahill Gordon &amp; Reindel who represents NBC, has asked the
appeals court to rule that public figures can't win a libel
suit based on alleged impressions -- regardless of whether
the journalist intended to convey an innuendo. "The Newton
case is an example of how juries move quickly from the
proposition that an impression was left to the fact that the
reporter must have meant to leave it," Mr. Abrams says.
   He concedes that barring all such suits may mean that some
journalists escape the consequences of irresponsible
behavior. "But there is a major social cost in allowing the
suits to proceed," he says. "It will chill reporting about
public figures and issues of public concern."
   Some suits call into question a news organization's entire
editing process. Joseph Locricchio and Gary Francell, former
owners of the Pine Knob entertainment complex in Clarkston,
Mich., sued the Detroit News in 1980 in state court in Wayne
County, alleging that a series of front-page articles in the
newspaper had left the impression that they were members of
organized crime.
   The plaintiffs said their complaints weren't necessarily
based on specific false statements in the stories. Instead,
they argued that the articles in their entirety -- including
the pictures and headlines -- had left the impression that
they were engaged in criminal conduct. ("Is It Mafia?" the
main headline asked.) They alleged that as a result of the
articles, they were unable to obtain financing and were
forced to file for bankruptcy-court protection.
   In 1985, the jury awarded Mr. Francell $3 million but
awarded nothing to Mr. Locricchio. The case is pending before
the Michigan Supreme Court.
   In another case, Eric A. Foretich, the former husband of
Elizabeth Morgan, recently filed a libel suit against Glamour
magazine and others, alleging that an article about his
widely publicized custody battle left the impression that he
had sexually abused his daughter Hilary.
   Dr. Morgan has claimed that her former husband sexually
abused Hilary, a charge he denies. A judge said the evidence
was inconclusive.
   In his suit, filed last October in federal district court
in Washington, D.C., Dr. Foretich alleges that some
statements in Glamour's November 1988 issue were false and
defamatory. At the heart of the case, says his lawyer, Elaine
Mittleman, is the contention that while "no one comes out and
says he sexually abused his daughter," the article leaves
that impression.
   "Glamour named Dr. Morgan `mother of the year' for
protecting a child from sexual abuse," says Ms. Mittleman.
"Who says that's true? Dr. Morgan hasn't prevailed in court."
   But Roslyn A. Mazer, a partner with the Washington law
firm of Dickstein, Shapiro &amp; Morin and an attorney for
Glamour, says much of the article was based on sworn court
testimony. "To accurately report on what someone said doesn't
create a basis for liability under a false-impression theory
or any other," she says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Sandoz Urged
   To Lower Price
   Of Clozaril
   ---
   Costly Monitoring System
   For Schizophrenia Drug
   Is Criticized at Meeting
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.SAN BAX
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corp. came under fire
from psychiatrists, government officials and mental-health
advocates for the price of its new schizophrenia drug
Clozaril.
   Critics at the American Psychiatric Association meeting
here challenged the company's insistence upon packaging the
drug with an exclusive blood-monitoring system that is
designed to detect a potentially fatal side effect. Including
the system, the drug costs $8,944 a year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I feel like I'm being blackmailed by the company," said
William Reid, medical director for the Texas department of
mental health and mental retardation. The price amounts "to a
ransom for taxpayers," he said, while holding chronic
schizophrenic patients "hostage to their illness."
   Dr. Reid's comments reflect fierce emotions that the drug
has provoked among the mental-health profession since the
U.S. subsidiary of Switzerland's Sandoz Ltd. introduced the
drug here in February. By bundling the drug with the
monitoring system, critics say, Sandoz has priced it out of
reach of desperately ill people who need it most. The
monitoring system is administered by the Caremark subsidiary
of Baxter International Inc., Deerfield, Ill.
   Arguing that the majority of eligible patients are poor
and supported by government welfare programs -- some of which
won't cover the treatment at the current price -- the critics
urged Sandoz to allow alternatives to the system.
   Clozapine, as the drug is known generically, is effective
in treating schizophrenics for whom conventional medicines
have failed. In some cases, patients who were confined for
years in mental hospitals have resumed normal or near-normal
lives on the drug.
   But up to 2% of patients develop a blood disorder that
resulted in 43 deaths in Europe, mostly in the 1970s. Sandoz
maintains that its monitoring system, in which patients
submit to a blood test each week in return for a week's
supply of the drug, is the only way to prevent deaths.
Without its system, Sandoz says, three patients a week could
die from clozapine, and the drug would be pulled from the
market. "The only way patients will {get} access to Clozaril
is through {the Sandoz system}," Gilbert Honigfeld, Sandoz's
director of scientific communications, said at the forum. "We
will not allow patients to die."
   But several psychiatrists and mental-health officials
contended at the forum that the elaborate monitoring system
is an overreaction to the dangers of the drug and that it
duplicates services already provided routinely by doctors and
hospitals for other drugs. They added that less-restrictive
monitoring in European countries -- where the drug costs
$1,000 to $1,500 a year -- hasn't led to widespread
fatalities.
   Laurie Flynn, executive director of the National Alliance
for the Mentally Ill, an advocacy group of about 100,000
patient families, urged Sandoz to reduce the price of
clozapine. But she also said her group has no confidence in
the ability of state mental hospitals to assure the safety of
patients taking the drug.
   One woman who said her son has schizophrenia underscored
the dilemma for many prospective users of the drug. Diagnosed
five years ago, her son was losing muscle control of his
tongue on standard medications. He went to Columbia
Presbyterian Hospital in New York, where the woman, a retired
teacher, agreed to pay for the initial weeks of clozapine,
assuming Medicaid would soon cover it. But New York's
Medicaid program doesn't pay for it yet. "When I found out
about the cost, I was flabbergasted," she said. "I'm being
wiped out emotionally and financially."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LTX Corp. Says Loss
   Shrank in 3rd Period
   From Prior Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LTXX J.SMM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WESTWOOD, Mass. -- LTX Corp. said it expects results for
its third quarter ended April 30 to show a narrower loss than
the $5.1 million, or 52 cents a share, recorded in the second
quarter.
   Graham Miller, chairman and president, said the maker of
semiconductor testing equipment also expects to post "better
revenues," compared with $33.9 million in the second quarter.
If the current trend continues, he said, the company "could
be {at} break-even in two quarters" from now.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the quarter ended April 30, 1989, LTX had a loss of $19
million, or $1.97 a share, on sales of $25.1 million.
   Mr. Miller's remarks came at a news conference to announce
a formal agreement under which Sumitomo Metal Industries
Ltd., Osaka, Japan will pay $12 million for a 49.5% stake in
LTX's Japanese subsidiary. Sumitomo will pay another $12
million for a stake of about 13% in LTX, including 1.5
million common shares and debentures convertible into an
additional 1.5 million shares, at $4.25 a share.
   Mr. Miller said LTX began looking for an established
Japanese partner three years ago, after LTX decided to pursue
the market for testing of digital semiconductors in Japan, a
larger market than that for analog devices, which had been
the company's usual strength. The company didn't have a need
for capital at that time, Mr. Miller said. But he said that
it was "fortuitous" that Sumitomo was able to supply capital
at a time when LTX is trying to recoup from a year of red
ink.
   Shigehiko Hashimoto, general manager of Sumitomo Metal's
new business division, said the investment in LTX represents
part of Sumitomo's effort to diversify into electronics and
other businesses, from its steelmaking base. Sumitomo Metal
had sales of about $8 billion in the year ended March 31,
1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Frankfurt Predicts GNP
   Growth of 3.5% to 4%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- The West German economy grew 2.5% in the
first quarter of 1990 from the fourth quarter of 1989 after
price and seasonal adjustments, the West German Economics
Ministry said.
   The Economics Ministry said in a monthly report released
yesterday that it now sees gross national product (GNP)
growth for the full year of between 3.5% and 4%. That follows
suggestions from Deutsche Bundesbank Vice President Helmut
Schlesinger, who in a speech last Thursday said GNP would
grow by "about 4%" in 1990.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In January, the Economics Ministry forecast that GNP would
grow 3% in 1990. But by March, officials were indicating that
that forecast, made before the proposal to introduce the
Deutsche mark into East Germany, was in need of upward
revision.
   In February, the Economics Ministry said that fourth
quarter GNP grew 1% in the fourth quarter from the third
quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Xerox Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS XRX
</CO>
<LP>
   XEROX Corp. (Stamford, Conn.) -- Robert J. Vairo was named
chairman of Crum &amp; Forster Inc., the Basking Ridge, N.J.,
insurance-holding-company unit of this business-machines and
financial-services concern. Mr. Vairo, 59 years old, is also
president and chief executive officer of the insurance
holding company. He succeeds Melvin Howard, 65, chairman of
Xerox Financial Services, who retired.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Oil Prices Rise Sharply on Supply-Cut Reports,
   With OPEC Output Curb Expected to Have Effect
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Petroleum prices rose sharply on reports of pending supply
cuts.
   May and June projections on crude oil production by the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and in the
North Sea's U.K. sector figured prominently in market
results, as prices jumped as much as 76 cents a barrel.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There were new industry reports of OPEC output cuts --
mainly in the Middle East -- totaling as much as 700,000
barrels a day so far this month, in line with the May 3
agreement. Some trackers of OPEC production questioned the
reported sizes of such reductions. But one authoritative
monitor confirmed that his figures now show OPEC's production
nearing 23 million barrels a day after averaging 23.7 million
barrels, according to his calculations, in April.
   On top of the OPEC reports, meantime, came news that in
June the North Sea's Brent crude oil production and
transportation system will be able to load only about
one-half of its usual monthly volume of more than 30 cargoes.
Reasons for the reduction include both planned and
unscheduled maintenance factors as well as labor problems.
   "The bottom line," said John Hill, a Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
vice president of energy trading, "is that only 16 cargoes
will be loaded."
   Some traders suggested that both the OPEC and North Sea
developments already had been factored into the oil markets.
Still, the developments ignited a rally in crude oil prices
that began in European spot and futures markets and then
spread to the U.S.
   On London's International Petroleum Exchange, Brent blend
crude oil futures closed up between 33 cents and 50 cents a
barrel in heavy trading. On European spot markets, North Sea
crudes were up between 30 cents and 60 cents a barrel.
   In the U.S., Marathon Petroleum and Sun Refining &amp;
Marketing Co. set off what is likely to be a new round of
increases of 75 cents a barrel in field postings for West
Texas Intermediate, the benchmark crude. The refiners' new
WTI posting is $18.50 a barrel.
   On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the June futures
contract for a WTI-like crude increased 76 cents a barrel to
settle at $19.71. Unleaded gasoline and heating oil futures
also were up sharply, as much as 1.57 cents a gallon for some
contracts.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices for platinum and silver
rose, but gold edged lower. July delivery platinum advanced
$3.30 an ounce to $487.20. July silver was up two cents an
ounce to $5.1250. June gold slipped 60 cents an ounce to
$369.90. Although Johnson Matthey, the world's largest
platinum-products company, said in its latest annual review
of the platinum market yesterday that South Africa would
raise its output by 39% over the next five years, its
observation that strikes and violence are expected to cut
that nation's estimates in the next few years stimulated
demand for futures. Yesterday there were reports of a strike
at a small South African platinum mine, analysts said. One
analyst said it created concern that it could be a sign of
further labor unrest in the future. Johnson Matthey said that
the Soviet Union's platinum exports in the first quarter this
year were lower after soaring last year to the highest level
since 1977, and could decline for the year as a whole. As for
gold, there was very little investment demand, "and the
surging stock market didn't help it either," said one
analyst.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices eased on traders' perceptions that
demand for the metal may be easing and supplies growing. The
July contract declined 2.65 cents a pound to $1.15. John
Gross, president of J.E. Gross &amp; Associates, Inc., a
copper-industry consulting firm in New City, N.Y., observed
that brass and rod mill use of copper "is good, but down from
the levels earlier this year." Analysts and dealers estimated
that London Metal Exchange warehouse inventories of copper
today may rise by 4,000 tons to 8,000 tons. Mr. Gross said he
thought those estimates were high, but agreed that people
think supplies are rising. Copper inventories of New York's
Commodity Exchange yesterday rose by 428 tons, to 6,335 tons,
he noted. Mr. Gross also cited the Commodity Exchange's
action last week in increasing margins, or good-faith money,
for transactions in May contracts and the exchange's notice
that it would go to a full price for May contracts next
Monday. The result has been, Mr. Gross said, for the open
interest, or number of May contracts outstanding that remain
to be nullified by either an opposite trade or delivery or a
commodity, to decline significantly. This decline will reduce
concerns over deliveries against the May contract as it
approaches its last trading day on May 29, he said.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Futures prices rose to life-of-contract highs
because of unrest in the Ivory Coast, the world's largest
cocoa producer, and predictions of higher prices by two major
trade firms. The July contract soared $105 a metric ton to
$1,406. At its high during the day, July traded at $1,410,
setting a new life-of-contract high that topped $1,384, set
on April 11. Analysts said troops surrounded the presidential
residence in Abidjan, the capital of the Ivory Coast, and
protested economic conditions. Also, unarmed troops
surrounded the radio station in that city, but later returned
to their barracks, analysts said. Arthur Stevenson, analyst
for Prudential-Bache Securities, said the events were the
latest in turmoil that has plagued that country in the past
three months. Another analyst, Sandra Kaul of Shearson Lehman
Hutton, said two of the world's biggest commodity trade
firms, Salomon Inc.'s Philipp Bros. unit, based in New York,
and Paris-based Sucre et Denrees agreed in separate addresses
at a Paris luncheon on Saturday that prices would rise
significantly and perhaps double. "This caused a real rush of
buying in London and New York, because these firms in the
past have been very much on opposite sides of the market,"
said Ms. Kaul. The reports caused many traders who had
previously sold contracts in anticipation of further price
declines "to panic and buy back their contracts," she said.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS and SOYBEANS: Soybean futures prices slid in a
continuation of Friday's reaction to government figures
predicting an increase in soybean stockpiles for the
1990-1991 crop year. The Agriculture Department pegged
soybean stocks at 355 million bushels for the 1990-1991
period, compared with last season's carry-over of 305 million
bushels. Widespread rain across Midwestern and Southern
growing regions, and predictions for more of the same, also
depressed soybean futures prices. Analysts said they are
worried that farmers, unable at present to plant corn and
cotton in flooded fields, will substitute soybeans for these
crops as their fields dry out. That increase in soybean
acreage would be expected to boost supply and depress prices
in the soybean and soybean futures markets. Most corn is
planted in the Midwest by the end of May, while farmers
typically wait up to a month later to plant soybeans. Soybean
futures for July delivery dropped eight cents a bushel to
$6.3575 a bushel. Wet weather provided modest support to
wheat futures prices on the Chicago Board of Trade as
analysts said that some wheat crops had been damaged by
flooding, and that wheat rust, a disease that can reduce
yields, had been spotted in Oklahoma. Wheat futures prices on
the Kansas City Board of Trade were slightly lower. Corn
futures prices, supported by continued tight supplies, closed
mostly higher, despite the sell-off in the adjacent soybean
futures pit at the Chicago Board of Trade. July corn futures
gained 0.75 cents a bushel to close at $2.9075 a bushel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southland Reports
   $69.4 Million Loss
   For First Quarter
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   SLCPC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Southland Corp. said it had a net loss of $69.4
million in the first quarter after a $52 million tax benefit
related to the sale of a 50% stake in Citgo Petroleum Corp.
   Included in its $121.5 million loss before the tax benefit
was $133.3 million in interest expense.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A year earlier, the convenience store retailer had a net
loss of $169.4 million, including a $56 million charge
related to a debt-exchange offer and $17.3 million in profit
from discontinued operations. The year-ago loss from
continuing operations of $130.7 million included $144.7
million in interest expense.
   Revenue rose about 2% to $1.94 billion from $1.9 billion.
   The company said its average merchandise sales increased
about 3.6% in the quarter, while its merchandise gross
profits rose about 2.5%. Retail gasoline profits declined
2.4%, largely because Southland has fewer outlets this year
than last.
   Southland, which went private in a $4.9 billion leveraged
buy-out in 1987, has proposed swapping its public debt and
selling 75% of its stock to its Japanese partners for $400
million to avert a liquidity crisis and possible bankruptcy
filing. However, its debt-swap proposal already has
encountered heated resistance from bondholders, many of whom
don't want to accept the proposed zero-coupon bonds with
longer maturities for the interest-paying debt they now own.
   Southland said it currently is holding discussions with
bondholders.
   The company also said that its has reduced its senior bank
term loan to $900.4 million from about $2.55 billion when it
went private, and that it has repaid about $399.5 million
this year. It still will owe $12.9 million on June 30 and
$18.8 million on both Sept. 30 and Dec. 31 on that loan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Nintendo Co.:
   Tokyo Firm's Profit Surges
   In Period Ended March 31
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NTD
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Leisure product manufacturer Nintendo Co. reported strong
export sales and a surge in consolidated pretax profit to
67.21 billion yen ($439.7 million) in the seven-month fiscal
period ended March 31.
   A direct comparison to past performance wasn't possible
because of a change in the Tokyo-based company's fiscal year.
Consolidated pretax profit was 69.458 billion yen in fiscal
1988, which ended last Aug. 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Net income in the interim period was 32.929 billion yen,
or 313.81 yen a share, compared with 34.271 billion yen, or
490.07 yen a share, in fiscal 1988. Stock outstanding in the
parent company increased by 34,980 shares in the year.
   Consolidated sales were 240.233 billion yen in the seven
months, compared with 291.200 billion yen in fiscal 1988.
Sales of leisure products, including the company's popular
video software, were 238.031 billion yen, compared with
287.984 billion yen.
   Nintendo also reported pretax profit at the parent company
reached 55,246 billion yen in the seven-month period on the
basis of strong sales growth, particularly in exports. Pretax
profit in the interim period compared with 61.413 billion yen
in fiscal 1988.
   Net income was 27.526 billion yen or 262.31 yen a share
compared with 29.615 billion yen, or 423.32 yen a share.
   Unconsolidated sales totaled 210.042 billion yen, compared
with 250.177 billion yen. Leisure-product sales were 208.450
billion yen, compared with 247.857 billion yen. Exports were
152.879 billion yen, or 72.8% of total sales, compared with
250.177 billion yen, or 73.9% of total sales in fiscal 1988.
   Nintendo forecast consolidated sales for fiscal 1990 would
reach 440 billion yen. Pretax profit is seen at 125 billion
yen and net income at 62 billion yen.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   NINTENDO Co., based in Kyoto, Japan, reported pretax
profit at the parent company of 55.246 billion yen in the
seven-month fiscal period ended March 31. In yesterday's
edition, the profit figure and the city where Nintendo is
based were misstated.
   (WSJ May 16, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Blinder Wins Reversal
   Of Court Limitation
   On Asset Transfers
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   ENTI
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   ENGLEWOOD, Colo. -- Blinder, Robinson &amp; Co. said that the
Third U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals vacated a preliminary
injunction entered against it almost a year ago that limited
the brokerage's ability to transfer assets outside its
ordinary business.
   Blinder is a unit of Intercontinental Enterprises Inc. and
once was the nation's largest penny-stock broker.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The preliminary injunction was granted in May of last year
by a Philadelphia federal judge, who enjoined Blinder from
transferring assets outside of its ordinary business and
prohibited it from transferring funds overseas without
advance notice or court approval. The judge also ordered
Blinder to return funds transferred to overseas bank accounts
to the U.S.
   However, in late May of 1989, the appeals court agreed to
stay the provisions limiting transfers overseas and the
requirement to return assets from overseas.
   The injunction was issued as part of class-action lawsuits
filed by three groups of former Blinder Robinson customers
who are charging the brokerage with securities fraud,
excessive markups on stocks and racketeering. A trial date
for the lawsuit hasn't been set, a Blinder lawyer said.
   Separately, Intercontinental Enterprises said it had a net
loss of $4.5 million, or six cents a share, for its year
ended Jan. 26, compared with a net loss of $9.6 million, or
13 cents a share, in the previous year. Revenue fell about
50%, to $42.1 million in fiscal 1990 from $84.6 million in
fiscal 1989. The company attributed the revenue decline to a
downturn in the securities industry and said the latest-year
loss includes the cost of closing several Blinder Robinson
offices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900515-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900515-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Habsburg Feldman
   Auction of Paintings
   Brings Dismal Results
</HL>
<DATE>
05/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   U.CHR BID
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The first auction of impressionist and modern
paintings of the spring art auction season met with dismal
results.
   Habsburg, Feldman Inc., a small, upstart Geneva-based
auction house saw only about 15% of its paintings sell here
last night.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And while the auction was relativly small in dollar terms,
it set a somber stage for the larger multimillion dollar art
auctions to be held here at Christie's International PLC and
Sotheby's Holdings Inc. later this week.
   Art dealers stress that this first sale wasn't a true test
of the strength of the art market. They contended that unlike
the evening sales later this week, last night's auction was
filled with art works by such weaker painters as Maurice
Utrillo and Maurice de Vlaminck and by some lesser works by
such renowned painters as Claude Monet. Nonetheless, the
percentage of unsold works was almost double that of Habsburg
Feldman's similar sale in November.
   The mood of the room grew increasingly leaden as painting
after painting was passed up by bidders. At one point, to
lighten the mood, auctioneer Archduke Geza von Habsburg
reminded the crowd that bidding was allowed.
   In several cases, in a break with auction tradition,
sellers appeared to have set the minimum price they would
accept at the high end of the presale estimate. That
indicates that the auction house expected much stronger
bidding.
   The top lot of the sale was an oil on canvas of two women
painted by Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It fetched $2.6 million, at
the high end of the presale estimate of $2.3 million to $2.6
million.
   The next major sale will be tonight at Christie's. Up for
bid is Vincent van Gogh's evocative and melancholic
masterpiece "The Portrait of Doctor Gachet." It is estimated
to sell for $40 million or more.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
